ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u1	We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 50, para. 5 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly propose the inclusion of two new points in the weekly programme. The first is the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the establishment of the Fund for the Management of Financial Instruments under the Operational Programmes of the European Union for the period 2014-2020 between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 17 September 2015. The other point: Draft Law on the ratification of the General Agreement between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria on the provision of advisory services on the establishment of the Fund Fund and Manager of the Funds for the implementation of the financial instruments under operational programmes of the European Union for the period from 2014 to 2020. This Decision shall These points shall be examined after the First Voting of the Industrial Property Representatives Bill. Please, honourable Members, vote on this proposal. Vote 128 MPs: 98 against 4, abstention 26. The proposal for the new two points to be included in the programme has been adopted. You know that since yesterday it has been decided that the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Social Assistance Act should be voted today as the first item. This is a postponed vote which has been decided to be voted on today. It's a first-reading bill. So, honourable Members, we are now voting on the bill amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act. Please, honourable Members, voting arrangements. They voted 125 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. I remind you, honourable Members, that yesterday we voted on an opportunity based on art. 50, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to include as a point for today's plenary, respectively, item one for tomorrow's, that is, for today's sitting: TERMINATION OF REPRESENTATIVES OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES. We will now vote on a decision to end the mandates of six MPs, respectively, who have been elected mayors of municipalities. First of all, we have an application from Vyara Mihaylova Tserovska from the 14 election district of Pernik. "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as MP elected in the mandate of the Forty-third National Assembly. I would like to be suspended as a Member of the National Assembly by decision of the National Assembly. Respectfully... ? RESPONSIBILITY? terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends the authority of Vyara Mihailova Tserovska as MPs from 14 electoral district of Pernishki. Please vote on the decision to terminate the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly. Before that, what if there's someone who wants to talk? I won't. We vote on the decision. They voted 122 MPs: 117, against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Congratulations to Mrs. Cerovska, if you could just say congratulations. Following an application from Cornelia Dobreva Marinova, MPs from 11 election district Lovech. The application is identical to what I read about Mrs. Cerovska. I will read the decision that we need to vote on: ? RESPONSIBILITY? terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Aborts the authority of Cornelia Dobreva Marinova as MP from 11 election district of Lovechki. Statements? There aren't any. Honourable Members, we are voting on the decision to terminate Mrs Marinova's credentials. Vote 119 MPs: 112 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB. National Representative Cornelia Marinova is leaving the hall.]] Some colleagues leave the Chamber very quickly, apparently they have a lot of work to do. We'll continue with the next application. Application by Krasimira Peneva Anastasova, MP from the Third Election Region. The application is identical with the previous two. ? RESPONSIBILITY? terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Terminates the authority of Krasimira Peneva Anastasova as MP from the Third Election Region. Honourable Members, we are voting on the draft decision. Vote 127 MPs: 124, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB.]] Since she's not here, I don't see her leaving. [[Laughter]] The next application is from Mr. Darin Ivanov Dimitrov, MP from the Twenty-eighth Election Region. The application is identical with the first one read. ? RESPONSIBILITY? terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends Darin Ivanov Dimitrov's authority as a Member of Parliament from the Twenty-eighth Election Region of Targovishtki. Honourable Members, we are voting on this decision. They voted 122 MPs: 120, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. A round of applause for our colleague Mr. Dimitrov. [[Applause from GERB.]] The next application is from Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov, MP from the Thirtyth Election Region. ? RESPONSIBILITY? terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED He suspended the authority of Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov as a MP from the Thirtyth Election Region. Please vote on the decision to terminate the mandate. They voted 123 MPs: 121, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please give a round of applause for our colleague! [[Applause from GERB.]] The last application for today is from Kiril Andonov Kotev, MP from the First Election Region of Blagoevgrad. ? RESPONSIBILITY? terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends Kiril Andonov Kotev's credentials as MP from the First Election Region of Blagoevgrad. Please, honourable Members, vote. Vote 116 MPs: for 115, against none, abstention 1. [[Applause from GERB.]] Let's wish Mr. Kotev and all our colleagues success who are going to a new field as mayors of municipalities and really achieve the results we expect from them. A round of applause for all our colleagues. Thank you. [[Applause and lines of MPs from GERB and BSP LB.]] Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF THE OWNITY, No 502-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers. I recall that yesterday the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs was read, the report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government is to be heard.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u2	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u3	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I think it was right for someone from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to respect us, to present the Law as it should be. After all, we are a parliamentary republic, and Parliament is above all else in this country. Please take steps according to the regulations, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u5	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mr. Kirilov, procedure, most likely, for admission in the hall, which will also respond to Mr. Genov's request.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I ask for a procedure for the admission of Mrs. Desislava Yordanova to advise the Minister of Regional Development and Mrs. Gergana Blagieva to the Director of Housing Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u7	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. A reverse opinion? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u8	The Minister's coming, that's disrespect.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u9	There's no opposite opinion. I'm putting to the vote a hall pass proposed by Mr. Kirilov. Vote 110 MPs: 90 against 15, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the ladies. We continue with the report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. {\cHFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FF00} under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Floor Property Management, No 502-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 10 September 2015, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Floor Property Management, No 502-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 July 2015. Mrs. Tanya Mileva, Head of the Political Office of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, who presented the bill on behalf of the importer, took part in the Commission meeting. The main objective of the Bill is to amend and supplement separate provisions in the Law on the Management of Floor Property with a view to achieving greater precision in terms of the powers and obligations of the floor property and on the exercise of control in the performance of these obligations. Changes in the duties of the owners regarding maintenance of the building in technical condition are proposed, meeting the basic requirements of the Law on Construction in the Area, as well as bans on construction and assembly works that will worsen the condition of the building. In addition, owners will be obliged to take care of the safe operation of all facilities and installations in the building, not to perform activities in the common areas of the building, including the façade, which violates their integrity and architectural appearance, wearability, the sustainability of the construction, fire safety or the safe use of the building. The powers of the management board (sovereigner) of the floor property and of the owner's association or part of those powers are envisaged to be entrusted to legal entities with a contract for up to two years, allowing the floor ownership or the owner's association to provide the management of the common parts of specialised management companies. A requirement for newly emerging floor property is introduced to select a management board (Manager) within 6 months of the introduction of the building into operation in order to ensure timely management of floor property and to ensure lawful decision-making within the floor property. The amendments will allow the registration of owners' associations for several floor-owned buildings, which are implemented in connection with the construction. On request, a document of the existence or absence of obligations to floor property or to the owner's association may be issued to the owners. It is proposed that, in the event of a change of ownership of an independent establishment, membership in the association should be transferred to the new owner, as for the obligations to the association that have become required before the change of ownership, the old owner will be responsible unless the change of ownership is otherwise agreed. The texts concerning the immediate repair are revised in order to clarify the time limits within which the repair should be carried out. An order is in place to provide access by the owners, as well as if access is refused to carry out the activities related to carrying out the necessary exploration, design, measurement, construction and installation works related to maintenance, repair, reconstruction, reconstruction or renovation of common parts or other premises and to check the status of the installations and the construction elements of the building. In this way, compliance with the provisions of the Law on Construction in the Area is also achieved. The Bill also introduced new administrative criminal provisions regarding the requirement to carry out urgent repairs, and in the event of failure of the Chairman of the Management Board (the Governor) a fine of 500 to 1000 BGN is provided for, respectively, to the mayor of the municipality or the region from 300 to 700 BGN. A fine or penalty for non-compliance shall be provided for in cases where the powers of a management board (manager) are conferred on a natural or legal person who are not owners. During the discussion the MPs supported the proposed changes. Attention was paid to the need to refine and supplement individual provisions relating to the urgent repairs, regulation of certain requirements for the status and activity of persons who may be entrusted with the management of floor property, as well as the precision of the amount of the penalties proposed. The Commission has received an opinion from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, expressing the principle of support to the Bill, while also making some comments and proposals which some of the Members of the National Assembly consider that, in view of their appropriateness, should be taken into account between the two votes. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 9 votes in the House, without the opposition and 2 votes in the House of Ministers, proposed to the National Assembly a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on Floor Property Management, No 502 01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Kotseva. I'm opening the debate on the bill. I would remind you that we are looking at a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Floor Property Management. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Mr. Bayraktarov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the proposed amendments to the Law on Floor Property Management provide for some good things, but unfortunately some not so good things, and there are also obvious gaps that practice has shown that their non-cleaning surrounds the European Consumer Rights Directive. In this context, there is also a letter from the European Commission. What's this about? First of all, the Law does not provide for what happens to dwellings in floor property mode, in which there are already changes of the facade. I hardly need to explain to you that 50 of the apartment blocks in Sofia, Plovdiv, Burgas, Varna have changed facade. What are we doing with these people? Does this mean that they will all be forced to restore the facade in its original form, that is to say they will be charged with enormous costs, or should the Law provide that those house owners in floor property regime should not bear such burdens on their budget from now on? Moreover, I ask: are the proposed amendments to the Law consistent with the Sanitation Program, because somewhere will be damaged the structural nobility of the building. Engineers, constructors say that any hole in panel buildings disrupts their wearability. Therefore, there are things here that are absolutely unthinkable and unpunished. I'm going to another major problem that has been harassing people for years. I don't know if you've paid attention to the fact that the owners of buildings in floor property mode will have to be supplied with the so-called "constructive certificates." However, has anyone ever thought that it costs in the order of several tens of thousands of leva depending on what the square and the cube of the respective residential building is? Who and how will provide these funds to the people? Where are they gonna find them?! What are we going to put them in a state of debt, inserting such texts into the Law on Floor Property Management, and further aggravating the hard life of Bulgarian citizens anyway?! And on this matter, nothing is provided for in the Law. We are now going to the most important part, which concerns millions of Bulgarian citizens in their relations with operators and suppliers of heat. According to the envisaged texts of the Floor Property Management Act, certain powers are conferred on the managers or the Governing Council to conclude contracts on behalf of the floor property. Only then no one gets from the floor property, that is to say the manager, the invoice of the "Toplofication" and the corresponding people get it. I ask: who and how does he want to circumvent the Consumer Rights Directive, the European directive, because the letter from the European Commission, when people seek their rights, answers to them that they are not in contractual relations with the European Parliament for the simple reason that operators had concluded contracts with floor property. Of course, they cannot seek protection from the Bulgarian Commission for Consumer Rights and in this way there is an circumvention and damage of the Bulgarian consumer. Here it must be corrected that the manager, the Management Board of an association, on floor property are not entitled to sign contracts with operators supplying heat. These are private relations and the Bulgarian citizen has the right to be protected and protected when necessary. We can't have people being constantly robbed by these monopolies. These are the main gaps in this Bill, and personally I will make a proposal between first and second readings in it if it is adopted in the first vote in this version. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u13	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. The next speech is from the MP Mr. Manol Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like from this tribune to share my protest that the recurrence of non-defense of this Law is manifest today, as this Law, when it was seen in the Commission, still had no one to answer Mr. Bajraktarov's questions and the level of protection of this Law was extremely low. [[Noise and lines.]] Put in order not to call, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u15	Please, no calls from the gym. Mr. Genov, please get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u16	Throw them out if you have to. Get to the point. This Law reflects the disability of the Programme........................................................................................................ This Law should have been here a long time ago, to be discussed, because now that the problems that this Programme has actually seen, the rules are constantly changing, we have come up with price reference values, but there is no one here to admit it and say it. Can't you see with this Law that representation is being violated? We change the decision-making on very important functions of the Governing Council to be supported by 50 plus 1 and not 67%. What does that mean? We deprive less than half the owners of this floor property of the right to give their opinion. That's what we're doing right now. On behalf of our group, I declare that we will not support this Law at first reading. [[Reply: "Which is your group? "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u17	Thank you. - What's the line? Anyone want a line from the stands? There aren't any. Next speech, Mr. Markov, MP from the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u18	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! There are nice changes in the Law on Floor Property and they correspond to the so-called National Strategy that was mentioned. There are some points to think about. For example, we are limiting block managers to be selected for up to two years. Believe me, there's not a lot of people who want to deal with being house managers, so it's better to set a maximum of four years, and people for as long as they want to, so that they can choose the governors. There is one more moment that impresses the obligations to floor property are required to the old owner of an apartment from the relevant block, and for me the logic must be reversed: one person, when leaving the block, can very hardly find it and take the money owed. It is better for the new owner to be responsible by purchasing the property with the respective liabilities. As for the fact that the facades have been changed, I will allow myself to take account of what Mr. Bayraktarov said. It also now has texts in the Law on Structure in the territory that pursue similar actions that are not consistent with the owners. The Law on Floor Property does not need to be sanctioned or to specify the order in which the facade can be changed. And now it is very clear how to touch the common areas and how to change the facade with the consent of all co-owners. So between first and second reading there will really be serious work on this Law. It is not that serious in fact, but I urge you to support this attempt to optimize the Law on Floor Property.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u19	Thank you, Mr. Markov. - What's the line? There aren't any. Any other speeches? Here you go. Mrs. Tasheva, Parliamentary Group of the Party of Ataka.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u20	I would just like to remind you that as soon as you presented in this hall your absurd National Penalization Program worth 1 billion, we at "Attack" said that this is nothing but a hidden program for taking away people's property and that the Law on Floor Property is yet to change so that the owners of homes in multi-family buildings will fall into unpaid debts and their property will be taken away. It's an old dream of the world's moneylender, the World Bank, who wanted the entrances of the blocks to register as companies to conclude contracts with the monopoly and thus to be bankrupt. I demand that this Law be not passed at first reading, never adopted at all. We will vote against. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u21	- What's the line? There aren't any. Any other speeches? Mr. Atalay, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, perhaps this Bill should have entered as soon as a decision was taken by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of this programme related to energy efficiency. Honourable Members, in the attempt at the moment of first reading to enable citizens to be facilitated in making decisions relating to repairs relating to everything that is happening in the block space and in the bloc itself, I believe that citizens will also support us. There is no way when panel housing is expected to be sanitized, it is expected to make a decision 100% of all who live in this block. There is no way we can walk, so we can adopt certain laws that are unconstitutional, especially what is from the previous years, when we agreed with two thirds to decide what should happen in the residential building, in the residential building. The Constitutional Court then decided that there is no way with two thirds to resolve these issues, but must be solved by 100%. Dear colleagues, when there is already money available and all that we need to arrange at the moment, shaping the management in the building itself with the choice of the manager, from then on making the decision with 50 plus 1% to allow people to be able to do their free energy efficiency analysis, to explain to these people that the removal of vertical bars into the entrance, including all the measuring instruments that will be exported to the entrance itself, thus already every resident, everyone who lives in this apartment will have a reading of the energy received, and today we are against everything we want to do! I, on behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, will support the Bill at first reading with the clear awareness that between first and second reading what Mr. Markov said that certain things need to be clarified. I am convinced that this Law, even if what BSP colleagues have said, is attached to that decision that has been taken in connection with the sanitization, even if only this element to overlap, is still useful. Therefore, honourable Members, I welcome the tabled bill, we will work between first and second readings to amend certain articles and we will support the bill at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u23	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Please, if there are colleagues in the towers, let them be invited. Honourable Members, we are voting on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Floor Property Management, No 502-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers. They voted 107 MPs: 75 against 9, abstention 23. The proposal is adopted by which the bill in question in the first vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECT FOR THE REPRESENTATIVES OF INDROIAL PROPERTY. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 31 August 2015. The bill is aimed at a committee leading the Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism. Another committee is the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. I ask Mrs. Saveklieva from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u24	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to do a procedure first. On the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for Access to the Hall by the Ministry of Economy of Desislava Georgieva, Head of Department of the Department of Technical Harmonization and Consumer Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u25	Thank you. Honourable Members, we are voting on the proposal for admission in this House. Vote 78 MPs: 64 against 8, abstention 6. The Quaestors, please invite the faces and allow them into the Chamber. Continue with the report, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u26	♪ I can't believe under a bill for industrial property representatives, No 502-01-73, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 August 2015. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 7 October 2015, examined and discussed a bill on industrial property representatives, No 502-01-73, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 August 2015. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Economy: Daniela Vezeva Deputy Minister, Desislava Georgieva Head of the Department of Establishment and Services and by the Council of Ministers: Georgi Naydenov Economic Advisor to the Deputy Prime Minister's Office on Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Issues; by the Patent Office Prof. Georgi Naydenov. Kamen Veselinov, Chairman, and David Sukalinski, Vice-President; Bulgarian National Group of the International Association for Intellectual Property Protection: Iveta Borisova, Chairman, and Vasil Pavlov, Vice-President; representatives of social partners and NGOs. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Veseeva. According to the importer, the proposed bill was drawn up in response to the need for a comprehensive regulation of public relations relating to the provision of services by industrial property representatives and as a result of a commitment in response to an inquiry received by the European Commission. The Law establishes a professional organization of industrial property representatives "The Chamber of Industrial Property Representatives." Its structure, organisation and activities are arranged. The bill also sets out in detail the main functions of the Chamber, the rights and obligations of its members, its management bodies, the maintenance of the Register of Industrial Property Representatives. The terms and conditions of acquisition and pursuit of the profession shall be laid down. The activities of the representatives are settled as a.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The profession of industrial property is of public importance as its exercise is related to the provision of specialised assistance in the field of industrial property, which is in certain cases related to the protection of serious economic interests of the owners of these sites. The bill introduces the national framework with regard to industrial property representatives in accordance with European Union law and, in particular, with art. Art. 49, Art. 56 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Directive 2006/123/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 on services in the internal market and Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications. The requirements for the acquisition and termination of the right to exercise the profession are laid down in detail, provisions on the conduct of training and the examination for the acquisition of professional qualifications as well as the terms and conditions for registration in the Register of Industrial Property Representatives. The legislation proposed by the Law reproduces the current regulation laid down by the Ordinance on Industrial Property Representatives adopted by Decree No 137 of the Council of Ministers of 1993. The new moments are: - the obligation of the Chamber to conduct regular training of qualified representatives in order to maintain a high level of professional knowledge and skills; - training of candidates for representatives of the Chamber in partnership with the Patent Office in order to ensure professional training at the required level; - compulsory insurance, professional liability, as required by Directive 2006/123/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 on services in the internal market; - financial and disciplinary liability of representatives and the rules for disciplinary proceedings providing guarantees for compliance with professional ethics and high professional standards in the exercise of the profession. The law fully complies with European Union law and, in particular, with the established principle of freedom to provide services. Directive 2006/123/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 December 2006 on services in the internal market prohibits the introduction into Member States' legislation of discriminatory requirements for providers of services relating to nationality and residence within a specific territory. It is therefore provided for access to the profession of both local persons and representatives engaged in the profession in other Member States of the European Union, in countries of the European Economic Area or in the Swiss Confederation. The regime for permanent provision of services by foreign representatives established for the pursuit of the profession in Bulgaria as well as the regime for temporary or one-off activities in Bulgaria by such persons is arranged. The Draft Law sets out in detail the transitional regime for the exercise and acquisition of the right to exercise the profession until the establishment of the House. There are corresponding amendments to four laws as well as the repeal of the Ordinance on Industrial Property Representatives. In its opinion, the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria supports the Bill in principle by expressing doubts and serious remarks about: the creation of a new word organization and a new regulated profession as a factor for limiting competition in the profession; the lack of assessment of the impact of the proposed Bill; uncertainties in the formulation of the conditions for the exercise of the profession representative on industrial property; the determination of the minimum insurance amount; inexpressibility of the reasons. The Association requests a guarantee against discrimination against those representatives who are not members of the House. The Bulgarian National Group of the International Intellectual Property Protection Association disagrees at key points of the bill. It is considered that the membership of the Chamber's industrial property representatives should be compulsory because otherwise it is nullifying the conversion of the profession into regulated; part of the powers conferred on the President of the Chamber are completely out of control; there is no reason for the professional qualification examinations to be organised by the Patent Office. In the discussion held the representatives of the Patent Office commented that the proposed bill is a step forward in regulating the activities of the representatives of industrial property, which currently have about 600 people. In 14 Member States of the European Union, the issues of representatives are legally regulated under some laws, others by regulations. The Bulgarian Association of Micro-enterprises supported the bill in principle and spoke recommendations on specific texts of the Bill. The representatives of the Ministry of Economy supported the requirement for the free membership of representatives in the House because the opposite would lead to a violation of the principle of competition in the profession. The only condition for the pursuit of the profession should be professional qualifications. The Commission for Protection of Competition has also expressed its view that compulsory membership is a barrier to the exercise of the profession. People's representative Petar Kanev expressed doubts about the need to regulate the activities of representatives by law under the current regulations. After the end of the discussion and vote with results: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly to adopt the Industrial Property Representatives Bill, No 502-01-73, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 August 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Following is a report from the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u28	"COMMODITY" on a bill for industrial property representatives, No 502-01-73, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 August 2015. At its meeting held on 4 November 2015, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined a Bill on Industrial Property Representatives submitted by the Council of Ministers. The following representatives of the Ministry of Economy took part in the Commission meeting: Mrs. Daniela Vezeva Deputy Minister, as well as Mrs. Desislava Georgieva Head of Department The Law aims to regulate public relations in full with regard to the provision of services by industrial property representatives. Furthermore, in relation to inquiries received by the European Commission through the electronic network within the framework of the European Union Project and EU law No 2357/11/MARK of 13 September 2011 and No 4255/12/MARK of 19 February 2013, the Republic of Bulgaria has undertaken to comply with the current legislation with Directive 2006/123/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 on services in the internal market. The Law establishes a professional organisation of industrial property representatives and regulates the structure, organisation and activity in accordance with EU law. In addition, the bill is in line with the Law on Services Activities (PPBs) and the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, which introduce Directive 2006/123/EC respectively on Services in the Internal Market and Directive 2005/36/EC on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications. In addition, the requirements for the acquisition and termination of the right to exercise the profession are laid down in detail, provisions are made for the conduct of training and examination for the acquisition of professional qualifications, as well as the terms and conditions for registration in the Register of Industrial Property Representatives. In this part, the proposed regulation reproduces the current regulation laid down by the Ordinance on Industrial Property Representatives. The bill shall lay down in detail the main functions of the Chamber, the rights and obligations of its members, its management bodies, the maintenance of the Register for Industrial Property Representatives and the entries therein. In this way, the House should ensure a more serious position in its work with national and international industrial property protection authorities. Last but not least, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds has received an opinion from the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which supports the above-mentioned Bill as submitted to the National Assembly. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 10 votes for the Council of Ministers and 3 votes abstentions of the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill on industrial property representatives, No 502-01-73, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 August 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u29	Thank you. On behalf of the importer, is there any desire to argue? I can't see. Statements, honourable colleagues, on the bill? Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Just a few words. I will start by saying that this Law is one of the laws which, above all, waste parliamentary time, because in practice, it does not solve anything. It seems to me that the main purpose of adopting this Law is, firstly, to note that another European Union directive has been introduced into our legislation without any urgency in this matter, by the way, as has also become clear from the opinion of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. The other, I feel that the task of this Law is primarily the creation of this House and possibly the ambition of someone to head it and to be part of the board of directors. I say this because, in practice, the existing regulation regulates this profession sufficiently and it is not clear what are the reasons to go towards such over-regulation of a particular profession. The majority of the Law will see that it is in practice the Statute of the Chamber of Representatives of Industrial Property something that could be arranged in a completely different way. This requirement, I would say, is not quite clear in the light of this Law. We see that there are conflicting opinions of NGOs dealing with this problem. They became clear, above all, from the opinion of the Economic Commission. On the one hand, the question is asked why membership is not mandatory, on the other hand, the other organization asks the question why in practice a form is created in which it is almost mandatory, as art. 60 of the Law provides that the registration of an industrial property representative in the register makes him automatically a member of the House unless he expressly wishes not to be a member of this House. However, this does not make any particular sense either, since, in practice, respecting the principle of non-discrimination, those who are members of the House and those who are not members of the House have in practice the same right to exercise the profession, which is probably correct, but it questions the meaning of the existence of this House, all the more so that it is not given any special rights regarding the regulation of this profession and the Patent Office remains leading. After all, it seems to us that this is perhaps not harmful, but senseless Law and the group of BSP left Bulgaria will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u31	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Please invite the Quaestors if there are any MPs in the couloirs to attempt to vote. Honourable Members, we are voting on a bill for representatives of industrial property, No 502-01-73, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 August 2015. They voted 83 MPs: for 70, against 4, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. We move on to the next bill on the agenda this morning: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. We have reports from four committees. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. Please, Mrs. Saveklieva, read the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u32	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the establishment of the Fund for the Management of Financial Instruments under the Operational Programmes of the European Union 2014-2020 between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 502-02-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 September 2015. At a regular meeting held on 3 November 2015, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the establishment of the Fund for the Management of Financial Instruments under the operational programmes of the European Union for the period 2014-2020 between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed on 14 September 2015 in Sofia. The bill with importer The Council of Ministers was presented by Ms. Karina Karaivanova. The agreement aims at the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to provide advisory services to the Ministry of Finance in connection with the establishment of a structure of the management of the financial instruments under the European Union operational programmes for the period 2014-2020. The agreement is in implementation of a project to be implemented with the financial support of the Operational Programme. Pursuant to the Agreement, the services provided by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development will be expressed in advisory assistance on the following activities: the development of the management structure and control systems of the Fund Manager, including the development of policies relating to the Code of Conduct and Conflict of Interest, the development of procedures to ensure an adequate audit path and backup system, the development of the Fund Manager's organisational structure, the development of a plan to provide adequate human resources with relevant professional and technical skills, including a staff selection procedure, the development of detailed official features for each staff member; support in the development of an investment strategy for the implementation of the financial instruments under the Operational Programme. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held at which the members of the Committee on Budget and Finance expressed their principled support for the so-called draft. Following the discussion of the draft, a vote was followed, which ended with the following results: with 10 votes for a vote, 2 votes against abstentions and 3 votes, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support the first vote Draft for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the establishment of the Fund for the Management of Financial Instruments & under the Operational Programmes of the European Union for the period 2014 - 2020 between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 502-02-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 September 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you go, Mr. Tashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u34	Honourable President, honourable Members, I present to you "COMMODITY" to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the establishment of the Fund for the Management of Financial Instruments under Operational Programmes of the European Union 2014 - 2020 between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 502-02-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 September 2015. At its extraordinary meeting on 30 September 2015, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft for ratification of the Agreement on the Provision of Advisory Services for the Establishment of the Fund for the Management of Financial Instruments under Operational Programmes of the European Union for the period 2014-2020 between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The following representatives of the Ministry of Finance took part in the meeting of the Commission: Ms. Karina Karaivanova-Ganovova Deputy Minister, Mrs. Vanya Stavrova State Expert at the Department of National Fund and Ms. Kremena Yordanova Chief Expert at the same Directorate. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria by this Draft Law is proposed to the National Assembly to ratify by law the above Advisory Services Agreement signed on 14 September 2015. This Agreement aims to provide advisory services to the Ministry of Finance in relation to the establishment of a structure of the management of financial instruments under operational programmes co-financed by the European Union for the 2014-2020 programming period. According to the Agreement, services provided by the Ministry of Interior will be expressed in the advisory aid for the following activities: - developing management structure and control systems of the fund manager; - support in the development of an investment strategy for the implementation of the financial instruments under the Operational Programme (OPHRD); - support in the development of target results and indicators for the implementation of the financial instruments under OPHRD; - support in identifying potential sources of co-financing, etc. Last but not least, it should be borne in mind that the Agreement is in implementation of a project that will be implemented with the financial support of the Operational Programme. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds unanimously proposed by 11 votes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the ratification of the Agreement on Advisory Services for the Establishment of the Fund for the Management of Financial Instruments under Operational Programmes of the European Union for the period 2014 - 2020 between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 502-02-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 September 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u35	Thank you, Mr. Tashkov. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs in summary will present to us Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the establishment of the Fund for the Management of Financial Instruments under the Operational Programmes of the European Union 2014-2020 between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development No 502-02-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers At its meeting held on 24 September 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Bill. The bill was presented by Mrs. Milosheva. It proposed to the National Assembly to ratify the Agreement on the Provision of Consulting Services for the establishment of the Fund for the Management of Financial Instruments under the European Union Operational Programmes for the period 2014-2020. The services provided by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development are related to support in the development of the management and organisational structure, as well as the control systems of the Fund Manager. Support is envisaged in developing investment strategies and identifying potential sources for co-financing of the financial instruments under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development." After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 9 votes for the Council, with no objection to the European Union and 3 votes abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the establishment of the Fund for the Management of Financial Instruments under the Operational Programmes of the European Union for the period 2014 - 2020 between the Ministry of Finance and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 502-02-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 September 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. A summary of the Foreign Policy Committee report will present to us Mrs. Gemma Grozdanova. Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u38	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services establishing the Fund for the Management of Financial Instruments under the operational programmes of the European Union for the period 2014 - 2020 between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 502-02-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 September 2015. At a regular meeting held on 7 October 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the above Agreement. The reasons for the bill were presented by Deputy Minister of Finance Fezi Bekir. The Agreement aims to provide the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development with advisory services to the Ministry of Finance in relation to the establishment of a structure of the management of financial instruments under the European Union operational programmes for the period 2014-2020. The agreement contains financial obligations for the state and provides for its participation in the arbitration settlement of international disputes and is subject to ratification by the National Assembly by law on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 12 votes for the European Union, without the opposite and abstention, proposed by law to the National Assembly to ratify by law the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the establishment of the Fund of Financial Instrument Management Funds under the Operational Programmes of the European Union for the period 2014 - 2020 between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 502-02-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 September 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Colleagues, speeches? I won't. I put to the first vote the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the establishment of the Fund for the Management of Financial Instruments under the Operational Programmes of the European Union for the period 2014 between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Vote 79 MPs: 71 against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Saveklieva procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u40	Dear Madam President, I am making a procedural proposal to consider the Law adopted at first reading at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u41	A reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on Mrs. Saveklieva's proposal. Vote 85 MPs: 73 against 8, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Second reading report, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u42	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the establishment of the Fund for the Management of Financial Instruments under the operational programmes of the European Union for the period 2014-2020 between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development Art. 1. Ratified the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the establishment of the Fund for the Management of Financial Instruments under the operational programmes of the European Union for the period 2014-2020 between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed on 14 September 2015 in Sofia. Art. 2. Gives consent to the agreement under art. 1 shall not be promulgated in the Official Journal. FINAL DISCLOSURE It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u43	Are there any speeches for a second vote? I won't. I put to a vote at second reading discussions on the ratification bill. 90 MPs voted: 77 against 6, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. Reports have been received from the leading Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on European Affairs and European Funds, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The report from the Committee on Budget and Finance will introduce us to Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u44	Dear Madam President, I present: ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the General Agreement between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria on providing advisory services on the establishment of the Fund of Funds and Manager of the Fund for the Implementation of Financial Instruments under Operational Programmes of the European Union for the period 2014-2020, No 502-02-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October This Decision shall At a regular meeting held on 3 November 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft for ratification of the General Agreement between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria on the provision of advisory services on the establishment of the Fund for Funds and the Fund Manager of the Funds for the implementation of the European Union operational programmes for the period 2014-2020, No 502-02-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2015, signed on 1 October 2015 in Sofia. The bill with importer of the Council of Ministers was presented by Ms. Karina Karaivanova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The agreement was signed by both sides during a mission of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on 1 October 2015 in Sofia. The Agreement governs the provision of technical assistance by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the Ministry of Finance in the establishment of a structure of the management of financial instruments under the operational programmes of the European Union for the period 2014-2020. The aim is to ensure the professional and efficient management of funds from the ESI Funds and to use the opportunities of financial instruments to multiply public resources by mobilising a private resource in accordance with European and national law. The agreement contains financial obligations for the State and provides for State participation in the arbitration settlement of international disputes, which is why, in order to enter into force, it is necessary to be ratified by the National Assembly by law on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held at which the members of the Committee on Budget and Finance expressed their principled support for the so-called draft. Following the discussion of the draft, a vote was followed, which ended with the following results: with 10 votes for the resolution of the General Agreement between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria on the provision of advisory services on the establishment of the Fund for Funds Fund for the Implementation of Financial Instruments under Operational Programmes of the European Union for the period 2014-2020, No 502-02-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u45	We will now hear the report from the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Procedure before that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u46	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I am doing a procedure to extend the deadline for the submission of proposals between the first and second voting of the Law on Floor Property Management from 7 days to 14 days, as I have spoken with many colleagues now in the coworkers and indeed there are things that both colleagues from the Reformation Block and other colleagues want us to look closely. Therefore, I ask you to support this procedure - at least another 7 days - to extend the deadline so that the bill can really be well-vised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u47	A counteroffer? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal. Vote 79 MPs: 75 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. The opinion of the Committee on European Affairs.................................................................. the name is repeated by the leading Commission...................................the Commission proposal.................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u48	Opinion on the bill we are currently discussing: At its regular meeting held on 4 November 2015, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the above-mentioned Bill submitted by the Council of Ministers. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposes with 10 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria and 2 votes abstentions to the National Assembly to adopt at first vote the Draft for ratification of the General Agreement between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria for providing advisory services on the establishment of the Fund of Funds and the Fund Manager for the implementation of the financial instruments under the operational programmes of the European Union for the period 2014. No 502-02-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Hubenova. We will now hear the report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u50	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I will introduce you to the First Voting Report on the Draft Discussions: At its meeting held on 28 October 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs examined the Bill. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Ministry of Finance, Ms. Karina Karaivanova. The activities under the Agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development will be financed under the Operational Programme Project. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes for the draft, without abstention and abstention, proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the bill in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u51	Thank you. Report of the Committee on Foreign Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u52	Madam President, a report on the draft law under consideration: After hearing the reasons for the bill, a discussion was held. A vote was held, as a result of which, with 13 votes for the Council of Ministers, 1 vote against the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and 1 vote abstention, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the draft Law on ratification of the General Agreement between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria on the provision of advisory services on the establishment of the Fund for Funds and the Fund Manager of the Funds for the implementation of the financial instruments under the Operational Programmes of the European Union for the period 2014. ? 2020, No 502-02-32.?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u53	Thank you. The debate is open. Mr. Bojinov, come in. [[Noise and lines. Announcements by GERB: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u54	Madam President, honourable committee chairmen who shared the views of your committees here, honourable Members of Parliament, who, with an unexpected irony and a smile, have caused the reports to be cut short, fellow Members of Parliament, we have so formally examined these agreements for a consultative loan... [[Strong noise and lines from GERB. A line from the MP Silvia Hubenova.]] You have something to say, Madam President? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u55	Please, I'm asking the questions here, Mr. Bojinov. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u56	No, no, I'm asking the questions now. I'm in the stands. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u57	Don't call from a place, you're disturbing the good tone and order in this room. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u58	I voted against the previous point, I will vote against it, and on this point not because the means of consulting services are not necessary, not because the consultants of the highest rank are not needed, not because there is no need for optimal solutions to be used for these funds. I am voting against. I am voting against it. I am voting against it. I am voting against it. I am voting against it. I am voting against it. I've been in this room a long time, and I remember what's called a water loan. [[GERB noise and lines]] I remember the millions for consulting services... [[Heckling]] Mrs. Menda Stoyanova is just disturbing me. [[Replicate from the National Representative Snezana Dukova. Loud noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u59	Colleagues, please, no violent reactions from this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u60	I remember the indecently high remuneration of consultants under this contract and the absolutely insignificant result of the water loan. I remember the huge funds of a contract with the World Bank to optimize secondary education and the pathetic conclusions that didn't serve...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u61	Mr. Bojinov, I apologize, but you said yourself that you have been in this room for a very long time. You have many memories of this room. We won't have time for parliamentary control to share all your memories, please. [[Applause from GERB.]] We have control.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u62	Madam President, don't take it so lightly, because time is a cruel judge and some will leave them in this room, others will throw them out irretrievably. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] That's why I want to remind you. It is good that you have provided these funds, it is good to be good consultants, it is good to have the results close to what is necessary, but the control of the spending of these funds is your task and responsibility, Madam President, as one of the majority leaders. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u63	- What's the line? I won't. Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to take part in the first vote of the Bill? I won't. The debate is closed. I am putting to the first vote a bill discussion. Vote 77 MPs: 68 against 6, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Saveklieva, we're listening to your procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u64	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am making a procedure for the second vote on the bill which has just been adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u65	A reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on Mrs. Saveklieva's proposal. Vote 77 MPs: 66 against 8, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Second reading report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u66	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the General Agreement between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria on the provision of advisory services on the establishment of the Fund Fund Fund and Manager of the Funds for the implementation of the financial instruments under the European Union Operational Programmes for the period 2014-2020. Art. 1. It ratifies the General Agreement between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria on the provision of advisory services on the establishment of the Fund of Funds and Manager of the Fund for the Implementation of Financial Instruments under Operational Programmes of the European Union for the period 2014-2020, signed on 1 October 2015 in Sofia. Art. 2. Grants consent to the Agreement under art. 1 shall not be promulgated in the Official Journal. FINAL DISCLOSURE It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u67	Second-reading speeches? I won't. I'm putting the bill to a second vote. Vote 80 MPs: 71, against 5, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. I declare a recess until 11:00, then we continue with Parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u68	Honourable Members, the sitting continues with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period 30 October 2015 "November 5, 2015" Written answers to service: - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to two questions from the MP Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on three issues from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to two questions from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to three questions from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to six questions by the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on two issues by the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - from the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to two questions by the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to two questions from the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - by the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - from the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to a question from the National Representative Ivan Kirilov Ivanov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova; - from the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev to a question from the National Representative Vasil Antonov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Tanev; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev on a question from the National Representative Manol Genov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Valentin Vassilev; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the National Representative Miho Mihov; - from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to a question from the National Representative Petar Ivanov Petrov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Petya Avramova; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Petya Avramova; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovalyski; - from the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreyev; - by the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreev. First in today's parliamentary control will respond to Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Issues. A question will be developed by Mr. Georgi Bojinov on the analysis of the risks, benefits and impact on the small and medium business in Bulgaria since the signing of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Agreement between the US and the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, Vice Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My question is a continuation of our long-standing debate with you on this subject. To my question a long time ago, you from this tribune answered that you share my concerns about small and medium-sized businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises and the need for a very deep analysis. You pointed out then that the economy has taken up this job and that you hope it will soon have an effect on its efforts. Now, knowing fully that this task is being carried out by the Ministry of Economy, I am asking you,.. the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs, today's question: what is the result of this effort of the Ministry of Economy? Because the milestones of the negotiations are located in Brussels, are under particular secrecy and restricted access, people who have access to these results are a finite number, that is to say they are comprehensive, and my question is: how is this matter institutionally settled, the circle of Bulgarian experts who will analyse the risks, consequences and possible benefits of this agreement communicating with this information centre where there is limited access? Because if there is no real information, if there are no trends what one side wants and how the other side responds, I do not say what is agreed, because there is nothing agreed yet, then the forecasts will be false, and the conclusions will be unfounded. This is my question to the institutional side.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u70	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Here you are, Mrs. Kuneva, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u71	Dear Mr. Bojinov, I am really glad that we are continuing this conversation with you and you are keeping your interest. That's exactly how it's supposed to be. Frankly, I feel a certain lack of interest in the major European topics in our society, and every time someone provokes them, I am grateful for that. In the case that you are quoting on the transparency of the TTIP negotiations, let us briefly call it that, the whole burden is currently being redirected to the European Parliament. In the European Parliament, your party has not only a number of MPs who can express your ideology and opinion, but also the President of the Party of European Socialists Mr. Stanishev. With regard to transparency, where the dialogue is really taking place at the moment, I hope that you and we are all fully secure with the Bulgarian 18 MPs who are actively involved in these talks. On the transparency of the TTIP negotiations. A large part of 2015 can really be consulted on the Internet, I say. We can open the page in a moment and see what we're talking about. Part of the other TTIP texts are available for consultations intended solely for reading rooms which are housed in the European Commission's building for staff from Member States. In the building of the European Parliament, which I have just spoken about, about its members, there is information on the so-called draft consolidated texts on TTIP. Readable for consolidated texts on TTIP were revealed in the US embassies and in the capitals of the Member States. The Ministry of Economy made a move before the US Embassy in Sofia to provide access to members of the TTIP working group according to the areas of competence. Access has been confirmed by the United States. Now what you're asking me about small and medium-sized enterprises is what we've established so far. Key obstacles to the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in transatlantic trade: difficulty to participate in distribution channels; difficulty to meet US requirements and standards, especially in cases where they differ from the European Union, such as quality and safety requirements for food, manufacturing practices in the pharmaceutical sector, conformity assessment, certified inspections in the chemical sector, labelling and textile standards and so on. They are often required to provide really too detailed information, for example, on the origin of goods and to navigate in the complex structure of customs duties and complex rules of origin. They are uneven on the American market, where they should compete in the presence of government subsidies, special rights and preferences for American companies and products. Imports should comply with strict security requirements involving 100% scanning of consignments. This increases the cost of crossing borders and prolongs the processing of goods. There are a number of restrictions in the movement of people. There are visa requirements, period of residence, licensing requirements, non-recognizion of qualifications. Another problem is the lack of protection for geographical indications and differences in the patent systems of the European Union and the United States and the requirements for insurance against claims of customers and consumers who have a deterrent and limiting effect. These obstacles do not arise from government policy and are not the subject of TTIP entirely, but most of them are, and we attack them, we find a solution through TTIP negotiations. The expected benefits of the conclusion of the agreement are actually an analysis of the benefits and damages. I list: improving the quality of production; ensuring improved access to the market for services; facilitating trade and concomitant reduction of unnecessary costs; legal certainty and transparency; developing cross-sector relationships; participation in public-private partnerships; detailed access to legal agreements. Sorry, there's 24 benefits. I'll give you what the experts have prepared and you can take the attitude. Specifically, what's going on at the Ministry of Economy? There is an interdepartmental working group established, which is quite large in number of the 73 representatives of the administration, most of which are from the Council of Ministers. This is what I can tell you about European policy in this area. Otherwise, I agree with you that the Ministry of Economy can provide more and more detailed information. Thank you again for the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. Mr. Bojinov, come in for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u73	Dear Mrs. Kuneva, thank you very much for this answer. Firstly, as far as my information is concerned, I am grateful to my fellow party representatives in the European Parliament. I want to tell you that I am not only informed by them, but I am basically an informed person. As you stress in your previous answer, my feeling is worrying about the expectations and consequences for the Bulgarian business, and you say that you share my concern in the answer you give me. That is not the point, however. The point is that in this numerous expert group that works, our society is calm, Bulgarian business is idle, and in Germany only two months ago more than 350,000 small and medium-sized companies on the streets came out. I don't believe they're not informed that some illusory public opinion has been formed. They were worried about the consequences. Therefore, I call on the people who are authorized by the Bulgarian side to analyse the risks and consequences, to be well informed, to be accountable to the interests of Bulgaria and to inform the public opinion, not tendentially, but objectively. That's the point of my asking. I see in your response kindness to work in this direction. Let it happen, so that we are not surprised and wronged in time. That is the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u74	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Mrs. Kuneva, come and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u75	Mr. Bozhinov, when we had a conversation with you last time, what really bothered us had not yet happened. Unfortunately, on 28 October this year, the European Parliament rejected the European Commission's proposal to introduce an opportunity to restrict or prohibit the sale and use in its territory of genetically modified food or feed approved by the European Union. This we have identified as a problem, but this is in the European Parliament! Whatever we say as a member state, we'll say. We have an opinion on this. You know that we are all united here in both government and parliament. We will say this in the Council, but whether we will be able to reverse the opinion, since the European Parliament has so certainly supported the presence of genetically modified organisms, if it is adopted, to be for the whole of the European Union, whether one of the member states can make enough critical mass together with other countries to re-examine this proposal, I cannot take responsibility here solely on behalf of Bulgaria. You know that we have ten votes in the Council. Otherwise, I absolutely agree with you that you need to talk more about TTIP. What we can do, if you want, to organise a conference, to discuss with the help of the business and NGOs is important to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u76	I thank Mrs Kuneva, Vice Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Issues, for her participation in today's Parliamentary Control. Two questions will be answered by Mr. Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance. The first question is from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov on informing the public about the results of the report of the investigative international company on the bankruptcy of Corporate Commercial Bank. Mr. Dimitrov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! You know how much the Reformation bloc insisted that there should be an international investigation into KTB. This is the biggest drain of the Bulgarian budget in our new history. That's why he has to have responsibility! According to the data of the Minister of Finance at the end of September 2015, the company "Alix Partners" should have prepared a report to be submitted to the Syndicates and through them to the Minister of Finance. Mr. Minister, you should have it. Our insistence we organized a petition of most parliamentary groups, it will be presented to you by me, including a signed representative of the GERB group, is that this report will become public. We don't want all the details right away. I'm sure you'll answer that there may be an investigative secret, that something might interfere with the investigation that's being conducted, we understand these things. We want at least the list of persons involved and companies involved immediately. And who's involved with what, let's pass the investigation, let these people take responsibility, let them be persecuted and then also become public. But first let's see these people! Imagine, you must know a lot more than I do, for example, that there are politicians, MPs who are involved in this case and continue to make decisions about banks. Imagine that there are representatives of the judiciary who are involved in this case and take decisions on cases that concern the Bulgarian banks! Imagine that there are influential people in the Bulgarian society who are involved in the case CTB and continue to stand there, to make important decisions, to influence society and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u78	Mr. Dimitrov, your question?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u79	My question to you, Minister, is this. I give you the signature and at least we insist that the information about the persons involved become public companies and people. And the other one after the investigation is over.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u80	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Minister Goranov, please come in for your answer if you have a petition.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u81	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Dimitrov, The project of a report which summarizes the work of "Alix Partners" was provided at the end of September 2015, according to the contract concluded between Corporate Commercial Bank in insolvency and "Alix Partners Services." It is subject to analysis and discussion by the CCB Syndicates, aimed at achieving the maximums of the interests of creditors at the bankruptcy table. At the moment, the draft report is not definitively agreed between the parties. It aims to assist the activities of the CCB Syndicates in the performance of their duties and its public disclosure would for the time being make their work difficult. The disclosure of the conclusions of the final report at such a stage poses a risk for CCB debtors to organise their protection or to take action to delay or thwart the completion of the insolvency table, which would jeopardise the interests of CCB creditors. On the other hand, the expectations that the public report is loaded and what the contract provides for between Alix Partners and KTB AD in bankruptcy, explicitly provide for a clause on confidentiality of the report. The provision of the final report to the National Assembly and the Bulgarian public would lead to breach of the contractual obligations of the CCB. Such a breach is linked to clauses and penalties which will further lead to the damage of CCB creditors. With regard to the request for the submission of the report in the Secret Section of the National Assembly, as contained in your question and proposal, it should be borne in mind that the report by "Alix Partners Service" does not represent classified information within the meaning of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information and, in this sense, cannot be provided and stored in the Secret Section of the National Assembly. In order to continue, as our goal is the same, I could comment on the following: at the moment when there is final approval of the report by the Syndicates, who are beneficiaries of the contract between I remain available outside the parliamentary debate and outside the form of parliamentary control with you to assess, and in contact with KTB's syndics, how to structure the information so that we can really bring something out of the Bulgarian society. What I would like to inform you, however, is that I do not have this report at the moment, because, again, it is not definitively finalized as a position between the syndics of KTB and Alix partners. And they have fulfilled their commitment to provide it to the Syndicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u82	Thank you, Minister Goranov. In the right of a reply please, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I will not hide, me and my colleague Dimitrov worried us what we hear about this confidentiality clause. It certainly seems to me that until now, if action could have been taken to secure the property which can be returned to the Ptrimonium of KTB, they should have already been taken. That is, reasoning on the subject that this could possibly interfere with the investigation and the return of property seems to me that a long time has passed and would not be relevant. These actions should have been taken a long time ago. You and I have commented on another matter. You said how many lawsuits and how many insurance proceedings were in motion and they should have already been imposed, so the property must be secured. It seems to me that for Bulgarian citizens the moral aspect of the issue is of great importance and for this reason we are putting it. Bulgarian citizens really want to know who robbed them. If, after all, the entire property does not return, as we hope, then at least let us know who really was the author of this huge robbery and who is involved in it.............. which politicians, who have influence in society are involved and practically drained the Bank and took advantage of their public situation? That is what Bulgarian citizens want to know, and that is why we are putting this issue. It would be interesting to know whether Alix Partners is involved in the collection of this property itself, in the recovery of this property, or whether you will seek in the form of an additional contract with them a commitment not only to indicate which persons are involved and participated, but also to assist the recovery process back in the Ptrimonium of KTB, so that they can be used to repay the debts to the State, and to all the creditors of the Bank, including the impaired depositors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u84	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the right to the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u85	To be clear that we are talking about the same thing, I fully share the need for all individuals who, for one reason or another, directly or indirectly, are involved in the bankruptcy of KTB. What I can offer you as an operational solution, if you agree, with my and with your participation, to you as MPs, to organise a meeting with the Syndicates of KTB and to assess how we can structure the information, what information we can structure to tell and show it to the Bulgarian society, as you yourselves realize that regardless of the huge public interest, in this case we are talking about a bankruptcy process that runs under the Law on Bankruptcy and is essentially a process outside the direct public activity of individual state authorities. This is a commercial bankruptcy, albeit a bank, which is more specific and the involvement in these relations can and should be only within the framework of the legislation in force. Therefore, I suggest that, at a time when you decide, we organise and implement a meeting with the Syndicate, if necessary with the Alix partners. In order to assess within the framework of the Treaty between the Bank in bankruptcy and the Company, how we can structure the information and bring it to the public, because here the interests of everyone coincide.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u86	Thank you, Minister Goranov. Second question from the same MPs from the Reformation Bloc "Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov," concerning the obligation of the Ministry of Finance to request a notification from the European Commission for the introduction of measuring instruments under the Law on excises and tax warehouses. Here you are, Mr. Slavov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, such a question has been asked to you at the end of last year. I made a reference to this December, and in fact the question was very relevant then, because the possibility of putting these measuring instruments was introduced on our proposal in the Law, but the notification was waiting. I take once again the opportunity to put your attention to the matter, given that a long time has passed, and I hope there will be progress on this subject. In amending the Law on excises and tax warehouses, the Forty-third National Assembly, at the beginning of its term of office, provided for the installation of measuring instruments for controls in production plants for cigarettes and alcohol. However, for the entry into force of these provisions, it is necessary for the Ministry of Finance to send a notification to the European Commission and to obtain appropriate agreement. For reasons unknown to us, however, for more than 10 months, such a notification has not yet been requested and this hinders the introduction of the new stricter control. In this sense, I ask you to respond, Minister, at what stage of preparation and dispatch is the request for a notification from the European Commission for the installation of measuring instruments for control over the producers of cigarettes and alcohol in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u88	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Here you are, Minister Goranov, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u89	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Slavov, Mr. Dimitrov, Directive 98/34 EC provides for a notification system allowing Member States and the Commission to verify the conformity of notified draft legislation with European Union legislation and includes two stages: notification of the draft regulatory act introducing the requirements which constitute a technical regulation within the meaning of the Directive. And the second stage of the amendment of the technical regulation in the event of non-compliance with European Union law. In the present case, the amendments adopted at the end of 2014 to the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses in respect of measuring and control means constitute technical regulations and must also be notified before their adoption. The notification procedure is specific and differs from the standard notification procedure before the European Commission as it requires mutual recognition of technical regulations by all Member States. The Ministry of Finance has completed the notification form sent by the Ministry of Economy, detailing the means of measurement and control, which are complex systems involving software measuring and development devices. Such systems are not standardised either at European Union level or at national level and they need to be detailed in order to enable the European Commission and the Member States to assess their impact on economic operators within the Union. I would like to recall that the meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance held at the beginning of December 2014 in the course of the adoption of a second vote on the legal provisions of the Law on excises and tax warehouses was found to be necessary before the notification was made to make a broad public discussion with all interested parties, which is ongoing repeatedly within the Ministry of Finance, including MPs. Of course, it is not your job to do the work of the executive administration. However, the problem before us, in order to be able to finalise the notification, comes purely objectively from the fact that the directive on which we have been working so far for the introduction of the technical regulation has been repealed. It was canceled at the beginning of October 2015. We are yet with the Ministry of Economy to consult on the new mechanism for notification of this procedure. I agree with you that we have taken a long time in this regard, but we must also accept objectively that we are talking about the introduction of technical means which will have to be adopted and applied throughout the European Union. The repeal of the directive has made our work very difficult. That is the answer I can give you on this issue today.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u90	Thank you, Minister Goranov. Right on the line, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u91	Dear Minister, to put it simply, the situation is as follows: we are behind your efforts and efforts by the government to combat smuggling, which have already resulted, only with regard to alcohol and cigarettes, these results are the result of the physical presence of people from the Customs Agency in manufacturing enterprises. This cannot go on permanently because it requires a huge human resource, so we want measuring instruments of producers of alcohol and cigarettes and we have recorded it in the law "the ruling coalition." The problem is that ten months later it wasn't introduced. I suggest the following: if there is so much uncertainty about the change in European regulation, why not introduce the appliances first and then work on their notification. Such examples have been in our new history, because at ten months' delay, we are worried about the following idea, with the reduction of physical control by the Customs Agency, that these good results that we achieved at the beginning of the year in terms of control are not so bad. Therefore, either we need to reach the agreement of the European Commission as quickly as possible or, if there is a vacuum that you see with the repeal of the directive, it would mean that we can install the appliances and then work if their notification is already needed, that is to say, the simple consent of the European Commission to them, but we need appliances. Without these appliances, we will have problems with the strict control that was introduced and which has it in Bulgaria to be continued and to be as effective as it has been before. You know that for other series there are appliances and they give very good results, account for real time, and what has entered, and what has come out of the given production company. This is what we need in the most urgent order for cigarettes and alcohol. So can you commit yourself to answering the question whether these appliances will be installed by the end of the year, as I remind you that in the Law there is a six-month term............................. of the European Commission, then we wait six months, then we install the appliances? If we walk in this horizon, we risk not being there in 2016. Think about it! That is, not to end up so that, in the mandate of this ruling majority, we fail to install them. That's what's bothering us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u92	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. You're giving up the right to the doppelganger. Thank you to Mr. Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, for participating in today's parliamentary control. Three questions will be answered by Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The first question is from the MP from the ABB General. Miho Dimitrov Mihov on the need to rehabilitate road infrastructure in the region of Strandzha Mountain in order to improve the conditions for tourism. General Mihov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u93	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, Members of the National Assembly! As MP from the Second Multiannual Election Region, Burgas is convinced that the failure of the summer tourist season is largely determined by the state of the road infrastructure at local level. This fact not only does not result in compensation for the tide of Russian tourists with those from neighbouring countries. Turkey, Macedonia, Serbia and Romania, but also worsens communication with their citizens and the quality of life of ours in border regions. This is the example of the state of the roads in the Strandzha region, which permanently leads to the diversion of the passenger and cargo flow towards Edirne.. Istanbul also worsens the conditions for agriculture and logging. Not only the indigenous population, but also citizens from all over the country who cannot support and visit cultural and historical sites and participate in traditional ethnographic national congregations in order to develop rural tourism. Due to these circumstances, my question is: in order to improve the communication and conditions for tourism in the Black Sea area, is Strandzha Mountain planned in the direction of you, Minister, Ministry and your subordinate agency rehabilitation of the road Malko Tarnovo, Tsarevo 56 km long and the road of Bosnia Vizitsa 25 km long? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. Minister Pavlova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mihov, regarding the roads in the Burgas region, I would like to say that I cannot definitely accept your claim that the road infrastructure problem is precisely in the Burgas region that has created a problem and in some way can be justified, say, the lower tourist flow on the Black Sea coast. Why do I say that? I submit that, after the completion of the entire highway, we have an enormous increase in the number of these trips and an exceptional increase in the number of tourists in the Southern Black Sea coast precisely because of the presence of a highway. Speaking specifically about the local roads in the region of Burgas and our Black Sea resorts in the southern part of our Black Sea coast, I would like to remind you, you know very well as the people's representative, I am sure of this area that the road Burgas What we have done is something that has been waiting for since, I would say, many years, this is finishing the tour of Malko Tarnovo, thanks to which this transit traffic is no longer entering and no longer passing into the city, does not endanger those living and we have already fully completed, and since October a bypass route has been put into operation, so the transit traffic that we are talking about is not damaged. On the contrary, it was also helped by the population. Resorts in the direction from Burgas to Ahtopol were also rehabilitated. I recall the rehab at Tsarevo, the infamous road of mirrors, where two cars couldn't get away without hitting their mirrors. It was repaired and expanded. So in order to tourism and to develop and support living and working in this region, I think the roads have been fixed. They are financed and are in a good and satisfactory state. Regarding the road you are asking about, they are two roads, one is the third-class road through several settlements, which is 25 kilometers. Yes, indeed, it is a third-rate road in bad condition, but it does not affect the development of tourism, which you are talking about. Of course, people live in these settlements, and we do our best with the means available along the line of current repairs to mend these roads. But the investment for the overall rehabilitation of this road would be over 20 million. BGN, and we unfortunately do not have such funds. Therefore, it cannot be fully repaired at this stage. What we're doing is partially patching the pavement. For the next time, we are talking about the connection of Malko Tarnovo with Tsarevo, also an internal way of connecting people living in this region. This time it's important and we realize its importance. It's 56 kilometers, but let's tell the truth about why he's in bad shape. Because the wooden mafia is the one who made sure this time he was in the condition we see him in. We all know what they're doing with overcrowded trucks with heavy-weight trucks making their way through, burying our trenches and ditches so that these illegally loaded trucks can get into this road, using it, not paying any corresponding values for these crossings, and mostly ruining the road. The condition of the road is precisely because of these trucks. We're doing the best we can. The funds needed to be fully repaired this time are 28 million. BGN, because its foundation must be completely replaced, completely rehabilitated and repaired. What we have planned next year in the budget is to make a complete design in order to have a good and quality project, and when the budget has the opportunity to finance this rehabilitation as well. In parallel, action must be taken for those who use it illegally and do all that thanks to which the road is in this state.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u96	Thank you for your answer, Minister Pavlova. Right to the line, General Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Gentlemen! I'm partially satisfied with your response to your intentions. The first part of the answer brings me back to the past, which is positive. It is a good thing that we did not get to the period "Strandzha " Sakar, but in any case the road Malko Tarnovo "Tsarevo" according to local residents is very important in terms of the direction of the tourist flow from Turkey and coordination of the flow from Romania. Local citizens, which I emphasise, share the need for this rehabilitation. From your response, I understand that the intentions of the Agency and of you are in a positive direction. As far as destroyers are concerned, we're all talking about the wooden mafia, but this is a state problem. I think if it's about legislation, let's settle it. Visible by your colleagues in the Council of Ministers, we must fight this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u98	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Right on the back. You're turning out to be. The next question is from the Vice-President of the National Assembly and MP from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center Mr. Yavor Iliev Haytov about a section of road II-13, village of Devene. Here you are, dear Mr. Haytov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, we MPs from different regions of the country are normal to be excited about the state of the road sections in the different regions where we are elected. Colleague Mihov asked a question about the area where he was elected. In a little while Mr. Hristov will ask about the Ruse region, but I, as elected MP from 6.Multimate Vrachanski region, have always taken the liberty to engage your attention with the sharp problems that have road sections in the various terrains and the necessary care that you should give to this region. I'm going to ask you about the state of a small short section.. Road II-13, which is located between Montana, Krivodol, village of Devene, Borovan, Byala Slatina, near the border with the district of Pleven. This time, Madam Minister, it has been repaired and is in good operational condition. But there is a small section of it about 2 km long, which passes through the village of Devene, Vratsa municipality. This small section of the road, according to local people's claim, has not been repaired for more than 30 years. But that's not the main problem either. The main problem is that this road passes through the settlement and heavy trucks that pass through the village practically destroy people's houses. From the constant vibrations the houses are damaged, cracked, and all this attracts immense costs of the population, and the feeling of people that hardly Né live on a Japanese island where you know earthquakes are everyday. After many meetings and talks with local people, as well as with administrative leaders of different units in the territory of Vratsa district, I realized that there was a project for making the road around the village of Devene. My specific question to you is: what are the opportunities to make this bypass? Are there any other options that you would suggest in order to remove traffic passing through the village of Devene to stop the destruction of the houses and the auxiliary buildings of the people who live in this picturesque Vrachan village?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u100	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Minister Pavlova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Haytov! An undeniable fact is the need to update and change the approach when planning our investments to repair and rehabilitate the road network. What do I mean? Although General Mihov said a moment ago that I was going back in time and history, but we have to go back and remember that overall planning of roads and their construction was done through the settlements. Of course, it is a way and a pattern of traffic. He has to go from a populated area to a populated area. Now, as technology increases, as the number of vehicles increases, it is evident that the connection between small settlements must pass through the centers of these settlements, but where there is heavy traffic, it must be taken out of the cities via bypass routes. That's the reason. You know well that in this particular region we have made a tour of the town of Vratsa, the roundabout of Montana is finished, so that less heavy traffic can be taken out of the settlements, and then, by finishing the country's highway ring, to be uploaded to the motorways and thus to ease the smaller class of roads on which to pass the lighter vehicles. It'll put people's lives less at risk. Both in large settlements and in settlements such as the village of Devene, they need support and funding. In the long term, this must be planned because it requires a huge financial resource. You correctly said that this time it was repaired and rehabilitated in most part with an investment of over 10 million. lv. under Operational Programme "Regional Development" for the repair of this 19km road. Another 21 kilometers of roads in the district have been rehabilitated under the Transit Roads Programme of more than 28 million. lv. We're making an effort. The tour of the village of Devene was not included in the renovations then, at that time at the time of 2007-2009, when they were planned. Then his condition was relatively satisfactory. There was no need for such repairs. At least that's what we see in the archives and why this section is not included specifically. Another question is, as you said, there is an old 2003 project for a tour of the village of Devene. It is not up to date, but can always be updated when financial resources are available. A plot must also be made, the necessary alienations should be carried out, and this time it could be done. Its value, although not yet updated, is about 3.5 million on the project. BGN, according to our information. After an update it can be changed. What we can do at this stage is to plan funds for the update of the project and forward in the years when providing financial resources to carry out the activities on the implementation of the surrounding route of the village of Devene, as well as the other settlements where we have similar, unfortunately, problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u102	Thank you, Minister Pavlova. Here you are, Mr. Haytov, for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I am not pleased with this answer. I realize that you work in extreme financial shortages, a flaw, but put yourself in our place. We're talking about 60 or 70 houses. I circled the place, met the people. They are cracked, agricultural buildings are impossible to inhabit and must do something urgent, albeit partially, albeit not completely in the way we all want to, but again I tell you, by passing through heavy cars, which in most part are perhaps overloaded what you said a little while ago, is probably up to date for this section, and for this region, but indeed these houses are becoming less and less fit to live in, and the people who live in these houses, unfortunately, do not have financial resources to make cardinal repairs so that they can live in a normal way. I'm getting into a situation that may not be in place to say with irony that they really live like on a Japanese island, which is not normal. It's not normal! I would really like to ask you to pay attention as a whole to this region and to these sections, as you promised about a year ago that the road in Vratsa village of Zgorigrad will begin, Ledenika to be completely renovated, mainly, so that the area of Ledenica will also be a major tourist site in the territory of Vratsa region, such as, unfortunately, it is not currently because of the bad path to the cave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u104	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. The right to the doppelganger? You don't want to. The next question is from the National Representative of the Reformation Block Rumen Dimitrov Hristov on the possibility of building a bypass in the town of Byala, Ruse district. Here you are, dear Mr. Hristov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! You remember that about a year ago, representatives from the Nineteenth Multi-Multimate Election Region of Ruse were at a meeting with you, together with the Head of the Railway Infrastructure Agency, Mr. Lazarov, where we discussed the possibility of a solution to the issue related to the extremely bad famed road and called the road killer Ruse. In this regard, I would like to say that what we have seen in recent months is even more worrying, because the deaths are increasing, the serious accidents on this stretch of the road are continuing. That's very disturbing. I would like to ask: what are the steps taken by you to complete the design we talked about when we were with you? Has the construction of this so-called roundabout route started, which will allow to avoid the most dangerous stretch of the route near the town of Byala? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u106	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Minister Pavlova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Hristov, I confirm as we discussed with you and with all MPs from Ruse multi-mandated electoral district at the meeting a year ago that for us is an extremely important priority the design and construction of a new route of the section from Ruse to Veliko Tarnovo. Of course, and with a special focus on the White Road section, which is not only extremely loaded, but, unfortunately, it is also one of the sections of the territory of the whole country with the most victims of the road. Literally every day we have traffic accidents on this route. That is why we are thinking about a cardinal solution, including a new route. What have we done? We conducted a procedure and we chose a contractor to design a whole new route in a highway gauge for the entire section of Ruse from the industrial area of Ruse, to the connection not only with Veliko Tarnovo, but also a little further down, where is the link with the Republic Pass, with Hainboaz and respectively the link to Gabrovo, as this is also the main direction in which this extremely large traffic flows, especially heavy traffic. The contract concluded provides for two stages. One stage is the idea design itself, which needs to consider three options of a route to pass. Since the area is complex, especially with Byala we have a rocky area, so that it will be a combination of a road trip of Ruse, a continuation of a new route with which Ruse's journey will most likely be from the eastern part and then to go along a new route, to surround the whole far town of Byala, to make a long journey along the western part of the town of Byala, to pass most likely through a tunnel and down through several road nodes to make connections with the future highway, to Veliko Tarnovo and further down a major road node to untie the movement in the direction of Hainboaz and Gabrovo. The designers are also working by March at the latest, if they meet their deadline, we will have the idea design, the analysis of the options and the best chosen route, and then, as the law requires, we must go through the entire major environmental impact assessment procedure. I can't tell there how long. You know that there are public discussions about the chosen route, so that we can approve the parcel plan, make the alienations and begin the realization of the project. I can assure you that we have now assigned the designers to work on this route so that this section can be divided into a minimum of three lots, so that we can allocate a lot specifically to Byala, as we talked back then, and I made this commitment. If we need and depending on the funding to start with it as a priority, to take traffic to this particular critical one, I would say, the most critical point of so many catastrophes and transport accidents. From there, of course, to complete the implementation of the project in its entirety. Its total length will be about 118 miles, the estimated value is, I would say, a grandiose over 420 million. Euros. Our indicative calculations will be more specific, we will have in March next year, I hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Pavlova. Mr. Hristov's right to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u109	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'm happy with the answer. I hope that as a successful minister you will be able to complete this very important project for the region as well. Indeed, what is most painful and you place it as a priority to highlight the Byala region and to start from this lot in terms of being the worst road accidents there are. Thank you and wish each other success for the realization of the project.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u110	Thank you, Mr. Christov. A hole? No. Thank you to Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, for participating in today's parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u111	We are going to answer questions from the Minister of Justice Mr. Hristo Ivanov. First to him will ask the people representative Slavi Binev about the policy of introducing e-Justice. Here you are, Mr. Binev, to develop your inquiry within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, the introduction of e-Justice is an important step towards the implementation of the e-government project and represents one of the priorities of the current government. Undoubtedly, e-Justice would contribute to improving the administrative service of citizens and businesses, would also greatly ease the work of magistrates. It will come to achieving greater transparency of the administration and addressing a number of problems of the judiciary. The subjective human factor will be eliminated at all, which in most cases has caused people not to trust the justice system. The successive measures in this direction will help improve the electronic systems of judicial authorities, thereby preventing new scandals relating to the distribution of cases or case files. I believe that we have enough tools to finance this project, and I can give an example of the opportunities given to us by the new Operational Programme. In this regard, I ask you to present the measures identified by the Ministry of Justice for the introduction of electronic justice in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as some deadline within which this would be a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u113	Here you are, Minister, for an answer to your question in five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Binev, an extremely important issue "Strategic," undoubtedly! I will hardly be able to answer all aspects of the question. After all, the most important thing. Firstly, there is a strategic framework related to the planning of the implementation of this process. We must bear in mind that the final point we are seeking and which you have described involves a huge change in which the paper will disappear and the entire process will go into digital form. This will affect millions of citizens, all legal people involved in law enforcement. This is indeed a cultural and technological revolution. From this point of view, the presence of clear long-term planning is very important and it must also be clear that this process will not end with one blow. The road map we have is extremely detailed. I would like to point out that it has been adopted by both the Council of Ministers and the Supreme Judicial Council (SJC). So here we have an example of good coordination between the authorities. It outlines the specific measures that will lead to the realization of this objective. The funding, as you have noted, is also secured. It's no less important. It is about the Good Governance Programme, in which funds totaling 34 million are allocated. 923 thousand. BGN, which will actually make it really possible, not just to talk about introducing electronic justice, but also to have the means to do so. The first step, on the one hand, of course, is regulatory. The regulatory framework which makes it possible to move towards e-Justice must be introduced. It will be done with the adoption of amendments to the Law on the Judiciary. A large part of them relate precisely to the introduction of electronic justice. We are talking about extremely detailed norms. January is yet another round table for their discussion. If you wish, we would be honored to have you present and participate in her work. From there, there are specific electronic services for which we have already taken steps. First of all, an opportunity has been created for Bulgarian citizens abroad to declare and provide them with an electronic evidence of criminality by consular services. This service shall be performed within an hour. There is a technical possibility to request and provide criminal records by electronic means, which can take place throughout the day. Such references are about 250 thousand a year. We are currently finalizing an electronic payment system by electronic means of a service........................................................................................... An electronic submission of reporting documents on the activities of non-profit legal entities has been made available. A single portal for e-Justice shall be developed under the project of the SJC. It will provide citizens with central access to cases and websites of the judicial authorities, which will be unified in volume and scope of information. The SJC colleagues presented the results of this project very recently. They're extremely encouraging. It is also very important to note that you explicitly raised the issue of the occasional distribution of cases. In the end, at the moment, I am extremely pleased to note that the SJC is introducing a new software which has been developed with a broad group of IT experts from various institutions and, in their opinion, those security gaps that have existed so far have been eliminated. The next big step, Mr. Binev, which should make the institutions and especially the Supreme Judicial Council and the Inspectorate to it, is to develop their own capacity for IT checks because it is definitely a missing element. The security of the software cannot be guaranteed without the security of the environment in which it is applied. We will work with colleagues in this regard. Secondly, apart from these separate projects, it is very important to ensure that adequate communication and information infrastructure is available, i.e. hardware. At the moment, we have a highly decentralised picture in which every judiciary institution has provided its own hardware and software. We do an audit, an assessment of the state that will allow us to proceed to massive purchasing of standardized equipment. We're working on forming a private public cloud and so on. I mean, it's working on a very broad front. If you're willing, I'll give you the specifics.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u115	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Do you have any supplementary questions, Mr. Binev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary, I sincerely cross your fingers. The questions I ask are actually together to remind ourselves what are the problems that need to be solved because Bulgarian citizens have long wanted justice. It can be largely guaranteed when the human factor is eliminated. This is not just about eliminating the paper, it is about not being able to be a fair system and being absolutely certain that the choice of cases, a prosecutor or a judge will be accidental only when the French ambassador intervenes. Make sure this doesn't fall into the palm of your hands to compromise the system. Three are the big things that, if they are corrected without the need to correct the entire Constitution, I am sure that we will relieve the Bulgarian citizens very much and make them believe that in Bulgaria, after all, politicians are statesmen. One of them is justice. Of course, the others are well aware of them - this is the e-government that will largely eliminate corruption or at least its prominent part. Of course, we can't help but add the third main indicator "Freedom of speech," which I really don't know how it's going to be fixed. Indeed, we need to do everything possible to have some fixed date or at least some time limit within which we know that the justice system will ultimately work in a clearer, more concrete way that inspires confidence in Bulgarian citizens. I am interested in the most extreme, the furthest term in which it will be known that human factor and human subjectivity will be eliminated.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u117	Come in for an answer to that question, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u118	Mr. Binev, the picture you outlined is a very attractive date on which the human factor is eliminated, there is no corruption, the sun rises and shines twice as strongly. Unfortunately, perhaps because I am inside this process, I cannot see this happening, and I will continue to insist on being more realistic than fascinating speakers. The date on which the new software, which I am talking about, will start operating and which we have full assurances from the specialists that it really is a very important step forward, has been changed several times. I hope that, as of 1 January, this software will be implemented in all courts anyway. Henceforth, because the human factor, even when it comes to computer systems, does not disappear, let us not make illusions. You said that the visible part of corruption would be eliminated. This is very important, especially when it comes to computer systems. Control systems, our ability to control what's going on with the software, with the servers, will be extremely important. In this regard, we are working with colleagues from the Supreme Judicial Council. I hope this thing also happens. As for the occasional distribution of cases, we are talking about a new system from the beginning of next year. As far as the whole transition is concerned, without paper, computer systems, electronic affairs, there our deadline is set by the deadlines adopted in the European Union, this is 2020. I hope, at least as far as the Ministry of Justice is concerned, we have every intention to deal with it within this time limit. Again, the transition will be very big. The introduction of the single portal is very important in terms of security and transparency. It's happening now, it's built, we have a few questions to clear with the service, but we are working very intensively and I hope this becomes real in the shortest possible time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u119	Thank you. Mr. Binev, please express your attitude to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u120	I absolutely agree with the Minister that it is indeed impossible for all of this to happen with a magic wand. I'm not gullible, and I know perfectly well that this has to be divided into some stages. It is good, however, to draw these stages, to give some insurance periods in which to re-insure so that time cannot constantly push. It is good to make these deadlines public for example one-one action will be made and there will be one final deadline to know, as you have already said 2020. I think we should be ready before that, as we are in the hands of our citizens for a number of subjective and objective reasons. For this reason, I believe that these stages should be announced in the media so that you can create a pressure outside that will not allow you to postpone things in time, as there is a need for all of this to happen because of the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. Good luck to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u121	Thank you. The next question is from MP Miho Mihov on the synchronization of the Property Register with the Cadastre Registry Agency and the conditions for registration of real estate. Here you are, Mr. Mihov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u122	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly! In accordance with the provisions of the Cadastral and Property Register Act, the proceedings for the creation of the Property Register must be synchronised for each judicial area with that of the Cadastre. This synchronization is carried out at an extremely slow pace, according to many citizens and mostly in less populated areas. The logic of this process remains unclear given the fact that most real estate deals are carried out in major district centers such as Burgas, Veliko Tarnovo, Yambol, Gabrovo, from where I was sought for assistance in this case. Visible from art. 70 of the Cadastral and Property Register Act, the planning and award of proceedings for the creation of an Property Register is within the powers of the Minister of Justice. It is up to him where and when it will be done. In my opinion, there is fair resentment from many citizens, owners and heirs of real estate because of the neglect of their problems by the Ministry of Justice. In this regard, I would like to address to you, Dear Minister, the following question: on the basis of the adopted by the Council of Ministers under art. 94, para. 2 of the Cadastral and Property Register Act long-term and annual programme, is there a planned and open by your order of the Minister of Justice, the production of the Property Register for 2015 and 2016 and for which judicial areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u123	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Here you are, Minister, for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u124	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mihov, the question you are asking is extremely important. We should also say that the assessments you gave for the slowness of the process are absolutely correct and we cannot deny them. The slowness is ultimately due to the fact that the process is not only technologically extremely complex. In the process of work there are extremely many errors that are due to many factors and a large part of them to the output documentation, the state of the description of the different properties. On the other hand, the ultimate result of really creating legal certainty is enormous. There are other countries of the European Union that have tried to make this process fast, for example, our northern neighbour Romania. There they entered the transition with one blow and after eight months they had to give up and go back. The fact is that the process has been going very slowly over the years, but it is also a fact that the risks are very high and we need to be careful. What I can say is that, at present, proceedings have started under art. 70 of the Cadastral and Property Register Act for the establishment and introduction of an Property Register with orders of the Minister of Justice for the following judicial areas: Asenovgrad, Balchik, Blagoevgrad, Kavarna and Dobrich. The situation at the moment is as follows: since 2006 there have been no new orders for proceedings, for drawing up lots of real estate, i.e. the production of the introduction of an Property Register. The reason for this is that no cadastral map and cadastral registers for the entire judicial area have entered into force. I don't think I should explain to you, but rather to the listeners. In order for the minister to proceed with such an order, the cadastral map must have been drawn up. It's that extremely complex technical process and it doesn't depend on our Ministry, but it doesn't matter who it depends on. In order to speed up the process, editing of art. 73 of the Cadastral and Property Register Act 2014 which requires, after the approval of the cadastral map and of the registers for the territory concerned, the Minister will issue an order to announce the introduction of the Property Register for the judicial area. The production of cadastral map and cadastral registers shall be opened by order of the Executive Director of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency. The maps and registers produced shall be accepted by the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Office. The accepted cadastral map and registers shall be approved by order of the Executive Agency and the Executive Director of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of Art. 1. 73 of the Cadastral and Property Register Act, following the entry into force of the Executive Director's order and after the approval of the cadastral map and registers for the respective territory, then, only then did the Minister of Justice issue an order declaring the introduction of the Property Register for the same judicial area. What I can say is that we are currently subject to a public discussion of a proposal that does not require the issue of a cadastral map for the entire judicial area, but to focus the process on individual settlements, that is, where it is ready, to be able to directly approach this amendment in public discussion. We hope that after its adoption they will speed up, at least where there is technical readiness. I would like to assure you that both colleagues from the Agency and the other ministries of agriculture and MRDPs, who have a butchery to various aspects of this process, are making great efforts to speed this up. For us, it's very important to all of us, but we also need to be aware of the serious risks that there are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u125	Here you are, Mr. Mihov, for a reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u126	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, I thank you for your reply that you actually accept it as a condition which Bulgaria cannot be proud of, and in the context of capitalist development, when the properties of the people should be valued and moved at the will of the owners and heirs. In any case, what you share as your intention may speed up and solve some of the problem, but it is disrespectful for the citizens of Bulgaria since 2006 not to have a court order on the Property Register. In my opinion, you have saved yourself the name of the ministry, on which you depend, this is the ministry of Minister Pavlova, for which... She and I should probably talk not only about Strandja-Sakar, but also about this problem. In any case, the Cadastre is inspired, and I believe that consistency between the two ministries must also be carried out at the level of the Deputy Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u127	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Mr. Ivanov, please respond further.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u128	Mr. Mihov, don't think of it as fellowship or diplomacy on my part. I would like to assure you perfectly frankly that Minister Pavlova is putting great efforts into moving this process faster. For her personally, despite the enormous political and economic risks they are hiding, she is indeed, without exaggeration, the motive of this effort in our government, and that is why I am confident that we will be able to overcome this huge lag that you have rightly noted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u129	Thank you. We move on to the issue from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov on discriminatory treatment of the Council of Citizenship at the Ministry of Justice to the Banatski Bulgarians. Here you are, Mr. Stanilov, you have the opportunity to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u130	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! In the Western part of Romania more than 300 years live the so-called Bulgarians of Banat. They were displaced after the defeat of the Chiprov Uprising at the end of the 15th century, and their center was the village Star Beshenov. It has the oldest Bulgarian school, which has been operating continuously since 1745. His 400 students are studying Bulgarian language four hours a week in the lower course and three hours a day in the upper course. At the level of mastery of the book Bulgarian language in Star Beshnov can envy many Sofians. The Banat Bulgarians keep their identity zealously and even in recent years have won the right in Romania 24 May to celebrate as the Day of Bulgarian Language. In view of the above, it is incomprehensible the attitude of officials from the Ministry of Justice to the Banat Bulgarians. According to the mayor of Star Beshenov in the Council of Citizenship at the Ministry for two years 42 files of Banat Bulgarians are aged. Your officials, Mr. Minister, do not recognise the national belongings of the Banat Bulgarians because, I quote, their personal names belong to the Roman name system and do not report that this was mandatory during Ceausescu's time. The officials have not even understood that the candidates for Bulgarian citizenship from Banat are guided by emotional reasons and do not need the Bulgarian passport. As Romanian citizens, Banat Bulgarians can travel and work without problems in the European Union. They insist on acquiring Bulgarian passports for the sake of the memory of their ancestors who preserved Bulgarianism during such difficult times. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: what measures will you take to end the discriminatory treatment of Banat Bulgarians? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u131	Yeah, thanks for the actual question. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u132	Honourable Professor. Stanilov, thank you for the raised question. This is not the first time we have occasion to work together on solving a matter of a Bulgarian group outside the borders of our country. What I can say specifically about the case that you are raising is this. In April, July 2013 42 procedures for acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship on the basis of Bulgarian origin, submitted by citizens of the Republic of Romania, were initiated in the Bulgarian Ministry of Justice. At the meetings of the Citizenship Council on 17 and 24 July 2014, they were also examined and decided to be removed for further examination due to a lack of naturalisation documents certifying the fulfilment of the legal requirements pursuant to § 2, item 2. 1 of the Additional provisions of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, namely the proof of the existence of an ascending Bulgarian. Documentation is required by the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad, on the basis of which the persons are issued certificates of Bulgarian origin. The Agency for Bulgarians abroad provided in the Ministry of Justice the files for the persons who are nationals of the Republic of Romania on 21 May 2015. In the review of the documents it was found that these files contain the following documents: an application for a Bulgarian national consciousness, a copy of a certificate of birth with a translation into Bulgarian language and a copy of a passport of a citizen of the Republic of Romania, but there is no entry for the Bulgarian nationality of the person or one of his ascendant, as is the explicit requirement of § 2, item. 1 of the Additional Provisions of the Bulgarian Citizenship Act. For this reason, applicants are given an additional opportunity to provide documents certifying the requirements of the Law. These documents were submitted to the Ministry of Justice on 5 October 2015 by Mr. Georgi Nakov, Honorary Consul of the Republic of Bulgaria in Timisoara and Mayor of the village of Stara Beshenov in Romania. For your information, Mr. Nakov has provided certified copies of military books with registered Bulgarian nationality of ascending and candidates for Bulgarian citizenship. Following an expert examination of the cited documents, the legal requirements for naturalization under the light conditions have been established. The receipts have already been reviewed, passed through the Citizenship Council and a decree is to be issued by the Vice President. What I can summarize is that there has been a delay in the need to collect additional documents. Once they have been collected, we expect the final stage of the procedure to be issued by the Vice President to be signed. I think we see a successful conclusion. More generally, however, I am ready according to the example of what we did with the Bulgarians gagauzi, if there are specific needs this group, together with the Agency for Bulgarians abroad to make further efforts to ease order and to take account of their specific circumstances in which they are located. So we're here for extra effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u133	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u134	Dear Minister, what you have answered, pleases me completely. On behalf of all Bulgarians who confess the national cause and who have sent me to this Parliament, I congratulate you with this first step towards resolving the problems of the foreign Bulgarians. I think these problems will continue to be solved if you, of course, have a similar desire and if the Ministry on this issue is operating considerably faster without formalising the ministerial officials who are obliged to do so by law. I have nothing else to say to you. I hope that the next problem in which I will ask you a question will be resolved in the same way. Thank you once again for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u135	Thank you. We can move on to the next question by the National Representative Dimitar Delchev regarding access to and use of the so-called blue rooms. You are welcome to develop your question in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! That's right, my question concerns access to blue rooms. As you all know very well these are the special rooms where children are interrogated in conflict with justice. These are places that are equipped in such a way that children can, in a suitable environment for them, provide the information as they have adopted it. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Ministry of Justice for putting in new efforts to open new such rooms, which in Bulgaria, God willing, find full coverage so that questioning children and their participation in the process is much easier. Today's question concerns a specific case of an alert which I have received for difficulty in accessing blue rooms and not overall access, but rather access when it comes to questioning a child witness quickly, let's say, at night or early in the morning. The prosecutor who was responsible for this action, putting the request to question the child, received a refusal because the application had failed to meet formal requirements, which, you all well understand, hinders the entire criminal process. In this regard, I would like to ask in particular: can we get some data on how many blue rooms are currently in existence on the territory of Bulgaria and which institution manages the blue rooms? Is there any data in the Ministry of Justice on denied access, whether there are formalized such refusals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u137	Thank you. Here you are, Minister, for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u138	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Delchev, let me thank you for being invariably with us in our efforts on this so important subject. Specifically on the subject. You know, according to the provision of art. 388, para. 1 of the Law on the Judiciary, the Minister of Justice distributes the use of the real estate granted to the judiciary between its individual bodies and may entrust them to the individual administrative directors. In practice, this means that we issue an order, but from then on the real regime and management takes place at the discretion of the respective administrative supervisor. Currently, rooms for sparing hearing of children, known as blue rooms, have been established in 12 court chambers in the country. There are four adapted courtrooms in the district courts in Burgas and Blagoevgrad, two in the District Court "Veliko Tarnovo," eight adapted rooms in the judicial buildings in Burgas, Haskovo, Zlatograd, Dulovo, Berkovitsa, Balchik, Chepelare and Byala Slatina. With the exception of the adapted rooms in Balchik and Chepelare, the rest of these rooms are made in partnership with non-governmental organizations and financed by external donors. Their management and management shall be carried out by the judicial authorities. They are mainly used in civil proceedings requiring a hearing of children from all judicial authorities in the respective locality. The adapted room in the city of Burgas is also used by the state court performers in handing over a child. In addition, 14 specialized interrogation rooms for children are built in the country, the so-called blue rooms, which are used mainly for questioning in the criminal proceedings of children witnesses, or victims of crime. These rooms function as part of social services in the cities of Vidin, Montana, Veliko Tarnovo, Shumen, Ruse, Burgas, Blagoevgrad, Dupnitsa, two in Sofia, Sliven, Stara Zagora, Pazardzhik and Plovdiv. Their construction, like the adapted rooms, is also funded by external projects in partnership with non-governmental organizations. Their location is usually outside judicial buildings, most often in centres that provide social services to the community, such as the Centre for Public Support for Working with Children and Others. The Blue Rooms are part of the provision of social services in the respective cities. Their holding and management shall be delegated to the relevant non-governmental organisation by the Agency for Social Assistance. Two of the blue rooms in Veliko Tarnovo and the one at the Sofia Police Directorate are located in police stations and are respectively managed by the police. The rules on work and coordination in relation to their use by the different institutions shall be carried out by the relevant social service centre or by the police department. Since April 2013, the Ministry of Justice has been actively working on the Project strengthening the legal and social capacity of the judiciary in the area of child justice, which is funded under the Bulgarian-Swiss cooperation programme. In the implementation of this project are laid down funds for the construction of five premises for the sparing hearing of children provided for in [[the President signals that time has run out]] Vidin, Varna, Vratsa, Pleven and Kozloduy. At present, the Ministry has not received any signals for access to blue rooms. But because you are raising this topic, we have sent out letters asking for specific information about the regime and on the basis of this review, if necessary, under the circumstances, to make efforts to ease and eliminate any obstacles that could arise in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u139	Thank you. Do you have a line, Mr. Delchev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u140	I would like to thank you for this well-provided information, Mr. Minister, and to wish you success on the topic of Children's Justice. It is perhaps a small subject against the backdrop of the entire judicial reform, but it is very important. I am pleased that as much information as we received at the last meeting of the Legal Committee, December we will have the first Child Justice Act to be discussed within the framework of a working group between the Ministry of Justice and the MPs. I'd be happy to join this task force. Each one of the people to give feedback and ultimately make a good law to replace the archaic Antisocial Act, which, as we well know, is from 1958. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u141	Thank you. You don't have to, Mr. Ivanov, take the floor again. The last question to you is again by the MP Stanislav Stanilov regarding compliance with the legislation during the illegal crossing of the state border. This is perhaps a more theme for the Minister of Interior, but you are welcome to develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u142	The subject is exactly for the minister to whom I have addressed it, dear Mr. Chairman. Daily the media flood us with information about foreign citizens who illegally cross the state border of the Republic of Bulgaria. Some journalists, even officials, are trying to present identified offenders as refugees who need to receive special care and protection. I will not dwell here on international legal argumentation because such persons cannot be treated as refugees in our country. I will only draw your attention to the fact that, in principle, anyone claiming to be recognised as a refugee must enter the country concerned legally and through an official checkpoint. This is true for all countries in the world and, respectively, in the European Union. If you read international news, you will see that large human masses across the Hungarian, Croatian and Slovenian border are piled up at relevant checkpoints. The same is seen in the Greek Aegean Islands. Anyone who tries not to enter through an officially regulated entry of the state shall be designated as a breach of the state border and shall be subject to a penalty under the Penal Code. In this regard, I ask you to answer: against how many foreign citizens have criminal cases been filed for illegal crossing of the state border of the Republic of Bulgaria since the beginning of the year in mid-October? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u143	Thank you. Here you are, Minister, for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u144	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Honorable Professor Stanilov! However, to recall that the legal framework of relations between the Republic of Bulgaria and asylum seekers is regulated by the International Convention. We are talking about the 1951 Convention on the Status of Refugees. With its ratification Bulgaria has undertaken to ensure that any person who is fleeing from armed conflict and has reached its borders will have access to the territory of the country, as well as a fair procedure for obtaining protection. The Imperial norm of art. 27, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria states that our country gives asylum to foreigners, persecuted for their beliefs or activities in defence of internationally recognised rights and freedoms. The conditions and procedures for granting protection to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and their rights and obligations are laid down by the Law on Asylum and Refugees. With regard to your question, how many citizens have been prosecuted for illegal crossing of the state border from the beginning of 2015 to the middle of October, I can inform you that according to art. 80 of the Law on the Judiciary, the Presidents of the Regional Courts shall draw up information, references and statistics which they provide every six months to the Supreme Judicial Council and to the Minister of Justice. I note this thing because this is the base on which I can answer your question. For the first six months, i.e. January and the whole of June 2015 under art. 792 criminal proceedings were initiated by the NK and under Article 279 of the NK. 280 of the NK criminal proceedings are 92. For the second half of the year, the information will be available in January 2016. You should bear in mind that attracting criminal liability of persons who have committed a crime is within the competence of the prosecution according to art. 172 of the Constitution and the Ministry of Justice cannot take into account cases relating to the formation of criminal proceedings, but, anyway, this is the statistics we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u145	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Stanilov, for a reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u146	Dear Minister, I did not ask you and you did not tell me if these 782 cases were finalized, and also the other 92 under the NK and how the procedure is going, as we expect such violations again, as the media and international institutions are constantly full of information that a refugee wave will flood Europe again. I will keep in mind these processes and hope that the Ministry of Justice in Bulgaria, as well as the law enforcement authorities, on this issue I will also ask the Minister of Interior, as Mr. Stoilov hinted when he asked me the question, so that he could still, as I am expressing himself, in the spotlight, come up things that in other cases cannot come out. We act on a principle called political correctness. I think this principle is to hide the truth from society. And because everyone is saying that these expatriates from there, from the Middle East and from the African countries, that even most of all from Afghanistan, are not refugees and they should answer to the Law on Illegal Entry into Bulgaria. They should not be allowed here, but this is no longer a question of your Ministry. Your Ministry is obliged to observe and enforce the Law. Let us see if there will be a conviction for this and see whether the penalty provided for by the Law will be applied to everyone without exception. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u147	Thank you. Mr. Ivanov, do you have any information about this additional question by Mr. Stanilov? That was his line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u148	Mr. Stanilov, there is certainly a finalization. Unfortunately, I do not have that information at the moment, but additionally, if I may, by the middle of next week, we will provide you with the statistics we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u149	Thank you for participating in Parliamentary control. We are moving on to a question of the National Representative Ivan Ivanov on taking urgent measures to identify the causes and prevention of hepatitis C disease of young children from pre-school establishments of the town of Tvarditsa in Sliven region to the Minister of Health Mr. Petar Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly! The population of the town of Tvarditsa was worried to find in the months of August and September a growing incidence of hepatitis of children visiting pre-school establishments in Tvarditsa. We are talking about children living in risk conditions living in the time-distributed Roma neighborhood in poor hygienic environment, limited water use, lack of sewerage. The waste water is spilled on the streets with reduced medical prevention. Regarding the serious danger of increasing the incidence of hepatitis in Tvarditsa, I ask you, Dear Minister, to answer the question: What measures have you taken to clarify the causes of the diseases among children from kindergarten and nursery in Tvarditsa, and what system of control and health care for adolescents should be provided? I am also doing this because of the fact that such situations as the one in Tvarditsa have in many other places in the country, relevant to social and domestic specifics and the lives of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u151	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You're welcome to answer the question, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u152	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the Regional Health Inspectorate, the city of Sliven has not reported cases of viral hepatitis C, as was one of the original versions and in the context of your question of children from Tvarditsa attending kindergartens. In the period 1.08. A total of 63 cases of hepatitis A were registered among children of the respective origin in the town of Tvarditsa, of which 56 cases were confirmed and after treatment in the Infectious Department of Hospital "Dr. Ivan Seliminski." As of 15.10.2015, seven cases were hospitalized. The fires are compactly located on the edge of the city. Some of the sick attend ODZ Happy childhood and secondary school. Regional Health Inspectorate Sliven has taken the following actions to control the epidemic situation in the city. In any case, an epidemiological study has been carried out. Human immunoglobulins for the prevention of contact persons have been provided to general practitioners. An anti-epidemic regime of work has been introduced in the children's and educational institutions concerned, prescriptions have been issued to the mayor of the municipality of Tvarditsa and the directors of the ODZ. The reception of new children in the affected crib group of the united children's establishment has been established. Since the beginning of the new school year, children have been accepted into another group and the two groups have dedicated entrances and separate premises without any connection between them. Daily morning filter has been introduced, with questionable conditions being removed and directed to general practitioners for testing, bilirubin, serum aminotransferases and so on. The active search for suspected patients of observed contact persons is directed to an examination by an infectious disease specialist. The current disinfection of floors, surfaces and bathrooms in children's and educational establishments is carried out with a disinfectant with increased concentration of the working solution according to the RGI regulations. Washing disinfectants are provided in the sanitary nodes. Use of disposable drinking glasses of water has been introduced. The Regional Health Inspectorate in Sliven has carried out a final disinfection of the two buildings of the ODZ "Happy childhood" "WCs," bedrooms, common premises for distribution of food, toys and playrooms, and at the school "Neofit Rilski "I, II and III" class, located in two buildings, respectively bathrooms, study rooms, corridors, gyms and sports facilities. As well as the affected outbreaks, all premises, dining facilities in the houses where this happened, and outdoor toilets. Talks were held with the population in the neighborhood to observe personal hygiene and leaflets were given to familiarize them with the disease and its means of transport. All events to limit the incidence are carried out with the assistance of the health mediators. This is about Roma health mediators and general practitioners from the city. The town of Tvarditsa has provided a disinfectant which health mediators provide in the outbreaks and explain how to prepare working solutions and apply them. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In the case of compulsory health control checks carried out, RZI has not established the sale of foodstuffs at unregulated sites, because this would be the way, no dumping of junk has been found at unregulated sites. The shipment shall be carried out regularly. No deviations from the standards have been identified from the drinking water samples regularly. I can go on, but I hope I answered the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u153	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, for a line, if any of these questions must be clarified.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u154	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for the serious response, for the measures taken, for the accountability you have placed the regional health care centre on. However, I am seriously worried about prevention opportunities, health education, systemic control and requirements for the majority of the population, both of Tvarditsa and of Sliven region. I would like to believe, however, that you have a vision of the measures in the future and a similar precedent with more than 60 children in just one children's establishment and school in a small territory, which is undoubtedly solida, is a prerequisite for serious care, attention and action on the territory of the country in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u155	Thank you. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u156	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u157	No further questions, thank you for your participation. We move on to Mrs. Desislava Taneva's responses to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. The first question to her is from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov on the procedure for issuing authorisation for breeding activities by the Bulgarian Beekeeping Association. You're welcome to develop the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madame Minister! Nearly 7 months ago, the Bulgarian Bumblebee Association applied for breeding activities. The committee appointed by your Order No RD-09-376 of 29.05.2015 under Art. 29a of the Law on Animal Health gives a positive opinion for the issue of a permit with a report of 28.07.2015. Article 295, para. 2 of the Law on livestock breeding defines your right to issue or motivate the granting of a permit within 10 days of the submission of the report to the visated Commission. Due to the expiry of the term of the said legal text, as well as the threat of failure of its activities during the current breeding season, the Association benefits from its rights under the Law on limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of the business. 1, para. 4 t. 2 referring to Art. 15, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 28 and 29 of the same Law, informing you of its decision to pursue breeding activities. This, of course, should not be the conclusion of the procedure under the Law on livestock farming. Dear Minister, by fulfilling the request of representatives of the Bulgarian Bee breeding association, I ask you to answer the following question: Will the Bulgarian Bee breeding association, as is the opinion of the Commission appointed by you, bee breeding association, bee breeding association, bee breeding association?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u159	Thank you. Here you are, Mrs. Taneva, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u160	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I will answer the question by presenting in a chronology how it went and still the procedure in which you asked your question. An application was submitted to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food on 24 April 2015 by the Bulgarian Bee breeding association for authorisation to carry out breeding activities. By my order of 29 May 2015 a Commission under art. 29a, para. 1 of the Animal Health Act to examine the documents submitted on the application. The same Commission held four meetings and during the procedure requested a correction of the breeding programme from an association applying for authorisation. The report quoted by you with a proposal for issuance or refusal of authorisation is not an individual administrative act within the meaning of art. 21, para. 1 of the Administrative Procedure Code. It is only informative about the course of the procedure and compliance with the requirements of art. Article 29 29a of the Law on Animal Health. Following the completion of the third Commission meeting, which has produced a positive report to me, a complaint was received at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food on 13 August 2015 by the President of the National Beekeeping Association. In it, the applicant submits that the granting of authorisation to carry out breeding activities by the Bulgarian Breeding Association, from whose members you ask the question, will jeopardise the implementation of the breeding programme of the association represented by it, which is grounds for refusing to grant authorisation to carry out the breeding activity, according to art. 29b, para. 1, t. 2 of the Animal Health Act. In the performance of my duties and in view of the responsibility I bear as the central authority of the executive, by my order of 24 August 2015, I have ordered that an on-the-spot check be carried out with a view to clarifying the alleged circumstances of the said alert. The procedure for granting permission to carry out breeding activities following an application of the Bulgarian Beehive Association was suspended until the case was clarified. On 27 October 2015, a summary report with the results of the on-the-spot checks was approved by the responsible Deputy Minister for Agriculture and Food. The same report was reviewed at the last, fourth Commission meeting on 3 November 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u161	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your response. Mr. Slavov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, dear Minister, for the thorough approach you have once again demonstrated for your willingness to support serious initiatives. I am pleased that the Breeding Association has a genuine legal license to carry out an activity that is extremely important to them. Thank you. Good luck.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u163	There's no need for a duplicate, Madam Secretary. We are going to the next question to you by the MP Stanislav Stanilov on the lack of policy on the supply of firewood to the population. Here you go, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u164	Dear Minister! I was approached by voters from Pazardzhiska region who are struggling to get firewood for the winter season. By law, and by normal logic, every local community has the right to use the resources that are mined in the local area. However, the real situation is quite different. The timber allocated to the population is cut off by companies of local branches of state forest enterprises. Priority in their activities is the raw material for export and processing of timber. The local population gets what's left in the end. As a result, there is a shortage of wood. The bigger the deficit, the higher the price for the population, which has already reached it was a month ago, somewhere around 60 70 BGN. for a cubic meter. The problem applies to the whole country. The Ministry does not have a single price policy for selling wood to the population. Many Bulgarian citizens with lower incomes face the danger of staying cold in winter. In this regard, I ask you to answer me why the Ministry does not really have a policy regarding the supply of firewood to the population? If you claim to have one, what is it? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u165	Thank you. There's been a lot of wood going around lately, but on other lines. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u166	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Stanilov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I dare argue that policies concerning the supply of firewood are also included in the Forests Act and in the Ordinance on the terms and conditions of awarding the implementation of activities in forestry areas. There are two ways: by buying on a solid price signature of standing wood on the root, in this case the buyer himself organizes and performs the extraction of wood, the second way is by buying on a well-established price signature of harvested wood from a forest warehouse, which is the more widespread practice. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food through state forest enterprises has established an organisation and up to now more than 3 million have been proposed on the wood market. Space cubic meters of firewood. That's 80 grand. Space cubic meters more than the same period last year. State forest enterprises in the current heating season provide direct sales to natural persons standing wood of root and harvested wood from stock a total of 1 million. 170,000. Space cubic meters of firewood as this quantity is 224 thousand. spatial cubic meters more compared to the reported sale in this order last year. By the end of October, through direct sales to individuals of wood to the root and warehouse were realized over 850 thousand. spatial cubic metres of firewood or more than 2/3 of the defined plan for the year as quantity and necessity. Specifically for the area of Pazardzhik district. The designated amounts of firewood for direct sales of natural persons to the root and warehouse are 148 thousand. It's cubic meters, which is 4,000. cubic meters more compared to the reported sale in this order towards the end of last year. At the end of October, a sale of 87 thousand was made. spatial cubic meters at the following prices: for deciduous wood in forest warehouse between 30 and 40 BGN. excluding VAT for spatial cubic meters for solid deciduous species and for coniferous wood between 18 and 23 BGN, again without VAT. The sale price of firewood produced by the individuals themselves, which is a less common way, is BGN 12. excluding VAT for spatial cubic meters for deciduous and respectively 5 BGN. excluding VAT for spatial cubic meter for coniferous wood. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has made maximum efforts to respond to the usual increased demand for firewood from the population during this period of the year, and in addition to the instructions given in mid-July to state forest enterprises to be established in a timely manner to provide the necessary quantities of wood, by letter from the beginning of October, it is ordered that the directors of the enterprises, state forestry farms should accept, as well as to comply with any request made by citizens at preferential prices under the established price lists for the sale of natural persons, and for a proven failure will be sought and appropriate responsibility. I just want to mention that these prices do not include the corresponding transport costs to the place where the wood is driven. The fact is that in this month there is usually more demand than supply, but the overall assurance compared to the previous period is even more.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u167	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. Mr. Stanilov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u168	Madam Minister, your answer expressed in numbers completely satisfies my question. The problem is that you say here that in Pazardzhishka, as in all other areas the supply is increased, that is, larger quantities have been offered than last year and yet they complain. The prices they're telling us, I'm talking here about BGN 60. per cubic meter, differ dramatically from those quoted by you. Is it in some way that the local organization and those involved in trade can artificially increase prices? That's the problem. Otherwise, my question remains to hang in the air. My constituents say there's no wood, and the prices are high, and you say everything's fine. That, of course, amazes me, but right now I don't have a chance to find out what the truth is. On the one hand, I would like to believe the state statistics, but on the other hand, I am obliged to trust my constituents as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u169	Madam Minister, please come in for clarification. In some cases, perhaps the point is that they are directed to other places to supply wood. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Stanilov! Surely the signals you're saying are probably those. Everything I said as statistics is according to reporting documents. With regard to the price signature, this can also be verified in the undertakings themselves. At what price, however, the traders themselves offer, this is a process that cannot be regulated. The fact is that in November, when everyone remembers that they need to be supplied, there is usually a few days of mandatory higher demand. Looking at the year, if the population had the culture of timely wood provision, this wouldn't have worked. I am convinced that the prices that you are quoting are certainly not from state forest holdings. This can be checked on the spot. The price list I quoted also pays the corresponding transport costs that are different.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva, for participating in parliamentary control. We are going to answer questions to Minister Temenuzhka Petkova. The first question is from the MP Slavi Binev on granting concession for mining of underground riches in the municipality of Ivaylovgrad. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! There are indications that illegal extraction of rock cladding materials is taking place on the territory of the municipality of Ivaylovgrad. Since 2011, there has been a single body for underground wealth management, which is entrusted with the policy of providing the rights to search, research and extraction of underground wealth. Such scandalous cases call into question its effectiveness and lack of control which should be exercised by the Ministry. There is a need to initiate an inspection of the mining activity in the area in order to impose sanctions on offenders and to proceed with termination of concession contracts which are carried out in the event of infringements. Will you issue a check on the granted mining concessions in the municipality of Ivaylovgrad and what possible sanctions will be imposed? What measures will the Ministry of Energy take to improve control and improvement policy on underground wealth management in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u173	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Minister Petkova, you have the opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u174	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Binev! On the territory of the municipality of Ivaylovgrad there are currently concluded and entered into force 21 concession contracts for the extraction of underground riches, mainly for rock cladding materials, with one concession contract being concluded on 21 March 2014 and has not entered into force. The Ministry of Energy's control is organised in two directions on a well-established timetable and extraordinary checks, most often in relation to received signals. All existing concessions in the territory of the municipality shall be verified once a year by imposing monetary penalties under the terms of the contract in default or delayed execution. Contracts have been temporarily suspended until all obligations have been fulfilled. A concession contract on the territory of Ivaylovgrad Municipality was terminated by a decision of the Council of Ministers in 2014 due to a guilty failure to comply with the obligations under a contract by the concessionaire. For the period from the entry into force of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Underground Treasures from 2010 until now, 17 acts for the establishment of administrative violations have been drawn up and 13 criminal decrees for violations of the Law on Underground Treasures were issued mainly for extraction without a duly granted concession concerning established violations in the territory of the municipality of Ivaylovgrad. A penalty of 50 thousand is imposed for each of the penal decrees. lv. In entering an illegal mining alert, immediate action shall be taken to carry out an on-the-spot check by employees of the specialized administration of the Ministry of Energy and, in some cases, employees from other institutions are involved in the verification. For the period from 2013 to 2015 in relation to the powers of the mayor of the municipality concerned under the Law on Underground Treasures, namely for the exercise of timely and effective on-the-spot control, the Ministry of Energy of the municipality of Ivaylovgrad has presented 13 constant protocols for on-the-spot checks by employees of the municipal administration, with no violations under the Law on Underground Resources. In the last protocol of 2015, an extraction was found on a property falling within the concession area of an existing concession, which is without a change of purpose on the land. By letter dated 5 October 2015, the municipality of Ivaylovgrad sent a draft act establishing an administrative infringement of 24 August 2015 for violation of the Law on Underground Treasures. A criminal order from the specialized administration of the Ministry of Energy is to be drawn up and issued accordingly. During the period from 2013 to 2015, six inspections have been carried out by staff of the specialized administration, together with staff of the Ministry of Interior, by the competent directorate of the Ministry of Energy. Four of the checks for the abovementioned period were carried out in 2015. I can provide you with more detailed information in paper form if you wish. In view of the increasing scale of the illegal mining activity throughout the country, experts from the specialized administration of the Ministry of Energy, together with representatives of the administration of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Economy have prepared draft texts for criminalisation not only of illegal mining, but also of transportation, storage, processing, trade and use in production, construction or construction of illegal mining. I hope that these texts will indeed be as useful and comprehensive as possible, contributing to the cessation of this vicious practice relating to illegal extraction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u175	Thank you, Minister Petkova. In the back you have the opportunity to further develop the answer as well. Mr. Binev, line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, at the end of your answer, you gave the reason why I asked this question is the increase of violations. Indeed, there must be some way to group the efforts of several departments in order for them to be terminated, as the information coming from there is to increase the violations and in particular in Ivaylovgrad. The size of the number of infringements shows two things: either there is no reciprocity of the punishment that meets the infringement and anyone would risk if this violation or this punishment related to this infringement would not be so sinister for him, because no one would harm if there were really strong sanctions on this issue, to break the law, or it is just a practice to circumvent the relevant concession contracts and it does not have to be concluded on the basis of any violations, to run them. All of this has to be stopped somehow. If you need me, I could also provide you with information to enrich yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u177	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Do you want a hole? Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Binev, thank you for your willingness to cooperate. In addition to what I have also mentioned in the answer, I would just like to add the following. At the initiative of the Ministry of Energy, together with the municipal administration, as you know that under the Law on Underground Treasures, they also have very serious powers regarding this type of control, we initiate joint trainings related to the implementation of this Law. I believe that, along with the purely legal measures relating to the incrimination of this type of activity, along with training and the knowledge of the regulation, are also something very important that will contribute to reducing this type of infringement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u179	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We move on to the next question, which is again from the National Representative Slavi Binev and he is about the project for the construction of the gas pipeline.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Minister, according to the popular plan of Bulgartransgaz, a new pipeline will be built on Bulgarian territory, as well as a new compression station in the region of the village of Strandzha, near the Turkish border. The amount of aid to be recovered from the beneficiaries of the restructuring plan could amount to 700 million. Euros. This project is said to be an alternative to the South Stream project and will bring a number of benefits to our country. I believe that the issue of Bulgaria's role in the project should be clarified and more information on the possible consequences should be given. In this way, mistakes from the past will be avoided and new cases of misinformation of Bulgarian citizens will be prevented in relation to key energy projects. For this reason, I believe that an analysis should be drawn up and submitted on the project, which even the most pessimistic representatives of the other opinion cannot be refuted, because in the end we got away with a lot of energy projects for one reason or another, for one reason or another suggestion. I would like to ask you what will be the possible consequences of the Republic of Bulgaria's participation in the project in the construction of the Eastring pipeline?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u181	Thank you. Answer from Minister Petkova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u182	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Binev, "Eastring" is a project for building a transport corridor through the territory of Slovakia, Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria, providing for two-way supplies of natural gas from alternative sources. The corridor is intended to be realized between Velke Kapushani, an existing interconnection point between Ukrainian and Slovak gas networks, and a connection point with the external border of the European Union on the territory of Bulgaria. The concept is developed at this stage and included in the Community 10-year plan for the development of the networks of the European network of transmission system operators of gas, as well as in the 10-year plan for the development of the "Bulgartransgaz" from 2015 to 2024, provides for the realization of the "Eastring" as a cluster of projects in Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary and Slovakia. At the present stage of the development of the project for the territory of Bulgaria are considered two options for realization and the same are in an idea phase. The first option provides for the use of existing transmission infrastructure, while the second is related to the construction of a new gas infrastructure. Regarding the possible consequences of Bulgaria's participation in Eastring, it should be said that Bulgaria and the National Gas Operator have a marked interest in any economic and market-based opportunities to reach a wider range of natural gas sources. This is a prerequisite for real competition, market integration and diversification. It would contribute to increasing security of supply in the region of Central, Eastern and South East Europe, would provide access to alternative natural gas sources and is an important step in the process of building a single European energy market. It is important to emphasise that the project is still at the initial stage of its development. Once the initial technical characteristics of the project have been developed, the technical, market and economic aspects of its implementation are to be thoroughly examined and analysed. In this regard, at the technical level, Bulgartransgaz is cooperating with the transmission operators of Slovakia, Romania and Hungary, and the countries are discussing the technical aspects for the implementation of the project in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u183	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Replica, dear Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u184	Not so much to further my question as to give a recommendation that is extremely important, as I have already said in my initial statement, is to make a communication strategy so that a dispute can really be heated which simply does not smolder and does not create some preconceptions in people, but really understand once and for all that we have to participate in the big energy projects which, anyway, affect Europe and in any way be able to realise it, because such are the hopes of many people who live on this route. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u185	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Hole, you're out. We move on to the next question to Minister Temenuzhka Petkova. He is one of the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov about the conditions, the interest due and the spending of the borrowed loan from BEH AD for the frozen project South Stream. Mr. Slavov, you have the opportunity to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, our question is based on an answer that we received from you a long time ago, and from which, with great amazement, we have actually learned that in this issue loan, for which it has been claimed for a long time that no money has been taken by the Bulgarian Energy Holding, that the project has been frozen and so on, in fact, before the mandate of this government has been taken money and they have been taken in spite of the then explicit orders of the minister of the service, I would say, despite its explicit ban, which, of course, raised many questions, including the responsibility of the persons who have allowed themselves to do such a thing, the officials responsible. There are other questions that we have raised to you as an acting minister, respectively, and I ask you to answer. So, after we learned from your letter with No 121 that the money contribution, the increase in the capital of the project company South Stream, Bulgaria, was provided through a bank loan through the European Parliament's Gazprom International B.V., from the same letter we learned that on 11 August 2014. "Gazprom, the European Parliament International B.V." has contributed the sum of 191 million. lv. Directly to the South Stream, after a request has been made by the Bulgarian Energy Holding for this and despite the order issued by the then Minister Stonov to stop all activities by the Ministry of Economy and Energy then the companies in the Ministry's system on this project. The loans granted to the Bulgarian Energy Holding should be based on the Oresharski protocol signed during the term of office in 2013 with the Russian company to grant 620 million. EUR loan at least this low annual interest rate of nearly 5% per year. In relation to the above, Dear Minister, please answer the following question: for the period from 11 August 2014 to the moment how much interest payments are charged and how much interest payments are actually made to the creditors on the loan granted by the European Parliament International B.V. to the Bulgarian Energy Holding, have they been made on the principal, provided that the project is frozen and its activities are not carried out and what part of this contribution in the capital of the South Stream. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u187	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Dear Minister, come in. You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u188	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, dear Mr. Slavov! June 3rd 2014 a loan agreement for the sum of 620 million was concluded between the subsidiary of Gazprom International B.V. and the Bulgarian Energy Holding. Euros. The purpose of the loan is to finance the value of the shares subscribed by the shareholder from the increase in the capital of the company, which was decided by the Board of Shareholders on 6 December. 2013 The loan agreement was signed on the basis of a decision of the Board of Directors of the Bulgarian Energy Holding and a decision of the Ministry of Economy and Energy of 28 May 2014, which gives consent to its conclusion on the basis of the Statute of BEH. In fulfilling the terms of the loan agreement on 24 July 2014 was signed a contract for a special bet of future dividends claims, which the Bulgarian Energy Holding will receive from the Project Company South Stream. The South Stream is notified by the Bulgarian Energy Holding with a deliberate notification under the Law on Special Bets for the particular bet placed, as well as a party to an escrow account contract. This contract lays down the conditions for the repayment of the loan in the case of the distribution of dividends on the basis of a decision of the general meeting of shareholders. The borrower is intended to pay all of his debts only 80% of the dividends received under the Project Company South Stream, which applies to both principal and interest payments. Currently, according to accounting data, no interest has been charged in the Bulgarian Energy Holding and no payments have been made for the repayment of such payments, respectively no payments have been made for the repayment of the principal. According to information we requested and received from the South Stream South Stream Bulgaria, as of 1 November 2015 the funds provided and which represent an increase in the capital of the project company are not spent and are located at the account of the South Stream Bulgaria at the Bulgarian Development Bank. What I can say is that at present in the Bulgarian Energy Holding of Accounting Data there are no accrued interest and therefore no payments have been made for such, and no payments have been made to repay the principal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u189	Thank you, Minister Petkova. The line, Mr. Dimitrov, if you're going to replicate, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u190	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister! A few details. I will, otherwise, thank you for your answer. First of all, it is good that no interest payments have been made so far, given that the project is frozen, but is the contract signed so by the previous government that, for the amount that is actually transferred, these interest rates are to be paid in the future and are currently charged anyway? And even if they weren't charged, such claims could be made? That's our first question. Because, imagine that for some reason after a time on a project that is different from this one, work is continued and claims can be claimed backwards, years back for interest payments, that is, what is signed in the contract? Since this amount, even if it stands blocked and is not spent, may be the reason for interest payments from the period of receipt otherwise said, it has been in the project company for one year now. And the second question, the second clarification, is not even a question, what you said: if the total amount of the Oreshar Protocol signed during the term of office is about 620 million. Euros outside of that 190 million, did other amounts happen to join the project company? That's important to us, too. And thirdly, Mrs Minister, do we have a notification from the Russian side after the expected Turkish Stream project went where we were all expecting, went exactly that any development was stopped, because it was economically unfit from the first moment and it was a political idea, it was presented as a political idea, an alternative to setting Bulgarian citizens against the European Union, that was its goal, but that objective was, of course, not fulfilled, but do we have a position of the Russian side on what is going on with this project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u191	A hole, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u192	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, dear Mr. Slavov! I'll start with the last question Mr. Dimitrov asked. It relates to this: is there a notification, a formal notification with regard to our partners in our joint stock company, regarding the development of the project? At present, our joint stockholder in our joint stock company, Gazprom, has not provided official information, written information about what his vision is for the development of the project. At the moment when we have such a clear vision and when we have the official position of our partners from No official position yet. As soon as there is one, the entire process will be analysed as the loan contract is structured so that this loan will be repaid accordingly only from the dividend that the Bulgarian Energy Holding should receive from its participation in this joint stock company. Already in view of what the development of the project will be, the other questions will be answered. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u193	You can't ask any more questions, Mr. Bojinov. [[Heckling]] And you guys are talking? Okay. Next, a question of MP Martin Dimitrov regarding the signing of a final agreement with Greece on the construction of an interconnector gas connection.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u194	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, or rather only gentlemen who remain in this Chamber...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u195	Come on now, no offense, Mr. Dimitrov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u196	I started with a respectable Mrs. President, so you are not missed. The construction of an interconnector gas connection between Bulgaria and Greece is an exceptional priority of the current ruling majority and the government. We are aware that the previous chambers purposely delayed this process and did not want to build such interconnectors. It is, so to speak, a public secret. My question to you, Madam Minister, given the fact that there is a newly elected Greek government, is: have you been able to sign an intergovernmental agreement that will unlock the process so that the future before the construction of such an interconnector with Greece is backed up with the necessary agreement of the two governments, the Bulgarian and the Greek governments, and there is a clear timetable? I hope that this link will be established in the current cabinet's mandate by 2018. I hope that, within the current government, we will have an interconnector with Romania built next year and an interconnector with Greece by 2018. This is an exceptional task so that we are not dependent on a supplier who sets prices as he sees fit and we do not have arguments for alternative imports so that we can negotiate better prices and better conditions. Madam Minister, is there such an agreement? Do you expect that by 2018 Bulgaria will have an interconnector with Greece?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u197	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Madam Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u198	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, first of all I would like to thank you for putting on the agenda this very important issue for Bulgaria and not just for Bulgaria. It is important for Southeast European countries. The construction of the interconnector with Greece will ensure diversification not only of the routes, but also of the sources of natural gas pre-pre-supplied both for our country and for the countries of Central and South East Europe. As part of the development of the southern gas corridor through it Bulgaria will have access to alternative supplies from the Caspian region. The project is also important because of the possibility of importing gas from NG terminals on the Greek coast. The development, financing and construction of the gas interconnection Greece Bulgaria is the responsibility of the joint investment company ISGB, where shareholders with equal shares are the Bulgarian Energy Holding 50%, and Poseidon. Taking into account the importance of this project, at the initiative of the Bulgarian country in order to speed up the project, a roadmap was developed with an accurate schedule of activities under the project until it was built. The roadmap was provided by the shareholders and approved by the energy ministers of Bulgaria and Greece on 22 April 2015 in Sofia during the first high level meeting for the development of the vertical gas corridor. According to the adopted roadmap, the gas connection is planned to be built and put into operation by the end of 2018. Since the beginning of this year, we have been engaged in active negotiations at state and corporate level with our partners. There are very active negotiations going on between them. The achievement and signing of a final investment decision is a very important step towards the realization of this project. In fact, this is the step that will enable this Project to start real and make the process virtually irreversible. At the moment, what we are doing together with our Greek partners is having final negotiations on clarifying the clauses of the final investment decision, mostly related to the technical part of this process. I hope by the end of November that the final investment decision, which is an extremely important document for the development of this project, will be a fact. On our part, all the necessary efforts are made. I had the opportunity to visit Greece to meet with my Greek counterpart, Minister Scorlettis. At this meeting we discussed the importance of this Project. The two countries declared that it is strategic and very important for both Bulgaria and Greece. I very much hope that it will be a fact within the time limits provided for and enshrined in the roadmap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u199	Thank you, Madam Secretary. A line? You're giving up. Accordingly, the doppelganger is out. We move on to the next question by Mr. Petar Slavov about the current price of natural gas for Bulgaria and opportunities for its reduction.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u200	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! This issue further develops the previous issue and concerns the current price of natural gas for Bulgaria, which the Bulgarian economy pays to the Russian supplier a monopoly, and what are the opportunities to negotiate a reduction of this price. The information I have, at least for the first two quarters of the beginning of the year, is that it is one of the highest in the region. Dear Minister, according to informal information the price for 1000 cubic meters of natural gas, which Bulgaria pays to the Russian state-owned monopoly company was close and over 500 dollars for 1000 cubic meters. It is about the period of the first and second quarter of this year and the end of last year. At the same time, the price that other countries of the European Union pay, and even further away from ours to Russia, and with far higher transport costs, is significantly lower, for example, around $380 per 1000 cubic metres, on average for Western European countries. It is no secret that some neighbouring countries to Russia pay a price of even 200 dollars per 1,000 cubic meters, that is, twice as much. The Russian company claims it determines the price based on a complex formula where the price of oil on international markets is present as a component. However, it is a well-known fact that this formula is unofficially called the Love Form, because otherwise there is no economic reason to justify the difference in prices for neighbouring and close-by-sum countries. In this sense, my question, Madam Minister, is: what is the current price of the gas Bulgaria paid in the third quarter of 2015 to the Russian supplier? How does it relate to the cost of paying other countries neighbouring us from the European Union? Is there a price decrease compared to the beginning of the year in view of the significant decline in oil prices? What are the opportunities to achieve a lower price?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u201	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Minister Petkova, you have the floor to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u202	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Slavov, the prices that Bulgargaz is paying to Gazpromekport under the natural gas supply contract are determined by a formula agreed between the parties. It is indexed at three-month periods taking into account the arithmetic average price levels of alternative natural gas fuel oil with a sulphur content of 1%, and for emissions of 0,1%, averaged for a previous 9-month period. Under the influence of the decline in crude oil prices, the prices of alternative natural gas fuels after September In 2014 there was also a significant decrease, which inevitably affected the gas prices supplied by Russia. It should be borne in mind that the contract concluded with the GSzproms contains confidentiality requirements regarding the terms of the contract, including the price of natural gas, in view of which such information on specific prices cannot be made public. Regarding your question about the ratio between the supply prices for Bulgaria and those for neighbouring countries, it is important to note that such a comparison cannot be made without the availability of information and analysis of the conditions of the signed supply contracts that the individual parties have signed. This does not allow me to analyse and draw a parallel by comparing terms and prices. According to the contract with the Gazpromexport (Gazprom) none of the parties may request a review of the contractual price before the end of three years from the date on which the supply of gas under the contract started and none of the parties in the future may require a review of the contractual price before three years have elapsed since the date of entry into force of the last review of that price. Each Party shall have the right to request a review of the contractual price before three years have elapsed, only once within the period of validity of the contract. In January 2014, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333. "Bulgargaz" has already asked for an official price revision, with the result of the negotiations being expressed in a change of the advance payment to "Gazprom". Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u203	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Would you like a line, Mr. Slavov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u204	Thank you. Dear Minister, the question of the price of gas is really interesting and the extent to which, since it is of such an essential public interest, it could be a company, whether it is a monopoly, to rely on a trade secret or other secret, provided that this matter is settled in our legislation. In such a situation, such a matter should be made public, i.e. there should be clarity. Of course, perhaps further we will comment on this issue. I'll get back to the question asked. Rather, it asks what are the options for negotiating at a lower price. You mentioned this restriction, which seems quite incorrect to me, in a contract three years ago, not to allow the price to be renegotiated and a formula laid down a long time ago. I have information from the business that at the moment on the Bulgarian gas market there is an alternative company in which the large supplier participates the Russian supplier, and offers actually a lower price for the Bulgarian business, i.e. offers gas at a lower price. Obviously the price can be reduced, there are ways and opportunities for the price paid by the Bulgarian business to be lower. This is economically justified since a company in which the supplier itself participates allows it. Apparently they won't sell if they don't make a profit. I suppose you know more about this mechanism, which company is it and at what price it offers. If this is indeed the case, please, of course, without revealing what you think it is unacceptable to say, simply to say, is there actually such a offering at a price lower than the one at which Bulgargas is able to offer and, of course, can this not be used as an argument in possible future negotiations or otherwise to achieve better conditions for the price of gas for the Bulgarian business? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u205	Thank you, Mr. Slavov, for the line. Mrs. Minister, you have the opportunity for a dot.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Slavov, very interesting and important is the question you are asking. You understand yourself that what is written as a commitment and as a clause in the contract must be respected because appropriate sanctions are also provided for. It is difficult for me to say who is doing such activity at the moment on the market and at what prices, under what conditions. When raising the question in this way, the specifics must also be known and similar facts and statements must be proved. It's hard for me to prove such a claim. I certainly know the following: the possibility of reducing the price of natural gas, in general for the conditions under which Bulgaria supplies natural gas, this is the diversification of the sources of natural gas supply. When there is competition when there is a market, when there are several sources, then the price and options to be more optimal are completely realistic. So we work to diversify the sources of natural gas supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u207	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We continue by asking the MP Slavi Binev about the policy of guaranteeing the energy independence of the Republic of Bulgaria. You have the floor, Mr. Binev, for the next time today.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, Mr. Dimitrov, Mr. Slavov and Mr. Bojinov [[SIGHS]] , and the Quaestors, of course, and the media representatives! I do not know how it is more correct to say: the energy independence of Bulgaria or the energy dependence of Bulgaria. In any case, it is a matter that needs to be raised and resolved in some way so that Bulgaria is not put on its knees or put in secret at decisive times. Undoubtedly, high energy dependence on imports is one of the biggest obstacles to the development of the Bulgarian economy. We need energy diversification and active cooperation with our partners in energy. Recently, European Commission Vice-President Maros Šefčović focused on energy projects that are a priority for the European Union, but on which we have not yet achieved a result. As an example were given the interconnector gas connections between Bulgaria and neighbouring countries, where there is a serious delay. More efforts need to be made to successfully complete the projects, as well as to accelerate the work of exploring the opportunities for the extraction of energy resources in Bulgarian territory. I don't know if that's even possible.! It is the only way we will make greater progress in terms of energy deversion. In this regard, I ask you to present the measures identified by the Ministry of Energy to ensure Bulgaria's energy independence and, of course, taking into account the local discontent on, say, shale gas, which cannot be ignored, because in general, if we are talking about the amount of energy reserves or resources in the future, this may be just shale deposits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u209	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Minister Petkova, you have the opportunity to respond within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u210	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Binev, one of the main priorities of the government is related to the diversification of sources and routes for the supply of natural gas. In this context, the government is working very actively on building interconnections with neighbouring countries, Greece, Turkey, Romania and Serbia. At the beginning of 2015, at the initiative of the Ministry of Energy in order to speed up the Gas Interconnection Project with Greece, a roadmap was developed with a precise timetable of the activities, according to which the gas connection is planned to be built and put into operation by the end of 2018. We are conducting active negotiations on both the state and corporate level in order to make a final investment decision for the project AIGB within this month. Regarding the interconnection with Romania, the selection of a new contractor is expected under the Danube River. Unfortunately, at the beginning of September 2015 The contractor, who was chosen as a result of a contract previously held, informed Bulgartransgaz. He refused to sign a contract because there were changes in the relationship with his German delegate. Therefore, a new procedure for selecting a contractor for construction works is under way. What I can say is that four offers have been made, which are currently being examined by the Commission under the terms and conditions of the Public Procurement Act. In the absence of new difficulties related to the specific geological structure of the section under the Danube, construction works are expected to be completed in 2016 and the interconnection will be put into operation. Continues ahead of the investment preparation of the interconnection Bulgaria "Serbia." The implementation of the project on Bulgarian territory is divided into two phases. For the first phase the funding is under the Operational Programme "Development of the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy", for the second phase of the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness". The realization of the gas connection from the Bulgarian country is financed by 49 million. EUR under the two operational programmes. At the request of the European Commission, the Bulgarian and Serbian countries jointly developed a roadmap for the implementation of the project. The expected period for putting into service is This Decision shall The inter-system gas connection Turkey is a project for the development of the existing interconnection of the networks of Bulgartransgaz and Botash by creating a technical opportunity to provide conditions for reversibility. Appreciated the benefits of the implementation of the Bulgarian interconnection, Turkey, the European Commission described the project as one of the Bulgarian gas projects of common interest. Thus, the financial support of 190 thousand, which needed to be carried out for this project, was received in advance of the investment study. EUR under the Connecting Europe Facility. The study is planned to end at the beginning of 2016 and to answer a number of questions concerning the choice of route, cost assessment, preliminary environmental impact assessment, project development schedule and others. The main moments for the implementation of interconnection policy envision the southern links with Greece and Turkey to deliver natural gas from Azerbaijan and the existing and new Turkish and Greek LNG terminals for Bulgaria and the region of Southeast Europe. Accordingly, the northern links will ensure the transit through Bulgaria and Azerbaijani gas, and from El-N-G terminals to Romania, Serbia, Macedonia and through them to Central and Eastern Europe, Hungary, Bosnia, Herzegovina, Moldova, Ukraine. In parallel with the interconnection projects Bulgaria attaches key importance to ensuring greater local production of energy resources. That is why one of the government's first decisions was to launch the competitions for the search and exploration of oil and natural gas in the deep Black Sea. As you know, for an area, the holder of the permit has been selected and is about to conclude a contract with him after approval by the Council of Ministers. This is one of the world's leaders in the deep water survey and the company is producing. Shell will invest in the 18,6 million studies. EUR without VAT and will pay the state when signing the contract 4.9 million. EUR excluding VAT, respectively when signing the contract. The proposed work programme of the company includes 2D and 3D seismic studies, as well as measures to protect the environment, human health and cultural values. The study in the block of Han Asparuh is also in progress, for which a contract was concluded in 2012. At the beginning of next year, the first exploration drills in it are still pending. In conclusion, I would add that all these actions that the government has taken are aimed at ensuring the energy security of both Bulgaria and the Southeast European countries. This will guarantee energy independence and greater choice for Bulgarian consumers, which is also in line with the efforts of the European Union for energy diversification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u211	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Binev, the answer was extremely broad, so you can safely formulate up to two supplementary questions within two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u212	Most importantly, it was right on the subject that needs to be developed. In fact, we were referred to as a bad example only because of the delays in projects or because of possible suspicions of corruption, as we did with the signing of the South Stream Treaty? I was a moderator in the discussion between the European Union and the Russian Federation, when it came to the fact that this treaty must be signed before the European Union's eyes and so that no such thing could be obtained with the possible contracts to be concluded on the basis of either the Black Sea as gas projects, whether it be as a demand for shale in the territory of Bulgaria itself, to be signed in such a way that the European Union does not make its claims on contracts that would call into question the appropriateness of their signature. Do not carry a coded message that corruption continues in Bulgaria. Is this opportunity for Bulgaria to have energy independence? It's an extraordinary question that a lot of people ask themselves. Discussions are sufficiently justified in both directions. Of course, I forgot to mention the Black Sea, but my advice is to do everything possible for these contracts to be in the name of Bulgaria's energy independence, not contracts that provide third countries with greater opportunities than for us as citizens of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u213	Thank you, Mr. Binev. I have been able to identify at least one question how real energy independence is, how much is possible for Bulgaria? Come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Binev, the question you are asking is extremely important. It is one of the main priorities of the government in the sector Energy independence in general is more difficult to talk about because in this global world in which we all live, we cannot be completely independent of any other factors and sources. What we are all working on is energy security within the Community, within the European Union. The government is working extremely actively and consistently in this direction. As regards how the contracts will be concluded and whether there will be any doubts about possible corruption actions, I would like to assure you that what is happening in the implementation of these projects is developing within the framework of European requirements. The funding provided under the operational programmes has very strict control, very strict rules in terms of granting, spending, certification of these funds. On our part, all necessary measures and actions have been taken so that these procedures are developed as quickly as possible, but subject to European and national legislation. As for the contracts to be concluded in connection with the deep Black Sea survey and the successful completion of the procedure for the block of Silistar, I would like to assure you that the procedure has developed under the Underground Treasures Act. This procedure is very long as development, but at this moment we are in its finale and we hope it will end successfully. The treaty is concluded entirely in accordance with the legal requirements and we have no reason to doubt the legality of the actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u215	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Binev, you have the opportunity to take an attitude towards the answer of the honourable Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u216	It rarely happens to me, but I really want to thank you for your comprehensive answer, not for anything else, because there is wisdom and competence in it. I must tell you that security is the more true word. Ultimately, this is because it just sounds a little improbable to me in today's world. Indeed, there must be a lot of myths about the deposits, but there must be a lot of reality. You have to see exactly where the dividing line is. I'll repeat my advice. We have an extremely bad example of what has developed with the contradictions of European norms in the conclusion of the previous treaty, which has discouraged a great many people and made a dividing line in society. My advice is: in no way should temptation be allowed in the people who will prepare all this and who will then be disproved by the European institutions, who are already looking at us with extreme suspicion. Thank you for your answers once again and good luck! Have a good weekend!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-06.u217	Thank you, Mr. Binev. I join your wishes. That was the last question for you, Madam Secretary. Have a good day! In general, this was also the last question about today's parliamentary control, which is why it ends. The next meeting of the National Assembly on Wednesday, 11 November 2015, at 9.00 p.m. I'm adjourned today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
