ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] According to the adopted Programme for our work this week, we are going to consider today: SECOND VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON ADDED LOANS. Importers: Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. There's been a report. Procedure Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u2	Dear Madam President, please, on the basis of art. 80 of the Rules of Procedure to extend by three weeks, or a total of four, the period of the bills adopted yesterday in the first vote, namely the Draft for the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System.Search: Tsvetan Tsvetanov; Draft for the State Intelligence Agency. Since there were two of them, I will specify: the importer, Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs, submitted on 11 March 2015; the Military Intelligence Bill and the National Security Service Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u3	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposed extension period between the first and second readings on the four bills adopted yesterday and detailed by Mr. Lazarov. Let's vote. They voted 145 MPs: 129, against 12, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Mr. Popov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am taking a procedure in the manner of conducting precisely with the laws adopted yesterday by the Legal Commission. Yesterday's meeting ended around 16.15 pm, the Commission announced at 16.30 pm from Coalition for Bulgaria none of the representatives had a notification, a text message, in any way that there will be a Legal Commission. I pay attention to you and I ask you to note to the President of the Legal Committee that we cannot in such a way be deprived of our obligations and rights to take part in the meeting of the Legal Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u5	Mr. Popov, there is another order in which you can inform me about how the committees are meeting, but in any case this is not a procedure in the manner of conduct in plenary. Is the procedure again in the manner of conducting the work of permanent committees? Okay, I'll give you a chance. It's probably in the same direction as the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! We have also pointed out that when laws relating to amendments to the Value Added Tax Act, which have a direct impact on the spending part of the budget, there should also be relevant representatives of the Council of Ministers. I therefore invite you to call the Minister of Finance as urgently as possible. Insofar as the next item will discuss the Operational Program "Environment" to invite the Minister of Environment, to call the Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u7	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Please enter into the offices of the three ministers Mr. Georgiev pointed out. Mr. Kirilov, a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Popov, I can't help but ask the floor for an explanation and an answer for your claim.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u9	On what grounds? [[Noise and lines from BSP left Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u10	Whatever Mr. Popov took the floor of.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u11	All members of the Legal Commission, Mr. Popov, have been informed that after the meeting the Legal Committee will meet. I'll make sure you've been notified by electronic means. [[Noise and lines from BSP left Bulgaria.]] Before this meeting of the Legal Committee, I personally spoke with Mrs. Maya Manolova and she was well known for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u12	By setting out half the composition of the Commission and entering into a personal explanation regime, the programme for today has gone to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u13	Mr. Chavdar Georgiev also attended the Commission, who actively participated and voted abstention. [[Noise and lines from BSP left Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u14	Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u15	Dear colleagues! Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I really don't think it would be particularly appropriate to repeat from the parliamentary tribune the talks held in the couloirs related to the meeting of the Legal Committee. But I will also support my colleague, Philip Popov, and I will ask convincingly the Chair of the Legal Commission to be known in advance when and under what conditions the meetings of the Legal Commission are held. Yesterday what I knew was that if the plenary session ended by 3:30, there would be a meeting of the Legal Commission. Otherwise, as the President has assured me, I will receive a telephone call that, although the meeting has been concluded later, the Legal Committee will be sitting. After all, that didn't happen. Drama is not God knows how big, as there were several remaining texts on the PPC, but I turn to the management of the Legal Commission: very please, some of the most important laws are seen in the Legal Commission. It is a accompanying committee on absolutely all the important laws of the other committees. Please inform us in due time about the time and agenda. In cases where there is any change, it should be announced early enough. Otherwise, we will view your behaviour as a desire for the majority, the quadruple coalition to make their own decisions without the opposition, which is not a good testimonial for the work of any Legal Committee in any Parliament. We are about to see some very important laws. I'm paying attention to you. Don't do this without the opposition. Since I have already taken the floor, I appeal to the plenary, to the President of the Regional Commission and to Mr. Kirilov, the Civil Registration Act, which is related to the settlement of voters at the current address to change the outcome of the elections, to be dealt with urgently. If you are sincere that you want fair elections, the Civil Registration Act must enter the Legal and Regional Commission immediately. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u16	Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance for the Second Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Mr. Glauchev will report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u17	Thank you, Madam President. The Commission's Report on Budget and Finance on the Second Reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 554-01-76, submitted by the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova on 9 April 2015, adopted on the first vote on 7 May 2015............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Act for amendment and supplement of the Value Added Tax Act. Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Glauchev and Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. In principle, the Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the Law be amended as follows: the Act supplementing the Value Added Tax Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u18	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal on the name of the law. Vote 134 MPs: 132 against 1, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u19	Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Glauchev and Menda Stoyanova for the creation of a new § 1. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 3 a t. 4 proposals are withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1 with the following wording: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point "3." the person has used funds for the construction, management, maintenance and operation of water systems and facilities in the implementation of water projects under Priority Axis 1 of Operational Programme
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u20	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 1 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 139 MPs: 135, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u21	According to § 1 there is a proposal of the MP Chavdar Georgiev, Georgi Turnovaliski, Christian Vigenin, Tasco Ermenkov, Georgi Gokov and Filip Popov: In the text of the new § 15d: 1. In para. 1 and the expression "of supplies of goods or services' is replaced by the expression "of services received and paid by them and works of construction and works of construction'. 2. In para. 2, p. 2 the expression "September 1, 2015' is replaced by "September 1, 2016'. 3. In para. 3, p. 2 cancels, and the text of t. 1 shall continue the basic text of the subparagraph. 4. In para. 6 A sentence is created second: the Department of Environment and Water provides the National Revenue Agency with information about the certified financial deficit, municipalities and projects. 5. Al. 11 is amended as follows: The provisions of the previous paragraphs shall not apply to water projects without a certified financial deficit. 6. Al. 13 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Members of the National Assembly Dimitar Glauchev and Menda Stoyanova to be divided into § 2 Paragraphs 2 to 7 shall be made available to the following version. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that § 1 be divided into § 2 ..................................................... Paragraph 15 of the Transitional and Final Provisions shall be inserted: ..... 15d......................................................................................... Municipalities registered under this law which have not exercised their right to deduct tax credit within the term of art. 72 for awarded after 1 January 2007 value added tax for supplies of goods or services received from them for the construction of water projects systems and facilities in water projects, including under Priority Axis 1 of Operational Programme Transitional and final provisions § 3. (1) The municipalities shall exercise the right under § 15d of the Transitional and Final Provisions by submitting to the competent territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency a declaration of inventory according to the Annex, within the following time limits: 1. from the entry into force of this Law until 31 July 2015. For the supplies received for which the tax has become due during tax periods from January 2007 to November 2013, including; 2. from 1 January 2016 to 31 July 2016 For the supplies received for which the tax has become payable during tax periods after 1 December 2013, the Commission shall submit a report to the European Parliament and to the Council. (2) For a tax for which the right of tax credit has been exercised under para. 1, the provision of Art. 1. 79, para. 8 shall not apply. § 4. (1) Until the date of conclusion of a contract by the order of art. 198p, para. 1 of the Water Act or any other contract for the retrievable provision of water systems and facilities built in the implementation of water projects, including under Priority Axis 1 of Operational Programme 1. the provision by a municipality to a water operator of assets for management, maintenance and operation; 2. the implementation by the water operator of the maintenance and repair of the assets and the obligation undertaken by him to carry out the water service. (2) Where, after 31 December 2015, no contract has been concluded in accordance with art. 198p, para. 1 of the Water Act or other contract for the retribution of water systems and facilities, when providing the same by the municipality for the management, maintenance and operation of the water operator against its maintenance, at the date of the occurrence of the tax event: 1. for the supply by the municipality to the water operator the tax base is equal to the depreciation of the assets provided, which would be charged by the water operator in accordance with art. 198p, para. 3 of the Water Law; 2. for the delivery by the water operator to the municipality, the tax base shall be equal to the tax base at the acquisition or cost of the goods provided, and in cases where the goods are imported on the tax base at its import or the direct costs incurred in carrying out the service provided relating to the maintenance and repair of the assets. (3) The tax event of deliveries under para. 2, p. 1 and 2 shall occur at the end of each calendar year. § 5. (1) The Ministry of Environment and Water until 31 July 2015 shall provide information to the National Revenue Agency for Municipalities on the amount of the funds to be paid back by the Operational Programme 1 and the bank account to which the funds to be transferred must be transferred. (2) Up to the amount indicated in the order of para. 1, the value added tax subject to reimbursement in the application of § 3 shall be refunded to the municipality by means of a transfer to the bank account indicated by the Ministry of Environment and Water, without taking into account the tax and insurance procedural code with counter-claims of the municipality, and the remainder of the refund tax, if any, shall be reimbursed to the municipality under art. 128 " 129" of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. (3) In the cases under para. 2 the provisions of art. 92 shall not apply and the tax shall be refunded within the time limit: 1. until 31 December 2015 For the tax referred to in a declaration of inventory lodged by 31 July 2015, 2. until 31 December 2016 For tax referred to in a declaration of inventory lodged by 31 July 2016. (4) Claims between the municipalities and the Ministry of Environment and Water arising from inaccuracies in the amounts for which information is provided under para. 1 shall be settled in accordance with the general order. § 6. (1) It is believed that they have lawfully exercised their right to deduct tax credit municipalities which within the term of art. 72 have exercised the right to a tax credit charged after 1 January 2007 a value added tax for supplies of goods and services received from them in the implementation of water projects, including Priority Axis 1 of Operational Programme (2) Paragraph 1 shall also apply to those who are not bound by the law at the date of entry into force of administrative and judicial proceedings. § 7. Where an individual administrative act on the basis of which no right to deduct tax credit for water projects obtained in implementation of water projects has been recognised, including under Priority Axis 1 of the Operational Programme
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u22	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u23	Madam President, honourable Members! In essence, the proposed Bill actually has two main objectives, in my opinion. Firstly, to help municipalities that are in financial debt in connection with the implementation of the water projects and, secondly, to some extent help the water and sewer infrastructure companies. Overall, this seems to be good, but not in this way can be achieved. And colleagues from GERB suggest that we do something that will only make a big mess, which then everyone will have to squirm in future periods. What do I mean? First, in essence, this Bill is absolutely extraordinary and I will explain why. We can't rearrange tax relations. This has never been done before. And how are we going to reorganize and repay tax credit from 1 January 2007? Think about it a little bit! What legal order are we talking about here? And I ask fellow reformers to pay attention, you at least claim to establish a healthy legal order in this country. The colleagues from GERB are not so aware [[Voices: "Eee!" by GERB]] But at least you guys as coworkers like... Okay, that's my opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u24	Mr. Georgiev, please refrain from the qualifications that create disorder in this House!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u25	Okay, it's not a qualification, it's my opinion. Secondly, if we do so, we will cause an unconditional need for a financial correction in relation to the approved projects under Operational Programme "Environment," including those that have already been completed. How do you practically explain this to me? How are we going to do that in practice? And how are we actually going to refund some VAT to municipalities and water companies? Let's take an example. As a result of the implementation of this law, the municipality X will recover the right for a million leva sample tax credit. What are we going to do with this million leva? We're gonna hand it over to the NRA, bring it back? Well, if so, this has a direct bearing on the Budget Act for this year. [[Heckling]] So how am I gonna talk nonsense? You're talking nonsense!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u26	Please don't go directly into dialogue! There is a procedure for this, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u27	It's an emergency law because... Notice what you are proposing in § 7: In the case of an effective tax-taxable act here it is said that an administrative act is, whatever it is, we in this Law cancel it. So how do we cancel? Tomorrow you will decide to revoke judgments and other acts that have already entered into force, have produced their action, and now we are rearranging them. Colleagues, you must not make this mistake! It will weigh on your conscience and you will make huge mistakes in the implementation of this budget and in the completion of the Operational Programme "Environment"! You're essentially blocking this conclusion. I asked Deputy Prime Minister Donchev: is this bill agreed with the Council of Ministers in advance? There was no answer. Is he in agreement with the partners of the European Commission? What if they tell you tomorrow that this is inadmissible state aid and covered-up, including water companies, what will we do then? And the credit you approved will not be enough to return the funds to the European Commission! That is why we are strongly opposed to this extraordinary tax law and we at BSP are not going to support its retroactive action in any way. As far as its action is concerned, we must somehow solve the problems of the municipalities and not of the water companies. The problems of municipalities must be solved in some way! But that's not the way to do it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u28	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Glauchev, for the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u29	By the validity of the bill, I have nothing to say. Mr. Georgiev provoked me with a fling for qualification. However, as a lawyer you should know very well that laws can act retroactively when granting rights, as is the case. They can't act retroactively if there's an obligation and sanctions. You're embarrassing me. I'm not a lawyer to explain these things to you. [[Arrival in GERB.]] By the way, Paragraph 7 of which you mentioned is precisely of this nature... grants rights to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u30	Second line? A hole? Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u31	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Glauchev! No abstract obligations! If this is right for municipalities, it is a budget obligation. So thank you for trying to give me some legal knowledge, but in this case they are absolutely inadequate. Understand, it is not for tax legislation to allow reverse action! We're causing chaos. How will you implement this Law in practice? Will you amend all the annual tax returns submitted so far, amend all the VAT declarations submitted in this period? How will this be done in practice, think about it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u32	For speech there is the word of the people's representative Vladislav Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! From the whole speech of the previous speaker, a colleague was right in one thing that with this Law amending and supplementing the Tax Value Added Tax Act we want to help municipalities and water companies. That's all you were right about, mate! Everything else seems to be... I understand you're a leic, and you're a lawyer. It would rather be experts talking about where accountants or tax experts were, but not you to speak precisely under this Law. Still, let's focus on why we're adopting this Law. We all know that in relation to one suspended funding under Operational Programme the municipalities cannot recover VAT on the costs incurred by them for the value added tax on water projects under Priority Axis 1. It's a fact! I suppose the mayors of BSP also want to recover VAT in the municipalities, but listening to you speak, you will be interfering with them and they will not recover it. You want them not to get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u34	And he was also Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u35	And you, a colleague, were also a deputy minister, and you seem to be very much in this matter. Because you have made several proposals under different paragraphs and presented them in common with nothing concrete. I will draw attention to several of your proposals that you have made that we do not want to support. First, by § 1, you have made a change in the text of the new § 15. I'm going to read it because my colleagues need to know what it's about: "1." In para. 1 and the expression "the supplies of goods or services received by them' shall be replaced by the expression "the services received and paid by them and the works of construction' and the word "inclusive' shall be removed from the comma in front of it. Colleague, I want to explain. If you open the VAT Act, read your art. Art. 68, Art. 69 of Chapter "Tax credit' and the right to deduct a tax credit. Nowhere does payment appear as a reason not to deduct tax credit. The very spirit of the VAT Act is different, so your proposals in this direction are generally illogical. Or maybe you want to change this term because your changes are in a different direction. This proposal of yours I can motivate it this way: The supplies of goods and services for the construction of water systems and facilities cover the costs of construction works. With regard to the proposal that the services be paid, look at these articles in the VAT Act, I told you that there is no such requirement that neither the goods nor the services be paid in order to benefit from a tax credit. It's enough for the tax to be charged. That's the basis. The adoption of such a proposal comes out, as I explained to you, outside the principles of the VAT Act. The adoption of the second proposal, namely the word "inclusive" would limit the application of the provision only to projects financed by the Operational Programme "Environment" (2007 "2013."), and in this case we have funding from municipalities of their own funds. Therefore, I do not see your proposal to be supported. Since I remember that you talked about annual declarations, about VAT references by submitting each month, by changing the Law, not 12 months, but 7 years, for example, municipalities have reason to submit their references and use the tax credit. I mean, the state should give it back to them. That's not gonna happen at all. The budget bill is something completely different, but the effect is 150 million. You were on the Commission, listening to all this and all that stuff, just like I've been listening to them. So what you're saying is what's going to happen, you do realize how many water cycles have been implemented so far. You can take information from two ministries to find out how much VAT is on these projects so far, which have been implemented. Because for those who act, there is no problem for them. With regard to your other suggestions: "3." In para. 3, p. 2 cancels, and the text of t. One goes on. This is § 1 in the text of the new § 15. The proposal is not supported by us. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I apologize, the time is up, but I would like to take some consideration for the next....... to make a statement to develop my motives on your proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u36	A line? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev. They gave you an opportunity to finish, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u37	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Nikolov, in principle you are correct in terms of the interpretation of VAT, but you forget a small technicality. This Law has a retroactive effect, so I say only for the sums paid by municipalities. Otherwise, they shouldn't be in bad financial condition. That's the logic of my proposal, not in the future.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u38	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u39	My line is a reminder because there is talk of the reverse action of the Law. There are laws that are passed, erase the consequences that have occurred. I don't want to lecture on law here. In this case, it is a question of eliminating certain consequences of the adoption of a single law. We're not talking about reverse action. And whether the consequences have occurred one, two, three, five years is a completely different subject. An elemental example is a law when decriminalizes an act. The consequences are taken away and there is no reverse effect. I don't want to talk about amnesty or anything. There are laws that wipe out the consequences.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u40	Mr. Ivanov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Nikolov, allow me to disagree somewhat with the way in which you have presented your arguments. Colleagues are now saying the following: "We do not want to help the municipalities. You didn't have to explain it so expertly because they wouldn't understand it. Explain to the people to hear that they are currently, before the elections, saying that they do not want to help the municipalities. That is what is important in this Law. Everything else is a matter of expertise that needs to be said, the arguments must be put forward during the work of the committees. Here in this Chamber, when you argue your proposals, you really do speak a little bit and politically. I understand that you're a good expert, but whatever you say here, they won't understand it, because their direction is completely different. They explain that the law is bad. Why is he bad? Because we're helping the municipalities. End of story! Elections are coming, let all Bulgarian municipalities and mayors know what these people are talking about! And something else very important! I am not sure that when opinions are expressed here, it is in agreement with the political party that represents the negotiators. When it was the first reading of the Bill, I witnessed how the same opinion was expressed by this tribune, and after a moment there was confusion in this part of the Chamber, sparks and quarrels started flying inside, so we are not talking about any positions that are consistent, which is politics. We're just talking about a little politics. So put a little more emphasis on what's going on in the back, not just expert, because we're hanging otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u42	A hole, Mr. Nikolov, so we don't hang, as Mr. Ivanov said.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u43	Colleagues, I do not know, I think it is not logical that the colleagues on the left do not want to support the Bulgarian municipalities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u44	That's what they do!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u45	Yes, but that's what actions show. Therefore, I would like to hear some of their past mayors and their opinion on this, do they want VAT returned to the municipalities or do they not want it returned? This will be seen in the vote, because that is the most important thing. We can talk a lot of work. I think there are still colleagues on the left who are sober and will support the bill. I'd like to get back to the expertise a little bit. Changes were made to the Water and Municipal Law as owners of infrastructure they are now entitled, by becoming owners of these infrastructure, to be able to exercise the right to tax credit for the costs incurred in building the infrastructure. That is why we are making this bill urgently, and we want to make it easier for municipalities in this way. As regards the first reply, the period for the exercise of the general tax credit and for the costs incurred by municipalities after 1 January 2007 on water projects has expired. We don't have to think about what else to do. The only thing we can do is change the deadline. We introduce new deadlines and thus give the municipalities the right to be reimbursed VAT, and the recovery of the VAT on municipalities for a 7-year period will have an effect on budget revenues. Therefore, a phased exercise of the right to tax credit is proposed within two financial years of 2015 and 2016, depending on the period during which the supplies were received and for which the new period for the exercise of the tax credit is granted. I therefore answer the question of my fellow Member for the budget, whether there will be any changes or difficulties for the budget or the adopted Budget Act by the National Assembly. So, colleague, don't worry, you won't be that size. But if you really think about the Bulgarian municipalities because you know what their state is, support it. Good or bad, this Bill or Law.. because I think it is a matter of some time to accept it, will help municipalities and the opposite effect in obtaining the tax credit will bring contributions to the budget. You all know that thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u46	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Any other MPs for a statement? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u47	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Let us not abuse who supports, who does not support, and who wants. Of course, we all want this so long-awaited solution to the problem of municipalities to be resolved.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u48	Here!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u49	At a meeting of the Budget and Finance Committee, the Bill at first reading was adopted. At second reading, we make proposals that we think are important. I thank my colleague Nikolov for trying to motivate them. I'll say our motives. Firstly, with regard to the requirement to pay for supplies. Yes, my colleague, you are right. The VAT Act does not put such a requirement in order to have the right to a tax credit. But with this bill, we make an exception. We change the term in which the tax credit can be used from 12 months to a much larger period. So there is no problem with the Bill to change this requirement as regards tax credit. Why do we demand that supplies be paid? Colleagues, we are talking about supplies that are from the beginning of 2007. It is very likely that a large part of them are not paid out, as the tax credit for some or other reasons has not been recognised and has not been used by the municipalities. If there are such unpaid deliveries, what is the problem, after helping municipalities with this Law, to help businesses and to oblige municipalities to pay off the Bulgarian business? I don't see anything wrong with that. If the supplies are paid off, okay, there's no problem. That's the point of our proposal. With regard to the second part, in § 1, point 1, as you read it, in the reasons of the Bill you say that it restores the right to tax credit for projects implemented and financed under Priority Axis 1. At the same time, the Law allows a tax credit for all projects, including those under Priority Axis 1, to be reimbursed since 2007. This will include various projects to which the right to tax credit has been refused on a different basis. It will create chaos, it will affect the work of the administration. Yes, the Budget Committee was attended by representatives of the NRA, but these are people who are cut off from operating downstairs, and believe that this will really create huge problems at some of this will be recognised, in others will be hidden, in others will enter into long administrative procedures. And one more thing, a very small part of the municipalities have had tax revisions and this will create a problem for the municipalities. I guarantee it, as it will require such revisions in themselves in any case. ) (a.k.a. 2 We propose to change the deadline from 1 January 2016 on 1 September 2015. We motivated this to happen earlier for municipalities to be able to use this tax credit, this shows our concern for municipalities and our desire to recover this tax credit as quickly as possible. The Commission did not accept it because it did not accept, in general, our proposals made in § 1. With regard to the reverse action and the administrative acts already in force, I also believe that this will create tension and discomfort in the system of decisions and cases of them will be used the right to tax credit and that will tempt municipalities to try to fill their local budgets with funds from recovery of tax credit and will create a problem for the system. But it's your decision, you vote it. We have to say what's bothering us, so we say it, and there's no way we can support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u50	- What's the line? I won't. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Please allow to vote the procedure for admission in the plenary of Mrs. Yana Georgieva, Director of the Operational Program "Environment" by the Ministry of Environment and Water.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u52	The minister is here, the lady in question, what will she tell us more than the minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u53	As it is nevertheless directly involved with the operational programme itself.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u54	I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in plenary. Vote 95 MPs: 77 against 7, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, invite the guest. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Chavdar Georgiev, Georgi Turnovalyski, Christian Vigenin, Tasco Ermenkov, Georgi Gokov and Philip Popov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 102 MPs: 24, against 53, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal, namely § 1 by importer, to be divided into paragraphs by the number from § 2 to § 7 including, prior to § 3 the creation of a division of We are voting on the proposal on the Commission report. They voted 102 MPs: 84, against 11, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u55	Under § 2 there is a proposal from the MPs Dimitar Glauchev and Menda Stoyanova: Paragraph 2 to become § 8 and to be amended as such. The Commission supports the proposal in principle and the application is created in its systematic place after § 9. The Commission proposes to reject § 2 by importer as the application was created in its systematic place after § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u56	What is the Commission offering us now?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u57	Let's reject § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u58	Then we'll get to §9 with the new proposal. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 2 by importer to be rejected. They voted 99 MPs: 81, against 4, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u59	Proposal by the MPs Dimitar Glauchev, Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova to create new paragraphs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish paragraphs 8 and 9 with the following wording: ................................................................................... In the Law on Bankruptcy (prom., SG No. .....) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 2, p. 8 shall be added at the end, including by requesting the issuing of an order for immediate execution in accordance with Article 8. 418 of the Civil Procedure Code on the basis of an extract from the books of accounting. (b) in para. 4 words of art. 41, para. 1, t. 1 "3, 5 and 6," para. 2, p. 1.. 5 and 3. 6.. are replaced by...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 41, para. 1, t. 1 "3, 5 and 6," para. 2, p. 1 " 5" and " 3" and "6" and "6" and "6" and "6" and "6" respectively. Art. 57, Art. 59, para. Article 7 60, para. 4............................................................................................ 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 57 is In case of recovery of claims of the bank, the claims under para. 3, as well as production under para. 5, State fee shall not be collected in advance. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 59th para is In the case of claims under para. 3 and 5 shall not be charged in advance to the State. If the claim is respected, the next state fee shall be collected by the condemned party, and if the claim is rejected, the state fee shall be collected from the bankruptcy table. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62 para. 2 is amended as follows: "The Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, If the claim is respected, the next state fee shall be collected by the condemned party. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 72, par.2 sentence first is added to the Bulgarian National Bank. § 9. Paragraph 8 shall enter into force from the day of the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u60	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u61	Madam President, honourable Members! Here's another proof that we are now adopting an extraordinary law. When did we discuss changes to the Bankruptcy Act at first reading?! What do these changes to this Law have to do with the amendments to the VAT Act, whose objectives you have been explaining so far?! This is absolutely unacceptable and in violation of our Rules! These texts should therefore not be allowed to vote. If they are allowed to vote, we will be absolutely against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u62	You're making a procedural proposal not to let him vote? [[Reply from the MP Chavdar Georgiev away from the microphones.]] No procedural proposal has been made in view of our Rules of Procedure. Are there any lines to that statement? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs 8 and 9 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: 81, against 10, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u63	The Commission proposes to create an Annex to § 3, para. 1 with the relevant content, which is in the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u64	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create an Annex to § 3, para. 1 in a graphical and text version of the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 83 against 11, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: REPORT ON THE SITUATION OF THE ARGUED AND ARGUED FORCES OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA IN 2014 The report will introduce us to the Chairman of the Defence Commission Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u65	Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u66	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before I propose the Report, I propose a procedure: to invite the Deputy Minister of Defence Mr. Kyumurdzhiev and the Deputy Chief of Defence Lieutenant General Popov to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u67	We are voting on a procedure for access to this House. Vote 75 MPs: for 73, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Come in with the report, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u68	♪ I can't believe on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2014, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 March 2015. At a regular meeting held on 2 April 2015, the Defence Committee discussed the Defence Committee sent to the National Assembly and approved by Decision No 209 of 27 March 2015 of the Council of Ministers Report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2014. In its decision, the Council of Ministers proposed to the National Assembly in accordance with the attached draft decision and reasons for it to examine and adopt the report. 18 MPs attended the meeting. The Commission's work was attended by Defence Minister Nikolay Nenchev with representatives of the Directorates of the Ministry of Defence and Prime Minister Anu Angelov's adviser. On behalf of the importer, a brief exposé was made by the Minister of Defence. The report shall be prepared on the basis of art. 23 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and according to the reasons for the proposal of the Council of Ministers, it presents to the National Assembly and society an objective picture of the state of defence and the armed forces of the country. Developed in detail, the report concerns most aspects of the management, command and organizational activities of the Ministry of Defence and the Bulgarian Army. It is a reflection of the state's real state of defence in terms of increasingly unstable and unpredictable military policy environment in regional and transcontinental terms. What is constructive in the report is the critical and self-critical view of internal management approaches and implementation of defence policy priorities. Particular attention is paid to the policy of transparency, accountability, effective governance and the fight against corruption practices. The report elaborates on the state of the resources provision of the Armed Forces. It is stated that the Republic of Bulgaria and its armed forces are facing the challenge due to insufficient insurance to look for new routes to carry out their assigned missions and tasks. The finding of an optimal balance between planned capabilities and available resources dominates the draft budget of the Ministry of Defence, which the report defines as extremely insufficient. The detailed comparative data for the period 2007-2014 show that the cost of defence in percentage terms of gross domestic product has decreased from 2.3% to 1.34%, with which our country falls, along with other Union countries in the Golden Environment. In absolute values, however, the cost of defense is only BGN 117. or 60 euros a year per capita, which is five or more times less than the average of our Alliance allies. The low absolute values of the military budget did not allow the separation in 2014 of higher than 1,38% of it for modernisation and re-arming, which slows down the process of reaching planned defence capabilities. The report detailed the main activities of the three Armed Forces missions and the degree of implementation of the ten main programmes with their underlying problems. An analysis was carried out on the preparation of the three types of Armed Forces, based on the implementation of 236 national and 71 international exercises on a different scale. They are successfully certified by NATO authorities two battalion battle groups, and 26 formations of the declared forces have met the criteria under the NATO capabilities targets. In the motives of the Council of Ministers to the proposals The draft decision of the National Assembly is rightly stated that their certification has been carried out with a number of conventions and limitations in their interoperability and readiness for combat use. In the implementation of the Armed Forces mission, the Bulgarian Army participated in 12 peace-keeping operations abroad with 1043 officers, sergeants, soldiers and civilians. The contribution of 95 formations of the Bulgarian Army maintained constant readiness and carried out 167 operational and tactical actions in the rescue and evacuation of people and material values in floods in the country, fire extinguishing, ammunition disposal, ground cleaning and medical evacuation. 1771 servicemen and 443 units of military equipment participated in these activities. Significant assistance has also been given to the state authorities to control the increased migration traffic and pressure. In the report, the analysis of the Armed Forces and Technology, investment projects, the utilization of surplus ammunition, the assembly of personnel, the military-education system, the combat and logistics security is optimisticly linked to the upcoming presentation of a new Programme for the Development of Defence capabilities of the Armed Forces by 2020 and a new Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces. A significant place has been allocated to the steps taken to improve defence management, focusing on the implementation of project planning and management. The report ends with nine leading priorities for the implementation of which focused the efforts of the Ministry of Defence's leadership in 2015, in full compliance with the priorities set by the sector. In the discussion of the so presented report took part the MPs Valentin Radev, Plamen Manushev, Korman Ismailov, Milen Mihov, Angel Naydenov, Neno Vlaikov and the President of the Commission. His opinion in the discussion was expressed by Prime Minister Anyu Angelov's adviser. The MPs united around the thesis that the report on the state of defence and the Armed Forces for 2014 was well structured and together with this disturbing and politically challenging. It reflects the actual state of defence and the Armed Forces, which, according to some of the members of the Commission, should lead to an update of the defence budget, a temporary modernisation and re-arming of the main types of troops of the three types of Armed Forces. 18 MPs took part in the vote held after the discussion. By 16 votes for the People's Assembly, 1......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the report on the state of defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2014, submitted to the National Assembly on 30 March 2015 by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u69	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. I'm opening the debate on your proposal for a report. Is there a wish to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u70	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. General! I am also beginning with the finding that this is, in my opinion, an objective report giving a realistic picture, sufficiently reasoned. Problems have been brought out to highlight the main problems, because in principle, many more and substantial enough can be pointed out. I must admit, of course, the professionalism of experts from the specialized Directorates of the Ministry who have worked on this report, including on the directions that outline future efforts. The report, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, outlines a very disturbing picture of the state of the defence sector, a picture at the heart of which chronic underfinancing stands. And here I wish to some extent colleagues from GERB's parliamentary group would recognise their responsibility for this underfinancing. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in 2009, we have the most significant reduction in defence funds by 40%, with this reduction in funds being the second in size within NATO after Estonia by 42%. Why am I noting it? Because, apart from being a problem for the financing of defence, these reduced funds are currently the basis on which all the defence funds are planned in the period from 2009. Speaking of underfinancing, we are actually talking about the main reason, leading to one of the main conclusions in this Report......................................................................................... and adding, therefore to increasing uncertainty! This can also be said in another way "decreasing protection and degree of security of military, respectively national security, of defence. Please note, as MPs from all parliamentary groups, this interpretation of the main conclusion in the report. Let us not be reassured by another of the main conclusions that the Armed Forces are able to fulfil their responsibilities. An even more alarming addition is that this is achieved with additional load and risks to the life and health of the personnel! What else does "power generation erosion" mean? It means reducing the capacity and capacity of species and families of troops to carry out their tasks and responsibilities on land, air and water. Look, we're talking about constantly reducing the capabilities of the three types of armed forces, regardless of these more than 1 billion. BGN, which has been spent since 2004 for modernization projects. In fact, they prove how much and how necessary the funds are for modernization and re-arming of the Bulgarian army. Let it be clear that the latest samples of weapons and fighting equipment were adopted in 1984 " 1985" and, however maintained, they lag behind dramatically both as a concept and as capabilities. I would like to draw your attention to another conclusion at the end of the Report on the critical state of arms and fighting equipment currently in the Bulgarian Army! Moreover, underfinancing means continual delay and failure to meet the objectives for the capabilities of the Bulgarian Armed Forces, set as part of the collective defence planning within the Alliance. Each one can see the findings in the report that from 55 targets set for the period 2014 - 2028 - worth a little more than 2 billion. 300 million. BGN, 38 are from previous years and from previous packages! How do we think our partners view us and how much is our word, figuratively speaking, that is, our planning? Often we say: "NATO will protect us, forgetting that collective defence is a sum of the defense capabilities of each member country, that each country also closely monitors its defence spending and that other countries also do not want to have large costs, making up for the lack in the budget of the other member states, including, of course, Bulgaria. They also have public opinion, therefore there are needs of other budgetary systems of more funds. By the way, I am among those who are convinced that it is absolutely the wrong approach to resisting the needs of different budgetary spheres and social systems. I haven't heard a country, however rich it may be, say that its social systems are satisfied and will direct its resources to defence. That is, if we follow this logic, then the security sector will always be somewhere at the end of the line and there will always be pό urgent needs. However, let us not forget that the risks and threats do not comply with such circumstances, and the requirements and expectations for the army are not reduced, are not reduced, including in peace time! For example, in the case of severe disasters and natural upheavals, we require the intervention of specialized military formations with transport and engineering equipment, but then do we ask ourselves: what is the technique being restored and maintained, delivered in the 1970s and early 1980s, and a technique that has a primary purpose for military time?! Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, the allocation of funds in the armed forces, in particular in the Bulgarian Army, is in a ratio of approximately 75:21:4, where 75% is the funds for salaries and social security, 21% is the current maintenance, including teachings and combat training, and 4% for capital expenditure. In order for modernization and re-arming to take place, these 4% must reach a minimum of 15%! It must be clear that the opportunities for increasing these funds by reducing staff and, therefore, for transferring funds from salaries and social security to capital expenditure have been exhausted. In addition to being the most reformed structure, the Bulgarian Army has reached the sanitary minimum as a number and whatever further cuts are made, the savings would be negligible. The same applies to the proceeds from the sale of property, respectively property of the Ministry of Defence. It is an illusion to think that within these approximately 1000 properties, which are guarded around 420, true.. at a cost of about 1 million per month for the protection of these properties, it is an illusion to think that these funds can create some huge fund from which to finance the Modernization Program of the Bulgarian Army! In fact, sales would rather have been important in reducing security and maintenance costs than in raising funds. For this Programme we are talking about, the modernization of the Bulgarian Army requires no less than 200 million per year by 2028 at present, pay attention to 50 million! I pay so much attention to resources, because everything else, ladies and gentlemen, is up to them. Why and how do we comment on the preparation of the Land Troops, the Air Force or the Navy, such as the number of exercises, shootings, hours of sluggishness, days of the sea, and it is clear that we are falling behind the regulations not because of the unwillingness of commanders and servicemen, but because of the lack of funds and because of limited opportunities to use the technique, so that I do not say that because of the exhausted resources of the equipment? Once again, I bring you back to the eloquent conclusion of the critical state of arms and fighting equipment! I conclude with the position that I will support and in this direction is the position of the parliamentary group to support the decision to adopt the report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2014, and I would just like to draw your attention to the rest of the problems. About two. The first one I would very much like, including, of course, in the direction of the future efforts of the Ministry, and as an understanding of the plenary, apart from the specialized Commission, to have clarity on which are the specialization zones of the Bulgarian Army within NATO and respectively of Bulgaria's specific contribution to European defence. Let me give you some of the smaller sides. It is clear when we talk about the abilities of the United States that they are ahead of European partners by more than 20 years in different directions, they have abilities that some of the countries do not have. In fact, seven are areas of critical shortage of abilities within the Alliance. Of course, unfortunately, Bulgaria is not in a position, does not have the capacity to compensate for such shortages. I will not set an example for the big European countries either. But, see, when we talk about Estonia, most of the military specialists, for example, understand its contribution and accordingly specialization as a country that has capabilities within cybersecurity and cyber security, respectively electronic means. Or when we talk about the Czech Republic, it is clear that there is talk of a country that has specific contributions and abilities within the framework of nuclear, chemical, biological protection. I wish in the same way that it would be clear Bulgaria in which areas it has specialization and at the same time has abilities at an extremely high level. They can be two, three, four. This could be military medicine, it could be cyber-defense, it could be intelligence within multi-component intelligence, it could be ground-based intelligence. The abilities of the special forces may be to some extent, but it can be clear what Bulgaria specializes in. And another thing that may not seem so significant against the background of this debate on the specialization funds, says this report, for 2014 on the initial military training, which started in 2014 the students in higher schools, have not reached, and therefore in the case of the stated interest of nearly 900 students from 11 higher education institutions, respectively, have not provided training opportunities for everyone who has declared their wish. In my opinion, this should be part of the attention in the planning of the funds, because this is an opportunity to acquire specific knowledge, skills for people who, anyway, do not fall within the framework of military training due to the professional status of the Bulgarian servicemen, but the opportunity to acquire certain knowledge, including as part of the training in patriotism, patriotism, patriotism, survival skills in crisis situations and, of course, knowledge of the Armed Forces and of the basic weapon, which is armed in the Bulgarian Army. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u71	Thank you, Mr. Angel Naydenov. I'm sorry I misspelled your name. Consider this an error in the language. Line. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Naydenov, I will address a certain part of your exposé in which you mentioned the cost of defence for 2009. Yes, in 2009, they were made redundant, but let's not forget that 2009 was the biggest financial crisis in the world over the last 70 years. That couldn't help but affect our defense spending. However, in this period, entire countries went bankrupt and measures had to be taken. A lot of money has also been spent on modernization over a billion and six hundred and forty million, but the question is what went and what abilities have actually been achieved. From 2009 to 2013, we found over 600 million uninsured but committed financial commitments for modernisation, which the GERB government first, in the biggest financial crisis, managed to pay, so that in 2013 the Ministry of Defence did not have obligations on its main accounts. Also in 2014, the defence budget was already at 1.42% of gross domestic product, i.e. one construction, exiting the process of spending crisis. The point is to really maintain the level necessary for defence spending, and I would like to point out here that you have very rightly pointed out that much more attention should be paid to the costs of military training, and to the military training of students, voluntary military training, as the composition of people who have gone through the years of military training, much greater are the opportunities for developing future staff through the student programmes than, for the simple reason that the population, little or very concerned, those who have acquired some military training, and that is why it should really be a focus for this year and for the future to develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u73	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u74	Dear Mr. Gajev, I have noted this reduction and I have not expected and I am not seeking an explanation within the framework of the global financial crisis, but it is the fact that we are present, including in all assessments and analyses, which are made by our partners in the Alliance precisely with this reduction. If you pay attention to all tables, references, schedules see this drastic reduction. It is no coincidence that I mention that we are second in terms of the reduction in defence funds after Estonia. What is more worrying is that this reduced base has been used to plan the funds since 2009 and we, as you can see, cannot reach the percentage of the gross domestic product we had in 2009. The sixth year is planned as far as I understand, regardless of the National Security Advisory Council, again the budget forecast given by the Ministry of Finance is not 1,35, as the commitment made or as the recommendations of the Advisory Council were respectively, but is moving again within 1.1. That's the big problem. On this basis, we cannot provide the necessary means for the implementation of the Program for Modernization and the development of the defense capabilities that are needed by the Bulgarian Armed Forces and Bulgaria. Let me be clear.. I say this with all the anxiety that brings a similar finding. Fifty million leva, 4% capital expenditure in the Ministry of Defence does not allow the necessary modernization program to be implemented. These are funds which in no case allow any of the projects identified under these nine priority projects to be implemented in the period up to 2024 to be launched. As to what was bought with more than 1 billion. BGN, I can't answer that. These are mainly vehicles, helicopters, helicopters, helicopters, helicopters, to some extent for the naval forces, Spartans and, of course, more than 200 armored vehicles for the needs of the Land Troops. It also creates some kind of defense capability. Another question is what was the assessment, what was the military expertise to focus the attention and realization of the projects to this type of platforms or relevant equipment. As far as the unsecured funds are concerned, [[the President gives a signal of time running out]] ... I'm done, Mr. Chairman. Look, if we start now a project to buy a new multi-purpose aircraft, it's clear that there's no way to remove it now, at the moment 1 billion. lv. And be paid? They will be paid over the years, i.e. such a project will involve more than one mandate, these are at least three mandates, therefore the following governments will always have the reason to say: "You have bequeathed us debts, uninsured funds" because these funds will not sit anywhere in a tape in a bank, they will be budget funds that will be planned within a minimum of ten years.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u75	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. Mr. Ianko Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Deputy Chief of Defence! The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support the report on the state of defence and the armed forces. Honourable Members, we will support it with pain and with the painful feeling that by supporting it, we are aware of the real state of the defence sector. In this regard, we absolutely must say that the report is insufficiently critical, even in places that are unrealistic, but this approach in terms of expertise is correct, because it is not necessary for everyone to understand the real situation and to underestimate ourselves undeservedly in the system of NATO's collective defence sector. Very often, honourable Members, in our debates it is quoted that the main reason for the real state of the defence sector is the financial resource. That's not true at all. This is the main reason, but it is not the only reason that actually led to this result of the defence sector in Bulgaria and its problems................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Because in all these years, I have been in parliament for ten years, we have not been able to reach political consensus in the most fundamental element of national security, the sector of demand, nor in terms of priorities for the modernisation of the army, nor in terms of the social status of the people working there, and their motivation, nor in terms of programmes, objectives and so on. Everyone who came to power, honourable Members, is starting to develop some kind of independent programme, and as we have just heard from the former minister, especially the modernisation programmes require a time resource that significantly surpasses the constitutional mandates of the designated political entities who take power. So, in fact, we absolutely must say today that if we do not reach a consensus on the urgent measures to be taken in the defence sector, on the programme that is presented to achieve the objectives of the armed forces, on the real priorities of modernisation, we will not only have problems with our NATO partners, which is a very important problem for us, the security system, but also a very serious national problem with regard to all these programmes, the laws we adopt relating to the national security of the country. And this, sooner or later, honourable Members, will be given to us as an assessment by the Bulgarian voters. In the defence sector and in the report we have three main elements, colleagues. One is the technical security and the state of the technique; the second is the human resource, its quantity and quality as a professionalism, its preparation, and the ability of the defence system to provide it in a timely manner; and the third is the organisation, or as we now call it, the management of the defence sector, which is also related to our role in this aspect, namely the regulatory provision, management and updating of all activities in this sector relating to the dynamics of threats that are very, very serious and already very different. Here definitely, colleagues, we have to say that in terms of technical condition and provision with sufficient equipment in many aspects we do not need modernization, but we need resuscitation in terms of state of the art, provision of supplies for this technique. It's in many places, her condition threatens the lives of the servicemen who use it. Consider what this is about! And we are the border of the European Union, the border of NATO here. Threats are getting more and more serious. We are subject to ongoing dependence, especially in the air force, from countries that are not members of NATO, which is a problem for the armed forces of Bulgaria. We do not question the qualities of the Migs, of these fighters, no one contests them. But look, colleagues, the ability to restore one fighter depends on other people, on other technical elements, not on us. And here to all former defence ministers regarding the military industrial complex of Bulgaria and its participation in the modernization of the armed forces a complete tragedy, honourable Members! See what's going on at the Terem and now the dismissals and appointments of people who don't know anything about what they're supposed to do. The plants are in critical condition. The financial resources of "Terem" are also in critical condition. Where did the offset programs go that should enable Bulgaria's military industrial complex to participate directly in the modernization of the Bulgarian Armed Forces? We need to ask ourselves the question here as MPs: is this dualist subjugation actually part of the Ministry of Defence's military industrial complex, part of the Ministry of Economy, what is the benefit and should it be so?! And what is the connection, what is the synergy, for example, between the scientific technical potential of the Ministry of Defence, the military schools that spend public resources and the opportunities for their scientific technical potential to be used in the Bulgarian economy? What is the effect for the Bulgarian economy of our participation in the program? By what criteria do we modernize the army? We're buying from a place where we need them most? Frigates from somewhere else, do we need them most? What is it about and whether we will ever reach this consensus? We're out of fighters. We knew we were gonna stay ten years behind, and we did nothing, fellow Members. From this point of view, I'm also going to the second element. This is perhaps the element that has the greatest dignity of personnel. The high professionalism of the Bulgarian military and their courage and ability to endure the difficulties should perhaps receive our gratitude as MPs. But, honourable Members, we are, I think, about three thousand incompletes. Do you know how many officers make our military schools every year? In ten years, we can't fill out this element. And again we are experimenting with the social status of the Bulgarian servicemen, with the people deprived of 12 rights that other Bulgarian citizens have on the Constitution. Perhaps we will discuss, but we will be opposed to a possible incorrect approach to increasing retirement age, because the difficulties our officers, sergeants and soldiers are working under are extremely serious. Dear colleagues, many times we have declared it and now we say: for us it does not matter who rules the country. The National Security of Bulgaria is the main priority of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. We will support any sensible idea that will improve the defence sector. Here, yesterday's adoption of the right laws was one of those elements. We've reserved a service for military information in the Ministry of Defence system, Mr. Deputy Minister. It was very important that this happened at the Department of Defense. Dear colleagues, we need to know that the budget that is being allocated is directly dependent on the country's economy. By preventing the country's economy from developing, we are preventing enough funding from the defence sector. But there are other approaches. There is a lot of money being spent in the Ministry of Defense for activities that are not directly related to the defence sector. These new innovative approaches, of the new type of management in the defence sector system, make it possible to achieve maximum efficiency in terms of Bulgaria's defence capabilities with a small increase in the amount of financial resources for the Ministry of Defence. These efforts must be made at all times. I am convinced that both the government and the prime minister, who understands national security, who is one of the few premieres during this period, who understands this matter, I think we will be able to convince him if we have properly constructed demands so that we can adequately, in due time, gradually, but irrevocably make such a defence sector of Bulgaria that we defend our airspace, the country's territory, national security, and in the conditions of disasters and accidents, because the Ministry of Defence will have to become a polyfunctional structure. It is inevitable, and the people who work in the Armed Forces to work with desire, honor, dignity and to feel that people performing one of the most important missions of the Bulgarian nation and state. What has been said about young people we cannot introduce the military service, but we can make young people responsible for the defence sector of Bulgaria by giving them a little insight into competence, the reality of threats and the ability to deal with them in a purely civil situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u77	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Mr. Milen Mihov has the floor for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we at the Patriotic Front will support this report. We appreciate it very much. This report is honest and we would say that it is honest to the extent of its possibilities. We therefore respect and highly appreciate the Ministry of Defence and the Council of Ministers for submitting such a document to the National Assembly. What does this report tell us? It tells us a few very important things that the environment in which Bulgaria exists and develops is too worrying. It is saturated with crisis moments close to the Bulgarian borders. These crisis moments pose a serious threat to Bulgarian national security. These processes are not fleeting, but lasting and have the potential for deepening. What is Bulgaria's ability to guarantee its national security? In the brief motives of the report, I would like to quote three very precise wordings that answer this question: defence failure, a number of restrictions in interoperability and readiness for combat use, poor state of arms and equipment and behind in modernisation and re-arming plans. Something much more curious. On page 57, it is mentioned that the requested and certified parts for NATO and the European Union are actually equipped with the same equipment and the same equipment. This gives us the serious conclusion that after 25 years of management, the system parties all those who managed the country led to the situation today to rely on our own defence and security with the most valuable and the greatest capital, the courage, the skill, the honor of the Bulgarian soldiers, officers and sergeants. And if God forbid, we are faced with a test, we will have to pay dearly for the lack of equipment, of weapons, of communications, of what is most valuable to us. We are also troubled by another very important fact, which is shown in this report that Bulgaria is very much behind in the development of its defence system not only towards the major military forces in Europe, not only towards our partners in NATO and the European Union, but is worryingly and substantially lagging behind in the funds, but, therefore, the potential for defence with its immediate neighbours. We live in the Balkans, where our history has burdened us with many problems, with many relationships that are specific, unique, which cannot be inserted into common European or other matrices. This report clearly states that nearly 10 times less separates Bulgaria for defence and the Armed Forces against its neighbours and our NATO partners. If Bulgaria is in the group of member states of the Alliance, separating less than 2% or about 2% of gross domestic product, then our partners in NATO Greece, Romania and Turkey spend between 15 and 20% on defence. This disproportion imposed in time is something that gives rise to certain concerns in Bulgaria and the need for quick, urgent adoption of a long-term program for the development of the Bulgarian defense system. The clear conclusion in the report is very disturbing that the erosion of the defence capacity of the Republic of Bulgaria is deepening. This is perhaps the most diplomatic formula that expresses the essence and trends for development and guaranteeing the country's defence capabilities. In support of this report, we will take a first step towards formulating a long-term programme and policy, I hope with the general agreement of all political parties in this Parliament on the development of Bulgarian defence capabilities. We at the Patriotic Front are focusing on three issues. The first: to provide the financial resources for the implementation of such a programme. This financial resource must ensure sustainability over time, sufficient resources and must become a factor not only of spending money on the purchase of weapons and equipment, but of developing the Bulgarian military industrial complex and as an important incentive for the development of the Bulgarian economy. Secondly, we are again raising the issue of reforming the Armed Forces and restoring compulsory military training. We must clearly declare that this idea, which, at first glance, relates to the restoration of the barracks known to us from the time of the Warsaw Treaty, is something different. The condition of the reserve, the shortage of officers, the shortage of personnel, clearly shows the need to ensure the rapid preparation of sufficient men and women capable of military service. Next, the restoration of compulsory military training in the forms known by partner countries is in line with the country's financial capabilities, and this can provide a good development of military potential through reasonable financial costs. The fact that colleagues quoted that even now, in the first steps in this direction for voluntary training of our students in initial military training, there are more than the financial capabilities of the Ministry, show that such an idea is supported by the Bulgarian society. The recent survey that 25% of Bulgarians are ready to fight for their homeland, we see it as an optimistic message that the army enjoys authority, the service in defence of the country is a public value. Thirdly, we have looked very carefully at the part of the People in Defence and we believe that efforts should be made here for the moral and psychological education and training of both the Armed Forces and the Bulgarian youth. Indecent cases of the Bulgarian Army, let's call it this way, the conduct of personnel soldiers in the Bulgarian Army raises the question that the upbringing in the spirit of the traditions of the Bulgarian Army, the upbringing in the spirit of patriotism, the moral and psychological training of soldiers and officers is a matter which is decided in every army that stands before all the Armed Forces and it should be before us. That is why we also ask the question of such education and training for young people both in universities and in Bulgarian schools, and we insist and we will defend the introduction of military training in the Bulgarian school in the adoption of the Law on preschool and school education. With these words, I thank you and once again declare the support of the Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u79	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Are there lines? I won't. To make a statement, Mr. Toshev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. General! I'd like to start with a definition of what we're looking at right now. This is an extremely important political act and I would like to thank you, although I do not have this right, personally on behalf of myself, to thank my colleagues who spoke before me, as well as yesterday, the debate was, for the most part, extremely professional, expert and with concern for the problems of the army and therefore of all our national security. This report, which we will now adopt by an act of the National Assembly, is an information document which has an extremely important role to play in the formation of society and in creating an empathy of every Bulgarian to the problems concerning national security, the army and the Armed Forces. I would like to call on the Meeting for consideration, not of the report, but of our security problems. Because the report is a document which we will formally approve in some form, but we need to understand what they are and complement the problems, ways of solving them and the prospects for the Armed Forces. A formal act that is based on the Defense Act and the Armed Forces, we must turn into a conversation and turn into a conversation about the problems of the army. The report is a merit of political leadership, but mainly of the professional and expert leadership of the Ministry of Defence, really expert and almost lacks political nuances in it. Personally, I think this is good not only because of the fact that last year's "2014" issue, there were three defence ministers, but in principle this is the way to approach a party and a supernational institution, such as the Armed Forces and our army. I think that this approach should be maintained, as well as the attitude of the Assembly to the Act of the Ministry should be maintained in this way. I think that although the issue of financial shortages has been raised in all the speeches so far, this is a trend that I would not like to break down by year and by year, but this is a trend that I hope we will overcome in subsequent reports also not to take into account the critical state of armaments and equipment, as well as the growing important factor of human, when solving the tasks and missions of the Bulgarian Army. The report reported, as well as the Commission's opinion, which Gen. Mihov presented here to us that we are about to look at an extremely important document that needs to continue, the so-called White Book, which expired at the end of last year, the programme for the development of the Armed Forces by 2020. I hope that a large part of the problems, conclusions and ways of solving them, which have been seen in this report on the state of defence in 2014, will soon be presented to our attention as basic and those in the 2020 programme of our attention. But I think that we should already say our heavy word there as people who are concerned about the overall state of national security and in particular the Bulgarian Army. Colleagues, it's a very difficult question, because money is one thing. It is also a very difficult issue when we insist on increasing the military budget, because we have to decide where to get social activities, health care, education. There's nothing else, that's all. Here is our heavy responsibility. I don't think anyone's transferring it to us. On the contrary, it is our primary responsibility, and we must decide how, and already with reports like this and with their analysis and with the plays that we draw from these reports, we must look for solutions for optimal spending of these funds. In keeping with the really professional tone and the good taste of comments, I do not want to go back to analyzing the purchased weapons and equipment in the past 10 years, because then it will be seen how irrational money can be used even when it was there and now it is gone. With regard to what has been said by my colleagues before me, I would like to emphasise once again my long-standing thesis when we change legislation relating to national security, the Armed Forces and the Bulgarian Army, and yesterday we started building a new one, let us handle it carefully. Let's not act like we're rocking the system. It's actually resistant because it's inertial. And soon, apart from the laws we were looking at yesterday, we will also have to look at changes in social legislation that concern largely the servicemen. There, again, it should be carefully commented, because there is a big difference between a civilian and a uniformed staff. In uniform, it really matters what we comment on and what laws we adopt as privates, sergeants, officers and senior officers. We shouldn't put everything in one thesis, in one paragraph. I will end with a thank you which is a historical fact and a present truth about the Bulgarian army. Because since 1885 the Bulgarian soldiers, privates, sergeants, officers and generals, have shown that with a lack of finance, with a shortage of weapons and equipment, they can defeat lustrous armies with a lot of money, with good armaments. But the spirit that still exists in the Bulgarian Army, we must not allow it to be broken. Because it's huge, it's powerful, but it's not inexhaustible. Dear colleagues, let us begin to think that in order to have a good education in order to have good health care in order to have a very dense social network, we must have a state. This country is based mainly on the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and its Bulgarian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u81	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. - What's the line? I won't. Here's your speech, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the Parliament, honourable Mr. Deputy Minister! We, the members of the Commission, who are involved with this issue, especially those who have been in the Ministry of Defence or who are senior servicemen, are very tempted to talk to you long about defence, not only about the 2014 Report. I am sure that colleagues will agree. When I see the presence in the hall, yes, it is very important, but not for everyone. We think it's very important. It is no coincidence that we are putting an emphasis and I notice that we are all getting carried away with expanding the subject, not just about the 2014 Report, but at all about defence and national security. As if there was nowhere else to talk about it, we have talked about it a long time in the Commission. We remember here with colleagues that for 2011 and 2012 a report in plenary was not actually entered for 2013. This may be one of the explanations that we are now embarking on and we want to concern you with this topic, which we think is particularly important. I'll say two sentences. Of course, I'll try to talk about the report and get out of it a little bit. The report is really objective. We have to thank the professional leadership for doing its job. There's a lot of data in there. For those who are tempted by the theme.. can find numbers, comparisons, and draw their respective conclusions. However, I would also like to emphasise something that has not been said so far, and the report is also controversial. Even some members of the Defence Committee have noticed and have almost been so worried that they have started speaking in the same tone. The report has said many times "crisis", "especially a severe condition" and so on. I don't want to read them, because I'm gonna go down for explaining how much this isn't really true. And what is the state of defense? It's what's in the country. We can't run away from this. We're talking about 2014. If, on the one hand, I agree, of course, with the pain of the colleagues who spoke earlier, and former Deputy Ministers of Defence, and the President of the Commission, but I cannot agree with the pathos with which they mentioned the state of defence. Let's not forget that by now, I'm going to say some numbers, the state has been spending a lot of money on defense. I've made a schedule. This is on the report, and what we talked about to the Commission yet, I've drawn my schedule. [[shows it]] It is very clear here what money the state has been paying since 2000. I have many times had the opportunity to say this in front of my colleagues, I will say it from the stage for 2000 is 2.89 percent of gross domestic product, we assume it is 3%, I will round it up to make it easier, now - for 2014. - is 1.35%, or an average of 2.1%. If, as Mr. Naydenov said, Bulgaria in 2009 reduced the defense money by 40% and pursued some level, comparing it to someone, referring to our management, yes, but before that we have paid and we are one of the five countries that has paid so much money 15 years. That in NATO knows it, we've said it where it should be, including a few months and weeks ago. So Bulgaria has given money. And something very important. That is why I want to talk to you right now, and I quote things that, of course, have not been said by colleagues, let us not repeat ourselves. Is the economy and the money we put into defense crucial? Is what we are talking about the small budget and the increase in the budget crucial? It's not like that! Here's a typical example. It is not a billion, that is, a billion is perhaps from 2004, as has already been mentioned, but more than 2 billion have been invested in defence and has not led to such an increase in the ability of the army as we want. That's the big problem. So we're going to have to ask ourselves the question if we keep pouring money into the system, will it improve the ability of the army? Turns out not if we've been looking back for 15 years. I don't want to blame anyone, I don't want to comment on why. The same case is in 2014. Mr. Angelov must have forgotten, but in 2014 we criticised him as Minister of Defense for reducing the framework. The bad man Djankov had raised it slightly, that is, three years ahead, looking at the next two, the budget was slightly higher. Then it's a little down. We, of course, continued this trend, unfortunately forced by economic circumstances with the 2015 budget, but for that reason there were reasons. And then there were no such reasons, and there was no need to create new garrisons and not to implement Plan 2014 but to raise the framework. This was a remark to the Report for 2014, to what was done by colleagues and they spoke so, with pathos, which I do not accept. I said the report is controversial and I will give you an example. Many times in it are mentioned words that I will not repeat now. Along with that, if you pay attention to those who are interested, I will read you the numbers. It's written in many places by professional leadership, they're correct and give exact numbers. Here we go. 19 writes: "Shoot troops increase military training with the Air Force, which we talk so much about, including new platforms " p. 22 have increased by 42% combat readiness. How is it that when there's no money, when it's supposed to be a crisis, there are other terms that are critical? On page 1, page 1, 26 For the Navy, they have fulfilled everything, that is, there are no flaws. The pressure compared to the 2013 period is 24% more, I'm talking about the weed for airplanes. In this sense, it's contradictory. On the one hand, give more money to the military, they always want, maybe that's what's left of the past, not taking into account other systems from the state. But here's why I'm telling you it's controversial. The conclusion finally, which Mr. Naydenov read, I will not read to you, but the short thing was that the Bulgarian Armed Forces were able to carry out their assigned missions. Since that is the conclusion, why are more than 50 pages explained to us in the report how critical the condition is, how difficult the situation is and so on? Finally, I want to end up with something I think is the key. I said it, now I'm just gonna stress it. I remember that in 1992 and 1996 Bill Clinton won the election twice with an incredible sentence: "The economy, you fool, the economy! " The armed forces are no exception, they are not a system that is independent of others. I'm sure if they had a right to it here, according to art. 23 Was it from the Defence and Armed Forces Act, not to look for it, the minister was obliged by the end of March to submit such a Report on the state of defence and the armed forces, if, for example, the Minister of Education had been obliged by their law to submit a Report on the state of education, or the Minister of Health, the Health Report, well, they would have written a similar report. So what do we do?! We come to a very important category where we should probably look for the truth, the measure. What we want in defence, compared to the other systems in the country, is it more or less? And those 40% that are said to have cut the budget in 2000, 2004. At the time of the administration of Finance Minister Djankov, perhaps we should be there somewhere. Who says there's not enough money for the army, and the money for education or health care is enough?! I'm the last person to tell you that money for defense shouldn't be given. I'll even say another number. Compared to Europe, investments are five times, Austria is seven times less per head of service. Yeah, that's where the money should be given. In 2015, the budget is given money in this particular direction. And the Ministry of Finance saw this, not the Department of Defense. And he says, here's four million. lv. upstairs for investments. For the first time, we reach 6% for investment, although the limit we are chasing is 15%, or for NATO, 20%. I'm talking about the toast or the piece from the dashboard that we have to pursue for investment. Here's the direction. The economy, however, is the key. When the economy works well in the country, then there will be more money for the army. We shouldn't be maximists and want more than what's due, we should be chasing this measure. In my opinion, I am finishing with this professional leadership has done its job well despite the scary words that have been written. I guess those words were written by politicians, and they didn't find the opportunity or the way to explain it and write it well inside. Let them say: "Yes, that is the condition, and we can do that now and give such money. " - Not to have such a startling report at the beginning, but to say at the end: "Yes, we can carry out. Sovereignty and national security are not at issue. We can carry out our tasks. In this sense, I said, the report is objective, but it is controversial. Perhaps the conclusion is correct and we should all do what is necessary for the economy, you fool! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u83	Thank you, Mr. Radev. Are there any lines? Mr. Naydenov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Radev, I understand your desire to find the balance between criticality and, accordingly, the desire for less disturbing findings regarding defence and defence ability. However, I would not agree that only because of the suggestion of politicians the conclusions regarding the state of technology or erosion of defence capabilities are at the level presented in this report. See, in 2013, I presented data that rested on the basis of a report by the then Chief of Defence. He had done an analysis of the state of the art. I see nothing more disturbing than what has been expressed and has not changed substantially since 2013, June, when this report was presented. It is about findings that only 22% of the aircraft is correct. That's what I'm talking about. Aside from some of the MiG-29 planes, the transport helicopters, of course, excluded the cougars and Spartans, everything else was on the ground: the Pilates, El, the MiG-24 helicopters, everything! About 40% of the state of combat equipment was in technical condition and fitness. So is the percentage of ships that are right. Therefore, this is not about the desire to conceal the truth, but is the result of the lack of funds. This is not because of the unwillingness of the military command or of the servicemen in the clans and types of troops to have proper equipment, but simply because they do not have enough money to maintain the technique. How would you comment on the fact, which was also noted in the statements, that when certification of battalion battle groups to be certified a part is borrowed. Do you know what you're borrowing? Battery and tires! I'm sorry, but it's a truth that shouldn't be hidden! It is not the result of the guilty conduct of the soldiers or commanders or the management of the Ministry, but the result of the lack of funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u85	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. Second line? I won't. For the back, Mr. Radev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u86	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Naydenov, I didn't use the word "erosion," I avoided it all the time, you used it again. It was first used in your report. I'm embarrassed to use such terminology. I told you that in my opinion and then, and now the politicians have put it in the report, as well as the word "critical" and so on. You're wrong, of course, I can't agree with you. Then we expected you to increase the defense money, but you didn't. I agree with what you talked about tires, about batteries, about every single soldier knows that. I was wondering what analogy to give you and I thought of it, I don't know if it's the right one. Speaking of defense and defense money, you in a family have to decide whether to put a S.O.T. or feed and educate your children. You have to choose between that. The question is what kind of security system we need right now. Maybe that's the kind of S.E.L.D. we need, for that kind of money, because we have to educate our children, feed them, and for the S.E.L.D., we spend so much money on the S.E.L.D. Speaking of defense money, I say again: this is the state of the economy of the state. And you say, "Well, why didn't you do this? " - What should we do? What did you do?! I told you the most important thing and you have to agree with it: the most important thing is the framework, the three-year framework to be up and not down! And if the money was that much, we talked space, and I talked enough, too. Money is as much as money in the country. We have to find the measure. It's a long conversation. I don't want to argue right now. But you answer this question as I answer you. The frame is important and I suffer that the frame is currently down. I hope, however, that we can find a way to lift it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u87	Let's hear a representative of another parliamentary group. To speak, Mr. Slavov has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u88	Thank you, Madam President. I also find that the report is objective. It really is not pleasant in places, but it is better to say things the way they are and to think about how to solve problems. I will start with something that was partly affected by colleagues from GERB. For me and my colleagues in the Reformation bloc, it is just as important how money is spent, not just how much it increases or how much the state spends on the armed forces and the Bulgarian army. For us, one of the important questions is what happened to the amounts that were set aside in the period 2003 - 2009, including from budget surpluses, and were given to the Bulgarian armed forces - these 2, 3 and more percent and what was done with them. It's about billions of leva a year in some cases. Our finding, unfortunately, is that not enough has been done and the funds have not been spent effectively. Apart from that, there were, if you remember, cases of frank abuse.. there were pink BMWs and similar things. Indeed, in many cases money has been spent opaque and ineffective. In our view, this must undoubtedly change. Another problem we see as a major problem in front of the Bulgarian Army and must be solved is the old-fashioned weaponry. Here and on the left I heard, I think, and all my colleagues said that in most part it was acquired in the 1980s, colleagues. 30 years have passed since this weaponry was used and much of it is so depreciated that it is better to consider acquiring a new one than pouring money into something that is literally before marriage. This problem we saw particularly vividly in the Air Force. There were several questions to the Minister of Defence and he detailed how much money is spent per year to rehabilitate and repair several LAG engines, which in fact turned out to be spending, consumed in their vast majority of capital spending funds by the Ministry of Defence. It's just not serious, and I don't know what to call it. For some, however, if it is not serious, for others it may be a good deal, a good monopoly, which is used because in the armed forces, especially in the Air Force, dependence on Soviet weapons is 100%. We all know where it is being repaired and that we are not allowed to repair it elsewhere. The most interesting thing is that the prices for repair and maintenance do not increase by inflation rate or by some economically justified size, and in some cases we see that they grow at times, which is also not normal, agree, even I think it is quite suspicious! I think here we can think about a long-term program to finance an acquisition. It was mentioned about the multi-purpose plane to replace these outdated MiGs and this money that is being paid for repairs, to practically go about the same amount of money to acquire a new fighter that will serve for another decade, I hope well and successfully, the Bulgarian Armed Forces. One more thing I'm going to focus on is the funding issue. I cannot agree with some of the findings that I have heard from the left, I think the DPS has also said that this funding cannot in practice be at least improved by alternative methods. It was mentioned the so-called "Speed Defense Fund." For me, at least, and many colleagues from the Reformation bloc share this belief, this is one of the modern ways to enable including the army and help itself. All these funds, which are received annually from the sale of unarmed weapons, from the sale of property and so on, let them really go to this fund and be used only for development of defence capabilities, for development of the Armed Forces. Not a part of them to go nowhere, sinking into the state budget and being spent on all other things, but to really be clear what amounts are collected in these ways and practically to be used to finance them, to acquire new weapons and so on for the Bulgarian army. It's something that can be done. Another thing that can be done for the financing, in connection with and with a question which I had put to Deputy Prime Minister Donchev is to consider European programmes for activities that are not directly targeted at defence, which are accompanying activities and which the Ministry of Defence has committed to, starting with activities related to the Military Medical Academy, with other similar activities, to really seek project funding under the European funds. This too, as far as I understand it, is possible and would be an alternative method of providing funds, which would allow funds from the Ministry of Defence's budget to go back to our defense needs. What I will finish with is that one of the important things about the Reformation bloc is the Development Program of the Armed Forces, which we are about to look at soon. We really believe that such a complex approach to the Armed Forces is very necessary and very correct. You have to think complex, you have to not think piece by piece about acquiring one or another weapon isolated. It should be thought in a common system and in the context of the overall needs of the Bulgarian Army, the Armed Forces and in general in the context of its obligations, which it has under the Constitution. I hope this Programme, I suppose, will also become a serious debate, to receive the necessary support and really start working this way in the future. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u89	Are there any lines to Mr. Slavov? I won't. Now we'll hear from Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We talked a lot about this report. You know that the defence and state of the Armed Forces we speak about several times a year by adopting the budget if we change the Defence and Armed Forces Act and when we receive and discuss the State of the Armed Forces Report. I share the pain of many of those who spoke of the state of the Armed Forces. Indeed, the debate and what most of them said was about the overall state of defence for the entire transition period, especially for the last 15 years. These 15 years, my colleagues have said how much money has been spent. There was then a political leadership that thought this should be purchased for this money. That's what they thought. I kind of understand at the time that they thought there was a niche in NATO, that there wasn't enough means of transport, for example, and planes, and we would be able to participate in the missions with these funds. There may have been another thought that it was better to buy such transports, i.e. auxiliary than combat, to engage in direct combat, because we are very sensitive to sending our fighters into a real fighting environment. That is true, but today we are discussing the Defence and Armed Forces Report for 2014. What we talked about was that the technique in 2013 was welded in a very bad state, is true and an explanation of that there was still not enough money and that again the military leadership and also the political in the Ministry of Defence was working on priorities and the money was separated for what should be in the building that should sail. I, as commander of the Navy, can say that almost all the money went for the declared forces, for the frigates and for the mine-cleaners, as they were declared for participation in NATO missions and for the majority of it for both sailing and maintenance, went for them. The preparation of the frigate "Drizzki" to go to the coast of Libya took more than two million. The ship has sailed for 45 days and has completed its tasks. Therefore, the bells were not repaired, for example, or some others. I took the floor to say a few good words about those who perform their tasks in the Bulgarian Army, so as not to give the impression that in the Bulgarian army officers, Petty Officers, Sailors, Privates lie all day and do nothing because they have no fighting means, nothing to deal with. That's definitely not true. And if you read the report carefully, you will see, first of all, how many exercises have been carried out in our territory and international and national exercises, how many missions have the Bulgarian Armed Forces participated in, I can list them all. There we are completely equal and correct partners. Our allies in NATO and Operation ISAF in Afghanistan are evaluating Gen. John Allen was then: Mr. President, I know that you are reducing the Bulgarian forces according to your programme, but please give more Bulgarian soldiers because they are amazing and perform their tasks. I cannot fail to mention the participation of the Bulgarian Army in the mission to protect the population from disasters, accidents and disasters. At the most difficult moments, she intervened. With all this I mean that the Bulgarian army lives, it performs its tasks. The officers, the Petty Officers, the sailors and the soldiers serve, participate in missions. Achievement for 2014 is that we have certified the fourth battalion battle group. What is recorded is that there were no batteries and they were taking from somewhere is the smallest problem of the Bulgarian army. A large part of these public contracts for batteries and tires are conducted for years because of the appeal of public procurement. They can't buy batteries in two years. Believe me, if we have to, we'll find batteries in one day. There are on the territory of Bulgaria and if necessary all machines will have batteries and tires, no matter how. That's not the biggest problem, and we shouldn't be dragging ourselves into these little things. The important thing is that we have certified four battalion battle groups. Our combat brigades are a hundred percent equipped with armaments, equipment and personnel. Our brigades are medium-sized, fully assembled. And I am proud of these men and women officers, as I have seen them operate both in Afghanistan and in Germany how they prepare, both in teachings and during certification. So it's not so black. The Bulgarian army lives, exists, regardless of the insufficient resources it needs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u91	Any lines to Mr. Manushev? I won't. Colleagues, since there are two requests for speeches, we will now take a break. We continue at 12:00 with the debates on the report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u92	Honourable Members of Parliament, the meeting is continuing. Before the break, Mr. Ilian Todorov declared a wish to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u93	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! We must admit that, unfortunately, Bulgaria does not have adequate armed forces and, unfortunately, we do not have an army today. I don't want to go back so far and point fingers at the perpetrators, they are clear to everyone, but let's see what we can do in the future so that Bulgaria has adequate armed forces. In general, when we talk about armaments in the Bulgarian Army, we have to say that money is needed for everything. Currently more than 90% of the budget of the Ministry of Defence goes to the Fund. In other words, in order to have the means needed for modernization, we need to take from the budget. But here comes the question: to modernise the Bulgarian Army, at whose expense will this happen? Today we found out that over 1 million. 200,000. Bulgarians work for 340 BGN. a month. Over 700,000. Bulgarians receive a pension of around 200 BGN, which is an absolute genocide over them. We see the lack of funds in every single system, in every pillar of the state. Now we have to do the math. Yes, we hear from the Reformation Bloc, from the Defense Minister, that we have to buy new fighters, third-hand, American production. Okay, but these billions at the expense of who are we gonna take them out of who's pocket to give them to as fighters? After all, the Bulgarian Army and the security system as a whole are a reflection of the overall state in the country, and the state in the state today is the following. Bulgaria is a colonized country, which has given up all its natural resources, all its assets and has given them to cheaply in foreign hands, to foreign companies under the false thesis that the state was a bad owner. This is an absolute scam you can do your research to see the state is not a bad owner throughout Europe, even on the contrary. We see Hungary, a member of the European Union, a member of NATO, there are states. Even Albania, which was very behind us, and there they nationalized the epics. Not to mention gold, to lead all that we have distributed to foreign colonists. We hear from the Reformation Bloc that the old Soviet weaponry had to be overthrown by the Bulgarian army. Okay, I'm asking a question: why is Soviet weapons not being removed from the Polish army, which is a NATO member, from the army, like Hungary, Slovenia, Slovakia? Why don't they? Of course, because they've spent hundreds of millions and they don't have to give up now. Regarding the condition of our armed forces, here I will show you a report from 2015 on the number of fighter aircraft in the world. While Bulgaria currently has two fighters, the Third World countries have pò numerous fighter aircraft from us. What are we talking about NATO? I give you an example: Bangladesh has 45 fighters. Bangladesh! Equatorial Guinea disposes of 4'Bulgaria with 2! Eritrea has seven fighters. It's going to be 24. The Democratic Republic of Congo with 6 fighters. Bulgaria is a NATO member with 2! Everyone can come to the conclusion of what we benefit from NATO. And when we talk about the need for modernization, about a new technique to be introduced into armed forces in the Bulgarian Army, we from "Attack" ask a simple question: why spend 4 "5 billion on old American armaments," and these 4 "5" billion are not used to revive the military industrial complex in Bulgaria? So the state, on the one hand, to profit from the sale of weapons; on the other hand, to open thousands of jobs for the unemployed Bulgarian citizens; on the third hand, this military industrial complex to supply the necessary weapons Bulgarian army! You will say: "The state was not a bad owner. " - No, it is not. A neighbouring Romania can give you an example. Currently neighbouring Romania produces frigates, produces warships, planes, helicopters IAR-330. A Romania where up until 20 years ago people had nothing to eat, they ate leaves [[Laughter at GERB]] Today they're light years away from us, I'm sorry. One Romania today produces a major fighter tank! Romania! Take one Serbia, which is next to us "Serbia" also has a military industrial complex. Take one Italy, France, Finland, Sweden! Are we so stupid that we can't make a state-owned military industrial complex that we can profit from, from which our armed forces can also profit because there will be armaments for them?! We can do this. Someone can now say: "There are no specialists. " - If there are no specialists and are already expelled abroad, we will hire foreign specialists. It's very simple. It's very simple, but I can't understand what this wrong thesis is that the state should in no way interfere with the country's economy. You can see the demographic situation of Bulgaria's prospects are devastating, we are decreasing at a terrible rate. First of all, we're in the number one or second place in the world. We have made a video on TV "Alfa" showed that the mortality rate in Bulgaria is higher than countries even North Korea, than a number of third world countries. Those billions you've prepared for American weapons better go for the people, because after all, if there's no people, why do we need an army, right? In general, we have to say that the thesis "reforms, reforms, reforms" is empty, hollow word content. What does the reform mean? "Reforma" means what our neighbouring countries have done, like Romania, like Serbia. We have no other way out. The exit is to put back into state hands the assets our country can profit from. If you want to leave everything to private entrepreneurship, no state ownership, I ask: why Bulgaria remains the only country in the entire European Union with flat tax and millionaires in the country pay 10% tax, provided that in one France, in one Germany taxes go up to 40! We from Ataka have proposed it in the past National Assembly, and in this National Assembly we propose it to change taxes, to become progressive so that the rich can pay more taxes and the treasury can be filled. Then there will be both pensions and arms, there will be for everything the state needs. You don't want to. Why don't you want to? Maybe if you're being sponsored, I don't know. So when we are now looking at this Defence Skills Report, about Bulgaria's national security, excuse me, we do not have national security first, we do not have defence capabilities. Many times here we have talked about today's condition of the Bulgarian Army: tanks that have no shells to shoot; navy that has no shells to shoot; soldiers with torn boots, unfortunately; 2 planes; lack of anti-aircraft defence, anti-aircraft missile complexes. At the time, we had a serious weapon that was given to us by the bad Soviet Union, which, of course, under the pressure of NATO and Turkey, you destroyed. You destroyed him. This is nothing more than a national betrayal for us than to us by attacking us because you have deprived the country of its real defense capabilities. Today I find it very strange that people who have spent 25 years in the government of the country, in the administration of our armed forces, today you give brains how to revive them! You've ruined them, now you're going to give us some sense of how to fix them! It's not working. It's kind of two-faced, ugly. We need a total change, but with this economic model in which you have placed our country, this colonial slavery in which our country is, in this way Bulgaria cannot have armed forces. And not only armed forces, Bulgaria, unfortunately, can disappear as a country after years, thanks to your short-sighted policy, because you are just doing stupidity after stupidity.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u94	Please, the tone.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u95	I'm sorry to tell you this, but it's a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u96	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. First line? The way you're leading it? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, I believe that in order for a fellow Member to fully participate in the debate, it is good to have come on time and heard the whole debate, not come in the last 20 minutes, jump in the stands and start telling us his vision of life and the things of life. Right? The subject is very clear. We are talking here about things regarding the Armed Forces, we are talking about the report that has been heard. I've heard everything else here, not this thing. Neither was it a third hand, a fifth hand, or I don't know what a hand to buy arms, nor... I feel like I've heard things that aren't at all on the subject. This is my remark, Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct: just make a remark really not to make such a thing happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u98	Thank you, I accept the note. Thank you, Mr. Slavov. First line? Mr. Radev, come in. [[(National Representative Ilian Todorov wants the floor for a personal explanation. Replies from GERB: You have no right! Your name wasn't given!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u99	How could I not have the right? What do you mean? ...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u100	Please! Mr. Todorov, please! [[Lowered noise and lines in the hall.]] Please, the Quaestors! Mr. Todorov, please! Mr. Radev, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u101	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I only got up because once again my colleague Todorov allowed himself to speak obvious untruths and wrote down some numbers. I'll tell you the truth. I mentioned it earlier in my speech. Speaking at the stand, we tried with our colleagues and took the floor after speaking from other political forces, only to bring a little more clarity to the report for 2014, for no other purpose. It is very easy to slide along the line of populism, it is very easy to defend the servicemen, to explain how much money should be given to the army, and in this case, this extreme, which I hear again from my colleague, made me go out on the stand. You can't say we don't have any; we have two planes. What two planes?! If you don't know the numbers, I'll tell you the numbers: Fifteen pieces! I'm sorry about the slang. Fifteen! We bought 12 plus 3, and we bought three Spartans, plus there are MiG-21, with which, for example, Romania makes Air Polysing. And we can do it, not just with MiG-29. You're saying that other countries, Romania, you're setting an example, producing helicopters, producing frigates, what did you say? Romania can produce a lot of work. We're not as stupid as you say we are. On the contrary, in Bulgaria I do not know, I have always sought him out, who signed this contract with Russia, Bulgaria to specialize in the production of ammunition. There's nothing like it. That's the fuel for cannons, for everything. That's where the money is. They're not in the platforms. If you don't know that, I'll tell you that. You're talking about VPC. We didn't have a VPC. I had to... How do we not have a VPC? In the VPC, many times I say this to you, if you do not know this information as a Commissioner, I know this information from there................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ EUR is the turnover in 2010, 2011 and 2012. We're at the top of the world of arms exporters. You don't know that either? You're on the Defense Committee. Well, educate yourselves! [[Noise and lines. Applause by GERB.]] And the last.. 36 troops of 10,000 are on average in Europe. We're 45, 12 in Austria. If you want me to tell you she's not a NATO member. A better example is Hungary - 21 people. Come on, I'll say that as much as I hate to say it. Even our soldiers are more than many armies in NATO, and you say things, numbers... Where do you get this stuff? Be present more often in the Defence Committee. Last time you were gone, you seemed to be in the way. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u102	Mr. Radev, thank you. Second line? - What's the line? I won't. Right on the back, but before I give you the floor, Mr. Todorov, I would like to warn you that the tone was very constructive until you broke into the room and started not being in class. I'm telling you definitely! [[Applause and calls from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u103	Mr. Chairman, you're the last person you can give me a slope on how to talk.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u104	Please! I'll take your word for it! First warning, I'll take your word away.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u105	Then... So you can talk to each other somewhere else, not me!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u106	Without threatening me! [[Noise and lines.]] Without threatening me!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u107	Mr. Radev, you say, "Bulgaria has 15 aircraft." How many of them are flying? Two. Where are the others? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u108	Mr. Radev, please! No dialogue!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u109	Your Defence Minister Mr. Nenchev, the farmer, said that the Russian side wanted 80 million of us. lv. For the repair of MiG-29 planes. Then that 80 million suddenly became 24 million. From 24 million then something happened that $3 million on an engine plane was needed. I urged him to show the Russian side's offer to repair these moments. He refused to do so. Why don't I know? Ask him. When you say helicopters, Cougar. Okay, but they don't have any weapons. It's not a fighting technique. This is transportation equipment, as in fact in the last 20 years, you've all been buying transportation equipment for billions of levs. For billions of levs! You didn't buy a fighting technique that was attacking. You bought Spartans and whatnot because NATO needed it. That is, for 25 years you have been thinking about what NATO needs and did not think about what the Bulgarian army needs. Then you say, Mr. Radev, that the Military Industrial Complex in Bulgaria, he worked. Who does he work for, Mr. Radev? Does he work for the state or for the private? And let's ask the question: how did this private get this Military Industrial Complex? We remember here, reformers, deformators, boneheads who sold out the country for a dollar each. You gave them the Military Industrial Complex, which was built by the entire people. They now earn billions of dollars from this Military Industrial Complex or hundreds of millions and pay the state 10%. Well, if you gave it to them, why not pay as in one France 40%? Or as in Germany or as in all other countries of the European Union? Why won't you do it? You're telling me our army was at a very good level as numbers, numbers. Do you hear what you're saying, Mr. Radev? When in 1919 Bulgaria was forced to sign the humiliating Neui treaty the number of our armed forces, our bayonets had 33 thousand people. It's 25 grand today. That's all I'm saying. [[Single applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u110	Are there any other speeches? I won't. I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs to the vote. ? RESPONSIBILITY? adopting the Defence and Armed Forces Report of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2014 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopts the report on the state of defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2014 Please, voting mode. [[Noise and lines.]] They voted 106 MPs: 98 against 8, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. The report has been adopted. Congratulations! [[Applause from GERB.]] We move on to the next item on the agenda, namely: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE CONSUMER PROTECTION LAW. The bill is addressed to the leading Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. If you please, Mr. Kanev, present your report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u111	Colleagues, first on the grounds of art. 46 of the Rules of our Parliament for admission to the Chamber, I will ask your consent for Emil Aleksiev, Head of Department at the Department of Technical Harmonization and Consumer Policy. In the Ministry of Economy, Tsveta Karailieva, Chief Expert, and Ludmila Teofska Junior Expert, for admission to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u112	We are voting for access to this House. Vote 77 MPs: 74 against 1, abstention 2. I ask the Quaestors to invite the guests. Mr. Kanev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u113	♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act, No 502-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 April 2015. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 29 April 2015, examined and discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act, No 502-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 April 2015. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Economy: Daniela Vezieva Deputy Minister, Emil Aleksiev Head of Department at the Department of Technology Harmonization and Consumer Policy.The Commission for Consumer Protection: Dimitar Margaritov Chairman, and the members Konstantin Arabadzhiev and Konstantin Raykov; representatives of the social partners, NGOs and civil associations. The bill was presented by Daniela Vezeva. The bill aims to introduce in Bulgarian legislation the requirements of Directive 2013/11/EU for alternative settlement of consumer disputes and the creation of conditions for implementing Regulation (EU) No 524/2013 on online dispute resolution of consumer disputes. An out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes concerning the sale of goods or the provision of services by an alternative dispute resolution body, the so-called It is envisaged to build a platform for online dispute resolution (ARC), which will offer a single portal for access to users and traders who want to solve their dispute on an extracurricular basis. Alternative dispute resolution bodies may be sole or collegiate. Depending on the outcome of the procedure, they may propose a solution which is not binding; they may impose a solution which is mandatory for compliance by the parties; they may only play the role of mediator in the dispute by helping to collect the parties in seeking a mutually agreed solution. Disputes are intended to be settled within a period of not more than 90 days from receipt of all documents and evidence and the parties are not obliged to use a lawyer. The alternative dispute settlement procedure is intended to be free of charge or with moderate costs, as well as to be easily accessible online and offline for both parties to the dispute. The examination of disputes is non-existent, which will facilitate the participation of traders and consumers in the work of the authorities for alternative dispute resolution and will promote cross-border online business trade to consumers. The Parties' participation in an alternative dispute settlement procedure shall be voluntary and shall not deprive them of the possibility of seeking judicial protection. They shall be given a reasonable period of thought before adopting the proposed decision or agreement by mutual agreement. The draft law defines the Minister of Economy to perform the functions of a competent authority and gives it the power to assess whether the bodies wishing to be recognised as bodies for alternative dispute resolution meet the requirements of Directive 2013/11/EU. With regard to the implementation of measures for the implementation of Regulation No 524/2013, the European Consumer Centre to the Commission for Consumer Protection is defined as a contact point on online dispute resolution. The bill further develops and improves the structure, scope of action and the way the conciliation committees work with the Commission for Consumer Protection so that they can be recognised as bodies for alternative dispute resolution. In this regard, the establishment of sectoral conciliation committees is also envisaged. The Minister of Economy will order the headquarters and the area of action of the common and sectoral conciliation committees. An obligation is envisaged for the Minister of Economy to issue Rules of Procedure of the General and Sectoral Reconciliation Committees and Rules of Procedure of Mediators. The provisions of Directive 2013/11/EU must be implemented in national law no later than 9 July 2015, and the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act introducing the requirements of the Directive should apply from that date. No later than 9 January 2016, the Minister of Economy shall notify the European Commission of the first list of bodies for alternative dispute resolution. The provisions of Regulation No 524/2013 as regards online dispute resolution will apply from 9 January 2016. The final provisions propose corresponding changes to the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems and to the Law on Consumer Credit. Deputy Minister Daniela Vezeva and Dimitar Margaritov answered the questions asked by the MPs regarding the financial provision of the implementation of the bill. After the end of the discussion and voting with results. s 15 Members of the Parliament, without.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Asks the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Consumer Protection, No 502-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 April 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u114	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Here you are, Mr. Yankov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u115	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In connection with the obvious practice of discussing important draft laws by the National Assembly to attend only experts from the executive, I am making a procedural proposal to invite you to attend for the next item - the first vote of the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Rail Transport Act, the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Moskovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u116	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Please inform the Secretariat of the relevant ministry. Who's gonna read the Legal Committee report? A representative of the Legal Commission? I'm begging someone from the Legal Committee to... Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act, No 502-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 April 2015. At its meeting held on 29 April 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act, No 502-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 April 2015. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Economy: Mr. Emil Aleksiev, Head of Department, Consumer Policy, Directorate, Technical Harmonization and Consumer Policy, Mrs. Tsveta Karailieva, Chief Expert in the Directorate, Technical Harmonization and Consumer Policy, Mrs. Ludmila Peovska, Junior Expert in the Directorate, Technical Harmonization and Consumer Policy. By the Commission for Consumer Protection: Mr. Dimitar Margaritov, President, Konstantin Raykov and Konstantin Arabadzhiev, Members of the Commission. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Emil Aleksiev. The draft is tasked to introduce in Bulgarian legislation the requirements of Directive 2013/11/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2013 on alternative dispute resolution of consumer disputes and amending Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 and Directive 2009/22/EC and to establish conditions for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 524/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2013 on online dispute resolution of consumer disputes and amending Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 and Directive 2009/22/EC (the Consumer ODR Regulation). The bill governs the possibility of referring all disputes between consumers and traders to an alternative dispute resolution body by setting specific requirements, regulating procedural rules for the work of the body and introducing the principles of independence, impartiality, expertise, transparency, efficiency, justice, freedom and legality. The Minister of Economy is intended to perform the functions of an authority competent to assess whether the bodies wishing to be recognised as bodies for alternative dispute resolution meet the requirements set out in Directive 2013/11/EU and to ensure that those bodies comply with the obligations laid down in Regulation No 524/2013 for online dispute resolution. The proposed Draft shall further develop and improve the structure, scope of action and manner of work of the conciliation committees to the Commission for Consumer Protection so that they can be recognised as alternative dispute resolution bodies by replacing the obligation of the Minister of Economy, the Alternative Dispute Resolution Authorities and the European Consumer Centre to the Commission for Consumer Protection to publish on their websites the list of recognised bodies for alternative dispute resolution. The establishment of five sectoral conciliation committees is envisaged to deal with disputes between consumers and traders in the field of energy, water supply and sewerage services, electronic communications and postal services, transport and the financial sector. The bill provides for the Minister of Economy to designate by order the seat and area of operation of the common and sectoral conciliation committees and for the President of the Commission for Consumer Protection to approve by order a list of Presidents, Vice-Presidents and other members of the General and Sectoral conciliation committees. Mr. Aleksiev noted that the provisions of Directive 2013/11/EU on alternative dispute resolution must be introduced into national legislation no later than 9 July 2015 and the conciliation committees themselves should work 6 months later, i.e. from 9 January 2016. People's representatives Hamid Hamid, Danail Kirilov, Dimitar Lazarov and Emil Dimitrov took part in the discussion of the Bill. To the question raised by the National Representative Hamid Hamid concerning the possibility that the text referred to in § 1 "too far from the date" should be replaced by a specific period or a legal definition of that term should be introduced, Mr. Alexiev replied that the term "too far from the date" is a correct translation of the directive, and in this case its interpretation and assessment should be given to the court because it is difficult to give a legal definition which is generally universally applicable to each individual case. People's representative Danail Kirilov raised questions about the approach taken in settling the access to the possibility of being an alternative dispute resolution body and about the existence of sufficient guarantees for competition. Mr. Alexiev and Mr. Raykov answered that the Bill is open to every method and method for out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes, enough is enough for the organization to meet the requirements of the Directive. They also pointed out that in § 6 concerning art. 181a, para. 3 of the Bill explicitly provides for the possibility for an alternative dispute resolution body to be: a natural person, a legal person, a government body or another public institution. During the discussion the People's Representative Dimitar Delchev expressed his support to the Bill and the hope to really be implemented as soon as possible. Mr. Margaritov expressed his support to the proposed Draft and readiness the Commission for Consumer Protection to assist these proceedings to become truly recognized and effective ways of settling disputes between consumers and traders. Following a vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes for the Council of Ministers proposed that the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Consumer Protection Act No 502-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 April 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u118	Thank you, Mr. Adamov. The bill is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. There's no report. I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act No 502-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 April 2015. Vote 79 MPs: 68, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u119	Colleagues, the law is quite complex from a legal point of view. In agreement with the Legal Directorate of the Parliament, I have a request: on the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure to extend the deadline by three weeks between first and second readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u120	Proposal for a three-week extension between first and second readings. Please vote. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR RAIL TRANSPORT. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 29 April 2015. The bill is allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications (COMMERCIAL) and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, from which there is no report again. Mr. Karadjov, please present your report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u121	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the first reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Rail Transport Act, No 502-01-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2015. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 11 May 2015, a draft amending and supplementing the Rail Transport Act was discussed, No 502-01-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 April 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Ivaylo Moskovski, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Anton Ginev, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova, Director of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The bill was presented by Mr. Anton Ginev. Mr. Ginev noted that, in its first part, the proposed amendments and additions to the Railway Transport Act are related to the reflection of the reasoned opinion under infringement procedure No 2013/2076, as regards the European Commission's description of the incorrect transposition and application of Directive 2004/49/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on rail safety in the Community and amending Council Directive 95/18/EC on the licensing of railway undertakings and Directive 2001/14/EC on the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and safety certification (Directive 2004/49/EC). According to the reasoned opinion of the services of the European Commission, the Bulgarian understanding of a railway undertaking is too restrictive compared to that provided for in Directive 2004/49/EC and allows only companies holding a licence to be designated as a railway undertaking for the development and improvement of railway safety. In this regard, the bill provides for a definition of a railway undertaking to be established which is in line with the definition laid down in Directive 2004/49/EC. It is envisaged that transport may be carried out both by undertakings holding a licence to carry out such an activity and by undertakings without a licence but which are necessarily holding a safety certificate. The second group of enterprises will only have access to the first train station. Secondly, the amendments and additions to the part of the reflection of the reasoned opinion aim to improve the texts relating to the independence of the railway accident and accident investigation unit. Third, the creation of a new provision in the administrative criminal provisions aims to commit the responsibility of the railway carrier and of the railway infrastructure manager as legal persons responsible for the safe operation of the rail system. The statement of the European Commission services is that the provisions for imposing administrative penalties are currently aimed at imposing fines on persons such as train drivers, employees or staff members of the railway undertaking or railway infrastructure manager, but not on legal persons. Mr. Ginev pointed out that the second group of amendments are related to the clarification of provisions on the application of Regulation (EC) No 1371/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2007 on the rights and obligations of passengers using rail transport. Penalties are envisaged for breach of provisions of Regulation 1371/2007 which have not been included so far. The third group of amendments to the Rail Transport Act, as well as the amendment to the Law on limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business, are related to reducing the regulatory burden for business. On the basis of the debates held and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 11 votes...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u122	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. The debate is open. I ask Members of Parliament who wish to participate in it to state their wish. Are there any MPs who would like to comment on the bill? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u123	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! First I took, using the possibility of procedure, before the front point with the possibility...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u124	The Minister has been notified, we're expecting him any minute now. I'm familiar with the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u125	Because when discussing the first reading of these proposed amendments and additions to the Railway Transport Act, we do not see which of the importers is ready to defend themselves in possible matters. My questions are to the executive authority in the face of the Minister of Transport. Yes, the motives show that a European directive is transposed, that there are shortcomings in Bulgarian legislation that are not synchronized with European legislation. My question to the executive, to Minister Moskovski, is why is the National Assembly currently being forced to make discussions and to examine and to adopt amendments to the Law, which are a patch in the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria? Patch without a strategy for the development of railway transport. The Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications by Decision of the Transport Commission of the National Assembly has started the development of a strategy for the development of railway transport in the Republic of Bulgaria and a plan for the rescue and development of BDZ Holding for the period 2015 - 2023. Where is the strategy? Is there one that can be examined by the Members of the National Assembly? A strategy to receive support from most political parties represented in the National Assembly, a broad consensus on the development of railway transport, a strategy to analyse the country's railway sector in the context of the European policy on priority railway development? Is there an analysis of the transport market and the place of rail services in it? Because this Draft Law is amended and supplemented by the Railway Transport Act, it also regulates the work of Cargo Services in BDZ. To date, material has been considered which is the basis for a future strategy that can be identified as a strategy that is risky to implement, as the development of the document has been taken as an urgent and urgent measure in a period of financial constraints. The expectations are that there will be results only towards the end of the period, and provided that a complex of measures, whose implementation is largely linked to the state policy in the sector is possible. With this legislative change, I expect to be answered by the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications what is the analysis, provided that this Law is adopted, with regard to the cargoes of BDZ Cargo? Is it not denied the possibility of cargoes being carried, of having work for BDZ workers? Are two million cargoes removed from the commitment to be carried by BDZ provided that the total volume is slightly above 5 million on an annual basis? This is nearly 40% of the transports currently being carried out by the Cargo Services. How will it be compensated? What is the view of the Ministry of Transport and Information Technology and the communications to compensate for this shortage that will result? Are we in the hypothesis that we are forced to accept these legislative changes and at the same time how will we provide work for BDZ Cargo without imposing cuts without damage to the state enterprise? In what way will we develop BDZ as a whole? The society is extremely sensitive. I remind all colleagues, and with this speech I pay attention to the executive power in the face of Minister Moskovski that the sensitivity not only of those working in the sector, but of all Bulgarian citizens is extremely enhanced! So I am using the parliamentary tribune to make a formal proposal to postpone the debates on the so submitted Draft Law amending and supplementing the Railway Transport Act, to allow Minister Moskovski to participate in these debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u126	- What's the line? Here's a line for you, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u127	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u128	You have a procedure in the manner of conduct? And before that, are there others willing to replicate? I won't. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Excuse me, Madam President, but there is no parliamentary control at the moment, but an examination of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Rail Transport Act, which was unanimously voted on during the Commission. It had nothing to do with the talk throughout the railway sector, which we talked about. There is a strategy which has been examined and is to be presented to the National Assembly. It is currently uploaded to the Ministry of Transport website for discussion within one month. I think there is nothing in common between the draft amending and supplementing the Rail Transport Act and the common strategy in question. Here we have a reasoned opinion on infringement procedure No 2030/2076, which is from the end of 2013, frozen 9 months from the previous Parliament and did not move to resolve between first and second readings. I don't see why something we had to do a year ago wouldn't be done now? Apart from that, I consider it normal to consider the Strategy for the Development of Railway Transport. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u130	It's a personal explanation. He says it's a pep talk.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u131	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. You don't have a chance for a personal explanation. Just tell me what you suggested under procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u132	I want a personal explanation of what Mr. Valkov said.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u133	Mr. Yankov, what did you propose as a procedure? A delay in what did you propose?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u134	Once a colleague allows himself to speak that I have used a word, I am entitled to a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u135	Can you tell me what your procedure is, which I am obliged to put to the vote right now? Repeat the procedure only. I'll take your word for it if you abuse your right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u136	The procedure I have done: in relation to the importance of rail transport and the proposed amendments to amend and supplement the Law, during the debates to have the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and Debates postponed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u137	Which of the two should be present to postpone the debate?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u138	The minister is gone, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u139	One of the two, Mr. Yankov. They can't both be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u140	Madam President, I ask that the debates be postponed and held when the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications is present and taking part in the debates.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u141	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote on the basis of art. 52, para. 2, p. 4 to postpone the debate on the bill. Vote 78 MPs: 12, against 57, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. Are there any other MPs who wish to participate in the debate? I won't. We're closing the debate. I put to the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Rail Transport Act. [[Incoming Minister Ivaylo Moskovski. Revival, laughter and applause by GERB.]] Vote 82 MPs: 75, against 5, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Thank you, Minister, for respecting the National Assembly. [[Laughter, excitement and applause at GERB.]] Moving on to the next point of the weekly program: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE PRIVIZATION LAW AND THE ADVISION CONTROL. This is a joint bill drawn up on the basis of the laws adopted in the first vote on 22 April 2015 with importers: Christian Vigenin and a group of MPs The Commission report will introduce us to Mr. Peter Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u142	On 22 April 2015, a Report on the General Draft Law adopted by Christian Vigenin and a group of MPs on 17 February 2015, No 502-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 March 2015, and No 502-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 April 2015, drawn up on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control (prom., SG...) The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u143	Statements? I won't. I put the Commission's proposal to vote in favour of the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Vote 76 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u144	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. 'Concluding provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u145	Statements? I won't. We are voting on § 1, the name of the division of the final provision and § 2 anbloc. Vote 73 MPs: for 72, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The next item in our weekly program is: THE FIRST VOICE OF LAW FOR COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAW ON STATE OWNITY. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u146	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law supplementing the State Property Act, No 502-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 January 2015. At its meeting held on 8 April 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law supplementing the State Property Act, No 502-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 January 2015. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova. The bill lays down the rules for the selection of a private partner referred to in art. 57a, para. 1 and 2 of the State Property Act, do not apply where state-owned enterprises and commercial companies with more than 50 per cent of State participation in capital participate in commercial companies, conclude joint operations contracts or participate in civil companies, if this is for the purpose of participating in a procurement procedure, or for the performance of a public contract or other service, supply or construction and for participation in companies receiving funding from the European Union where the conclusion of an agreement is laid down as a condition by the financing institution. The aim is to overcome the difficulties that arise in the practice of the current legal regime, according to which state-owned enterprises and commercial companies with more than 50 percent State participation in capital do not participate as equal partners in procedures in which they are participants in the procedure resulting from the procedure. The discussion was attended by the MPs Petar Slavov, Dimitar Delchev, Svilen Ivanov, Chavdar Georgiev and Danail Kirilov. In the course of the discussion, questions were raised about the purpose of the Bill, the deadlines in which the procedure for selecting a public-private partner and the obstacles that the current regime creates. Ms. Stoyanova pointed out that the deadline for choosing a public-private partner is about two months if there is no appeal. Regarding the difficulties mentioned, she argued that the procedure is currently not in line with the time limits for participation in the procurement procedures. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 9 votes for the State Property Act, No 502-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 January 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u147	Thank you, Mr. Adamov. The debate is open. Are there any MPs willing to participate in it? Here you go, Emil Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, if I delay the time by a few seconds, I will be stopped by the microphone and it is right, because this is in the Rules. The Prime Minister comes here and answers questions, because this is in the Rules. The Rules are made in accordance with the Constitution so that the National Assembly can function. Under the Constitution and under these Rules of Procedure, the Council of Ministers, respectively the Prime Minister, and every single MP. When a minister thinks there should be a change in the law, he brings it to the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers votes it, then with the Prime Minister's signature, in this case Mr. Borisov, he comes to us. Article 31, para. 3 reads: "When discussing bills and other acts at committees' meetings, the speaker shall be heard. If it's an MP or a group of MPs, it's him. When the bill is tabled by the Council of Ministers, a member of the Council of Ministers or Deputy Minister is heard at the meeting.................................................................................................................................................... The bill thus presented, when submitted to the Commission, was not present either a minister or a deputy minister. So these people ignored their Prime Minister's signature, they disrespected him, and we are expected to expect respect. I ask from this moment on to respect the rules adopted by us on the organisation and activities of the National Assembly and when the Council of Ministers with the Prime Minister's signature has submitted something to the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly shall resolute it to a committee when he enters the committee, I mean the lead, for others there should not be such a claim, to be so good to come the minister of the National Assembly, and if he is very busy his deputy. If they can't come, to postpone another meeting, we have no hurry. But all the bills that are being tabled must respect the prime minister who signed them, from his ministers, from the deputy ministers to the ministers, and respect for Parliament, so that we can follow our rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u149	That's right. Parliament is this!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u150	In this regard, I propose that this bill be returned to the Commission, that it pass in due order under the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly and from now on the ministers and their alternates be so kind as to respect their prime minister and the National Assembly's Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u151	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. There's no such procedure. Moreover, the time limits under the same rules of ours, to which you referred for a reason, I stand behind your appeal and support it in full, have expired, as the law was introduced on 30 January 2015. So, with what report the Legal Commission is introducing us at the moment, we will debate on it. Here you are in the manner of conduct, because there is no other way I can give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u152	Madam President, the deadlines here are irrelevant. We are introducing a bill that is insignificant because it has not been adopted under the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u153	Tell me on what basis I can read in the Rules that I am returning it. Is there such a reason to return a bill to the Commission? If you could give me the grounds, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u154	I state the reason why this bill cannot be tabled in this House because it was adopted in violation of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. It's a violation of art. 31, para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u155	So what's next?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u156	I think he's small. You decide. If you want from now on, an expert from which the ministry wants him to make laws.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u157	Working with the experts we also allow in plenary in the last row, without hearing their voice, is clear to us all. More than once in this tribune, I have asked why do we allow guests when they do not participate in the plenary session? The debate continues. Are there any other MPs who would like to take a stand? I won't. We're closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill supplementing the State Property Act, No 502-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 January 2015. Please vote. I support, essentially, Mr. Dimitrov. I draw attention to the guidelines of the Standing Committees, especially those leading, that when holding the meeting of the committee responsible and discussing the bill, our rules with which we ourselves have been self-organised should be respected. Vote 80 MPs: 58, against 2, abstention 20. The proposal is not accepted as the quorum is 64. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u158	Madam President, honourable Members, I am doing a re-voting procedure. Some colleagues couldn't vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u159	Members of the National Assembly, please enter the Chamber. There's a vote coming up. We're on the verge of a quorum. I'm re-voting a bill to supplement the State Property Act, No 502-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 January 2015. Please vote. Are there any other members of the House coming in? They voted 86 MPs: 71, against 4, abstention 11. The proposal is adopted, with this and the Bill at first reading. Negative vote please, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u160	Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! I take the floor for a negative vote not because the bill is bad or we have comments on it. We are a republic with parliamentary governance. It is appropriate that this Parliament, which is the supreme authority of government of the state, be respected, be respected and the prime minister of the state himself. Therefore, I insist that Mrs. Tsacheva address the Council of Ministers and when discussing the next bills here to be present either Deputy Minister or Minister. Otherwise, our role as MPs is reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u161	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. I will fulfill your proposal, however, as long as we expect the result of their presence. We are moving on to a package of projects for solutions for the transformation of private universities. The first one is: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO TRANSMISSION A PARTICULAR HIGH SCHOOL, GENERAL BALCIC, IN A PRINCIPAL HIGH SCHOOL IN MANIJMENT. Importer of the Council of Ministers. A draft decision, two committees, the Committee on Education and Science and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. We will first hear the report from the Committee on Education and Science. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u162	Thank you, Madam President. Minister Tanev has been notified and is on his way to the hall. Dear colleagues, I will introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Education and Science on the Project for a Decision for the Conversion of a Private Higher School College with the title of "International College" "Albena," with the seat of the Resort Complex "Albena", the municipality of Balchik, in the specialized private Varna University of Management "Varna," No 502-03-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015. At its regular meetings held on 11 March 2015 and 8 April 2015, the Education and Science Commission discussed a draft decision for the conversion of a private university college called "International College" "Albena," based in the Resort Complex "Albena" in the municipality of Balchik, to a specialized private Varna University of Management, No 502-03-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015. The meetings were attended by: Minister of Education and Science Prof. Todor Tanev, Deputy Minister Kostadin Kostadinov, Chairman of the National Assessment and Accreditation Agency Prof. Kostadin Kostadinov Boyan Biolchev and Vice-President of NAOA Assoc. Stanka Velichkova, Rector of the College Assoc. Prof. Todor Radev, representative of the Union of Higher Education and Science at the CST. Lilyana Valcheva. On behalf of the importers, the project was presented by Minister Todor Tanev. The draft decision shall be proposed on the basis of art. 9, para. 2, p. 1 of the Higher Education Act and of a positive assessment by the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency project, according to Protocol No 18 of the Board of Accreditation meeting held on 17 October 2013. The discussion on the project included MPs Borislav Velikov, Krasimira Anastasova, Snezhana Dukova, Boyka Marinska, Milen Mihov, Irena Kotseva and Stanislav Stanilov. The MPs raised the question as to whether the proposed transformation of four colleges into specialised universities is in line with the key priorities and specific policies of the Higher Education Strategy, which provide for optimization of the network of higher schools. Also discussed were the reports of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency, which gave a negative assessment of all proposals for conversion according to the criterion of public demand for opening or conversion of the relevant higher school. Minister Todor Tanev stressed that the number of universities existing in the Republic of Bulgaria is not changing because colleges are still part of the higher education system. The higher education and science union expressed their principal position on the need to drop the educational-qualification degree of professional Bachelor, which is acquired in colleges. With a view to carrying out a deeper analysis of the criterion of public interest, the Commission scheduled a second meeting at which further comments could be submitted. 5 positive opinions were received under the Project for the Transformation of the International College. The project is supported by the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and other organizations of employers. In the course of the debates it was found that the proposed draft decision does not specify exactly the seat and the name of the university in which the college is converted as required by art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1, t. 1 of the Law on Higher Education. In relation to the question raised at the first meeting, the Rector of the International College (International College), Albena, submitted to the Commission additional documents stating that the material and technical base in Varna, where the headquarters of the higher school is moved, was accredited by the NAOA. The Members of the National Assembly agreed that the text of the Draft Decision is to be refined in order to comply with the requirements of art. 16 of the Law on Higher Education. The Minister of Education and Science and the representatives of the College supported the proposal. After the discussion was concluded and the vote was held with a result: 13 votes for the Council of Ministers and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision with the following wording: ? RESPONSIBILITY? for the transformation of a private university in a college called "International College" "Albena," based in the Resort complex "Albena" in the municipality of Balchik, in a specialized private university called "High School of Management" with its head office in Varna The National Assembly on the basis of art. 9, para. 2, p. Art. 1, in conjunction with Art. 1 17, para. 4 of the Law on Higher Education HAS DECIDED 1. He is a private university with the title of "International College" "Albena," based in the Resort complex "Albena", the municipality of Balchik, in a specialized private university with the name of "High School of Management", with the head office of Varna and with the subject of activity preparation of specialists with higher education in specialties from the professional fields..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. The property and financing of the university under point (b) of Article 3 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1 is provided according to its
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Marinova. For the report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, Mr. Kanev, President of the Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u164	"COMMODITY" on a project for a decision to convert a private university to a college of colleges called "International College" "Albena," based in the Resort complex "Albena" in the municipality of Balchik, in the specialized private university of management "Varna," No 502-03-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015. At its regular meeting, held on 22 April 2015, the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee examined the Project for a decision to convert a private university to a college called International College (International College), based in the resort complex of Albena (Albena) in Balchik Municipality, in the specialized private Varna University of Management (Varna). The meeting was attended by Prof. Todor Tanev, Minister of Education and Science, who presented the draft decision. The project envisions the higher school to include in its structure four main units: Faculty of Economics, Department for Modern Educational Methods, Research Institute and College of Management and Tourism. Students will acquire educational and qualification degrees under the Law of Higher Education. The Higher School Conversion Project clearly outlines the vision of its development, mission and tasks. After the presentation of the draft decision, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision for the conversion of a private university to a college with the title of "International College" and "Albena," with the seat of the Resort Complex "Albena" and the municipality of Balchik, to a specialized private Varna University of Management, No 502-03-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u165	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Debates are open. Are there any willing colleagues? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Vote mode supposed to convert a private university to a college called International... [[Reply.]] I'm taking this opportunity until the MPs get in. Thank you. Because it was read by the Commission, I wanted to read it until the MPs came in. .. Resort complex "Albena" in the municipality of Balchik, in a specialized private university called "Varna University of Management." The National Assembly on the basis of art. 9, para. 2, p. 1 in relation to art. 17, para. 4 of the Law on Higher Education HAS DECIDED He is a private university with the title of "International College" "Albena," based in the Resort complex "Albena", the municipality of Balchik, in a specialized private university with the name of "High School of Management" with the head office of Varna and with the subject of activity preparation of specialists with higher education in specialties from the professional departments...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. The property and financing of the university under point (b) of Article 3 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, Voting mode. They voted 86 MPs: 83 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. The next one is the same procedure: PROJECT FOR THE DECISION TO TRANSMISSION THE PARTICULAR HIGH SCHOOL IN THE EUROPEAN COLLEGE OF ECONOMICS AND THE ENTIRE PLOVDIV, IN THE SPECIAL PARTICIPATION OF THE EUROPEAN SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS AND MANIJMENTS. My request is the report of the leading Committee on Education and Science. Here you are, Mrs. Marinova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose to present the reports on the other colleges in summary by missing the part reflecting the general debate in the Commission. They were read in the first report and the full text of the reports will be entered in the transcript, if you don't mind. Dear colleagues! Report of the Committee on Education and Science on...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u167	I'm gonna have to ask you to follow up on college so we don't break any procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u168	I don't mind college college, but I'm not going to read the full debate. I read the text just now, and the full text of the reports will be entered in the minutes, if you don't mind. Project for ? RESPONSIBILITY? for the transformation of Private Higher School........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... At its regular meetings held on 11 March 2015 and 8 April 2015, the Education and Science Committee discussed a draft decision for the conversion of a private university - a private university - a self-employed college, called the "European College of Economics and Management" with the head office of Plovdiv in a specialized private school of economics and management- Plovdiv, No 502-03-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 05 March 2015. The meetings were attended by: Minister of Education and Science Prof. Todor Tanev, Deputy Minister - Prof. Todor Tanev Kostadin Kostadinov, the Chairman of the National Assessment and Accreditation Agency, Prof. Kostadin Kostadinov Boyan Biolchev, and Vice-President of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency - Assoc. Stanka Velichkova, Rector of the College Assoc. Tsvetan Kotsev, and Prof. Mariana Mihailova, representative of the trade union "High Education and Science" - Assoc. Lilyana Valcheva. On behalf of the importers, the project was presented by Deputy Minister Kostadin Kostadinov. The draft decision shall be proposed on the basis of art. 9, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law on Higher Education and of a positive assessment by the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency under Protocol No 11 of the meeting of the Accreditation Board, held on 5 June 2014. 10 positive opinions were received on the project for the transformation of the European College of Economics and Management. The project is supported by the Syndicate of Bulgarian teachers, by the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, by territorial bodies of the executive and non-governmental organizations. In the course of the debates it was found that the proposed draft decision does not specify exactly the seat and the name of the university in which the college is converted as required by art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1, t. 1 of the Law on Higher Education. The Members of the National Assembly agreed that the text of the Draft Decision is to be refined in order to comply with the requirements of art. 16 of the Law on Higher Education. The Minister of Education and Science and the representatives of the College supported the proposal. After the discussion was concluded and a 15-vote vote was held -....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the conversion of a private university to a private university called a private college of economics and management and based in Plovdiv to a specialized private university called a higher school of economics and management, with its head office in Plovdiv The National Assembly on the basis of art. 9, para. 2, p. Art. 1, in conjunction with Art. 1 17, para. 4 of the Law on Higher Education HAS DECIDED 1. Transformed a private university of independent college, named "European College of Economics and Management" and based in Plovdiv in a specialized private university named "the higher school of economics and management" with the head office of Plovdiv and with the subject of activity preparation of specialists with higher education in specialties from the professional fields of.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. The property and financing of the university under point (b) of Article 3 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1 is provided according
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Marinova. Mr. Kanev, you are probably the most active MP today. Here you are, Mr. Kanev, with the report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u170	♪ I can't believe under the Project for a decision for the transformation of the private university of senior college, called the "European College of Economics and Management" and based in Plovdiv, in the "primarily senior school of economy and management" of Plovdiv, No 502-03-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 05 March 2015. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at a meeting held on 22 April 2015 discussed and discussed the Project for a Decision on the Conversion of the Private Higher School. The meeting was attended by Prof. Todor Tanev, Minister of Education and Science and representatives of employers' and trade unions. The draft decision was presented by Minister Tanev. It was underlined that this was not a project to create a new higher education institution but to increase the degree of existing one. According to the participant in the practice, college higher education is faced with a certain amount of mistrust by some employers and managers as the educational and qualification degree of the professional bachelor is difficult to recognize in both our country and abroad. The existing legal framework acts discriminatoryly in relation to the acquisition of a master's degree by professional bachelors, enabling them to continue their education only in the same professional direction. These are the main reasons for the request for the transformation, with the specialized private university being the successor of the private private college. The transformation does not have a direct impact on the state budget. The college conversion project has received a positive assessment from the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency. There is strong support from national representative organizations; bodies of local self-government and territorial administration; local and foreign non-governmental organizations; businesses; students and parents. After a vote with results: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Project for a Decision for the Conversion of the Private Higher School of College of Owns, named "European College of Economics and Governance" and with its head office in Plovdiv, in a specialized private school of economics and management.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u171	I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Voting mode. I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs. The decision was read by Mrs Cornelia Marinova. We are voting for the decision to convert a private university to a private university called a private college called a "European College of Economics and Governance" and based in Plovdiv, to a specialized private university of economics and management of Plovdiv. Vote 89 MPs: 80, no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. The next item on the agenda of the Forty-third National Assembly is: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO TRANSMISSION A PRINCIPAL HIGH SCHOOL IN A SPECIAL PRINCIPLE OF SECURITY AND ECONOMIC SCHOOL OF Plovdiv. Here you are, Mrs. Marinova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Education and Science on a project for a decision to convert a private university to a private university, a private college named..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... At its regular meetings held on 11 March 2015 and 8 April 2015, the Education and Science Committee discussed a draft decision for the conversion of a private university of senior college of the name of the College of Economics and Administration and of the head office of Plovdiv in a specialized private Higher School of Security and Economy, Plovdiv, No 502-03-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015. The Minister of Education and Science attended the meetings. Todor Tanev, Deputy Minister Prof. Todor Tanev. Kostadin Kostadinov, Chairman of the National Assessment and Accreditation Agency Prof. Kostadin Kostadinov Boyan Biolchev and Vice-President of the National Agency for Evaluation and Accreditation Assoc. Stanka Velichkova, representatives of the college Georgi Manolov and Prof. Georgi Manolov Dimitar Dimitrov, and a representative from the trade union. Lilyana Valcheva. On behalf of the importers, the project was presented by the Deputy Minister. Kostadin Kostadinov. The draft decision shall be proposed on the basis of art. 9, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law on Higher Education and of a positive assessment by the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency project, pursuant to Protocol No 14 of the Board of Accreditation, held on 3 July 2014. Five positive opinions were received on the Economics and Administration College Transformation Project. The project is supported by the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and by private security organizations. In the course of the debates it was found that the proposed draft decision does not specify exactly the seat and the name of the university in which the college is converted as required by art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1, t. 1 of the Law on Higher Education. The Members of the National Assembly agreed that the text of the Draft Decision is to be refined in order to comply with the requirements of art. 16 of the Law on Higher Education. The Minister of Education and Science and the representatives of the College supported the proposal. After the discussion was concluded and a vote was held with a result of 13 votes....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... DECISION for the transformation of a private university of a private university of a kind called the College of Economics and Administration and with its registered office in Plovdiv, to a specialized private university of the name of the Higher School of Security and Economics, with its seat in Plovdiv National Assembly on the grounds of art. 9, para. 2, p. Art. 1, in conjunction with Art. 1 17, para. 4 of the Law on Higher Education HAS DECIDED 1. Transformed a private university in a private university called Plovdiv College of Economics and Administration and based in Plovdiv, in a specialized private university called the Higher School of Security and Economics, with its head office in Plovdiv and with the subject of activity training of specialists with higher education in specialties from the professional fields of Administration and Management and Economics and National Security. 2. Students from the transformed College of Business Administration can continue their studies as follows: (a) at the Higher School of Security and Economics in the specialty of the Department of Stopan for the acquisition of educational and qualification degrees of Bachelor's degree under art. 42, para. 1, t. 1 point (b) of the Higher Education Act; (b) in the College of Tourism 42, para. 1, t. 1 letter of the Higher Education Act. 3. Students from the transformed college in the specialty of Stopansko management can continue their studies as follows: (a) at the Higher School of Security and Economics in the same speciality for acquisition of educational and qualification degrees under art. 42, para. 1, t. 1 point (b) of the Higher Education Act; (b) in the College of Tourism 42, para. 1, t. 1 letter of the Higher Education Act. 4. Students from the transformed college in the specialty of anti-terrorist management can continue their studies as follows: (a) at the Higher School of Security and Economics in the specialities of Stopansko management.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 42, para. 1, t. 1 point (b) of the Higher Education Act; (b) in the College of Tourism 42, para. 1, t. 1 letter of the Higher Education Act. 5. Students from the transformed college in the specialty of the Management of Public Order Protection and Counteraction of Crime (CIC) may continue their studies as follows: (a) at the Higher School of Security and Economics in the specialities of Stopansko management.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 42, para. 1, t. 1 point (b) of the Higher Education Act; (b) in the College of Tourism 42, para. 1, t. 1 letter of the Higher Education Act. 6. Students from the transformed college in the specialty of Sports Management can continue their education at the College of Tourism.. Blagoevgrad, in the specialty of Business Administration........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 42, para. 1, t. 1 letter of the Higher Education Act. 7. Students from the transformed college in the specialty of "Business Informatics" can continue their studies at the College of Management, Trading and Marketing "Sofia," in the specialties of "Marketing" and "Entrepreneurship" for the acquisition of educational-qualification degree "Bachelor" under art. 42, para. 1, t. 1 letter of the Higher Education Act. 8. Students from the transformed college in the specialty of the Economics of Tourism and Tourism can continue their studies as follows: (a) at the Higher School of Security and Economics in the specialities of Accounting and Control and Finance for the acquisition of educational-qualification degree of Bachelor under art. 42, para. 1, t. 1 point (b) of the Higher Education Act; (b) in the College of Management, Trade and Marketing, Sofia, in the specialities "Marketing" and "Entrepreneurship" for the acquisition of educational-qualification degree "Bachelor" under art. 42, para. 1, t. 1 letter of the Higher Education Act. 9. Students from the transformed college in the specialty of Marketing can continue their studies as follows: (a) at the Higher School of Security and Economics in the specialities of Accounting and Control and Finance for the acquisition of educational-qualification degree of Bachelor under art. 42, para. 1, t. 1 point (b) of the Higher Education Act; (b) in the College of Management, Trade and Marketing, Sofia, in the specialities "Marketing" and "Entrepreneurship" for the acquisition of educational-qualification degree "Bachelor" under art. 42, para. 1, t. 1 letter of the Higher Education Act. 10. Students from the transformed college in the course of accounting and control may continue their studies as follows: (a) at the Higher School of Security and Economics in the specialities of Accounting and Control and Finance for the acquisition of educational-qualification degree of Bachelor under art. 42, para. 1, t. 1 point (b) of the Higher Education Act; (b) in the College of Management, Trade and Marketing, Sofia, in the specialities "Marketing" and "Entrepreneurship" for the acquisition of educational-qualification degree "Bachelor" under art. 42, para. 1, t. 1 letter of the Higher Education Act. 11. Students from the transformed college in the specialty of Finance can continue their studies as follows: (a) at the Higher School of Security and Economics in the specialities of Accounting and Control and Finance for the acquisition of educational-qualification degree of Bachelor under art. 42, para. 1, t. 1 point (b) of the Higher Education Act; (b) in the College of Management, Trade and Marketing, Sofia, in the specialities "Marketing" and "Entrepreneurship" for the acquisition of educational-qualification degree "Bachelor" under art. 42, para. 1, t. 1 letter of the Higher Education Act. 12. Students from the transformed college in the course of the course of the course of the course of the course of the school of tourism can continue their studies at the College of Tourism. The students from the course of the course of the course of the course of the course of the study can continue their studies in the course of the course of the school of tourism. 42, para. 1, t. 1 letter of the Higher Education Act. 13. Students awarded with the right to protection who have not graduated before the conversion of the college may acquire higher education according to the rules of the university. 14. Interrupted and suspended students may continue their training to acquire higher education according to the rules of the university. 15. The archive of the College of Economics and Administration is provided to the specialized private Higher School of Security and Economics. 16. The property and financing of the university under point (b) of Article 3 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1 is provided
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Marinova. Mr. Kanev, please submit the report to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u174	Colleagues! "COMMODITY" of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism on the Project for a Decision for the Conversion of a Private Higher School of College of College of Economics and Administration of Plovdiv, in specialized private Higher School of Security and Economics Plovdiv, No 502-03-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015. At its regular meeting held on 22 April 2015, the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee examined the Project for a decision for the transformation of a private university of senior college of the name of the College of Economics and Administration and with its headquarters in Plovdiv, in a specialized private Higher School of Security and Economics Plovdiv. The draft decision presented by the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev envisions the transformed university to include in its structure three educational centers of national security, economics and management and foreign language training. They will prepare students for the acquisition of an educational-qualification degree under art. 42, para. 1, t. 1 letter (b) of the Higher Education Act, as well as of the Master's Master's degree. Students who wish to graduate under the conditions under which they are accepted are scheduled to be transferred to another college. After the presentation of the draft decision, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision on the conversion of a private university of college of self-esteem by the name of the Economics and Administration College of Plovdiv and the head office of Plovdiv, specialized private high school of security and economy of Plovdiv, No 502-03-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u175	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. The Internal Security and Public Order Committee report will be presented by Mr. Yavor Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order on the Project for a Decision on the Conversion of a Private Higher School, a Single College of Economics and Administration and with its head office Plovdiv, to a Specialized Private Higher School of Security and Economy Plovdiv, No 502-03-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015. At its meeting held on 22 April 2015, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined the Project for a Decision on the Conversion of a Private Higher School of the College of Owns, called the College of Economics and Administration and the head office of Plovdiv, at the Specialized Private Higher Security and Economics School of Plovdiv, No 502-03-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015. From the Ministry of Education and Science at the meeting was attended by Maria Furtunova, Director of the Department of Higher Education. He also noted that the private university of high school of senior college, called the College of Economics and Administration, was opened by a decision of the National Assembly of 29 October. 2003 Its transformation is based on a proposal from the management of the higher school based on a positive assessment of the Project by the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency. At the moment 1453 students in different specialties are trained in college. The project envisions the transformed university to include in its structure three training centers of national security, economics and management and foreign language training. Mrs. Furtunova said that the project for the transformation of the College of Economics and Administration received 5 positive opinions from different organizations. As a result of the debates held, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee with 15 votes for.... supported the submitted Project for a decision for the transformation of private university...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u177	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. I'm opening the debate. Are there any MPs willing to participate in it? I won't. I put to the vote the project............................................................................................ We are voting for a project for a decision to convert a private university into a private college called "City of Economics and Administration" with its head office in Plovdiv, to a specialized private university of security and economics. Please vote. Cancel the vote. I now put to the first vote the draft decision on the College of Economics and Administration, based in the city. Plovdiv. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Colleagues, since Minister Tanov is here, I suggest that we extend the time for the last college, asking the reports in summary to be presented to us so that we do not get rid of the minister on tomorrow. I put to the vote this formal procedural proposal to extend the time until the debate and the vote on the next item are closed. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Moving on to: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO TRANSMISSION COLLEMENT BY TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND POSTS OF SOFIA, AT THE HIGH SCHOOL SCHOOL SCHOOL AND POSITION IN SOFIA. I ask the rapporteurs of the committees to present a summary of this is what the Rules say. The Education and Science Committee doesn't tell us who was there, tell us what happened... [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u178	Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Education and Science on the Project for a Decision on the Conversion of the College of Telecommunications and Posts (Sofia), at the Varna University of Telecommunications and Post Offices, based in Sofia, No 502-03-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015. At its regular meetings held on 11 March 2015 and on 08 April 2015, the Education and Science Committee discussed a draft decision for the conversion of the College of Telecommunications and Posts to the University of Telecommunications and Posts based in Sofia, No 502-03-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015. The Minister of Education and Science attended the meetings. Todor Tanev, Deputy Minister Prof. Todor Tanev. Kostadin Kostadinov, the Chairman of the National Assessment and Accreditation Agency, Prof. Kostadin Kostadinov Boyan Biolchev and Vice-President of NAOA Assoc. Stanka Velichkova, Rector of the College Prof. Dimitar Radev and Assoc. Ljiljana Valcheva from the trade union High education and science at the CST. On behalf of the importers, the project was presented by Minister Todor Tanev. The draft decision shall be proposed on the basis of art. 9, para. 2, p. 1 of the Higher Education Act and of a positive assessment by the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency project, according to Protocol No 9 of the Board of Accreditation meeting held on 10 May 2013. 22 written opinions were received on the project for the transformation of the College of Posts and Telecommunications, of which 21 positive and one negative. The project is supported by 9 foreign and three Bulgarian universities and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, by five leading Bulgarian telecommunication companies, by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, by the Bulgarian Posts. The negative opinion is of the Technical University Sofia. The Members of the National Assembly agreed that the text of the draft decision is to be refined in order to comply with the requirements of Art. 16 and Article 17 of the Law on Higher Education. The Minister of Education and Science and the representatives of the College supported the proposal. After the discussion was concluded and a vote with a score of 14 votes -.................................................................. and 1 vote -................................................................................................................................................................................... ? RESPONSIBILITY? for the transformation of the College of Telecommunications and Posts in Sofia, in a specialized university called the Higher School of Telecommunications and Post School with Sofia headquarters. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 9, para. 2, p. 1, in conjunction with Article 17 (4) of the Law on Higher Education HAS DECIDED He transformed the College of Telecommunications and Posts in a specialized higher school called the Higher School of Telecommunications and Posts and with the subject of activity: training of specialists with higher education in specialties from professional fields of communication and computer equipment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u179	Thank you. We expect Mr. Karadjov to offer us a summary of the detailed report he has presented to the committee in charge.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u180	Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on the draft decision for the transformation of the College of Telecommunications and Posts - Sofia, Varna University of Telecommunications and Posts with headquarters in Sofia, No 502-03-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015. The Commission on Transport, Information Technology and Communications examined the draft meeting of 22 April 2015. The College of Telecommunications and Posts has maintained a high scientific, professional and pedagogical level since its establishment in 1881 until now. In addition, a number of opinions have been received in support of the draft decision, as the educational establishment has a rich material base, excellent academic staff, traditions in the training of specialist staff with practical focus, etc. As a result of the discussions held and in view of the future needs of staff in the sphere of telecommunications, information technology and management in telecommunications and post offices, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 11 votes
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u181	The debate is open. Are there any MPs willing to participate in it? I won't. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote the draft decision on the transformation of the College of Telecommunications and Posts Sofia, Varna University of Telecommunications and Post Offices with headquarters in Sofia. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The decision has been adopted unanimously. Communication of Parliamentary Control on 22 May 2015, 11:00, Friday.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-21.u182	First in parliamentary control tomorrow will answer the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova will answer five questions from the MPs Georgi Kadiev, Petar Slavov, Rushen Riza, Krasimir Yankov, and Ayhan Etem and Erdinch Hajrula and one question from the MP Petar Slavov. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev will answer one question from the MP Volen Siderov. 3. Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin will answer a question from the MPs Maya Manolova and Dora Yankova. 4. The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev will answer eight questions from the MPs Mariana Boyadjieva and Stoyan Mirchev, Dora Yankova, Willi Lilkov, Cornelia Marinova [[two questions]] , Georgi Tarnovalyski, Valeri Zablyanov and Mariana Boyadjieva, Ivan Stankov, and Kalina Balabanov and two questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Mariana Boyadjieva, Valeri Zablyanov and Georgi Turnovaliyski, and Ivan Stankov and Georgi Kuchukov. 5. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer 21 questions from the MPs Maya Manolova, Dzhevdet Chakarov and Mehmed Ataman, Nikolay Alexandrov, Mariana Georgieva, Dora Yankova, Zhelyo Boychev [[two questions]] , Petar Kanev, Cornelia Ninova, Ivan Slavov Ivanov, Petar Slavov [[two questions]] , Manol Genov, Hussein Hafuzov, Georgi Andonov and Daniela Saveklieva, Krasimir Yankov, Nevin Hasan, Ivan Valkov, Mihail Mikov, Slavi Binev, and Rumen Yonchev and two questions from the MPs Svetoslav Belemezov, and Manol Genov. 6. Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer 21 questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev, Dimitar Delchev [[two questions]] Boris Yachev, Svetla Bachvarova [[three questions]] , Cornelia Ninova, Manol Genov, Ivan Kirilov Ivanov and Rumen Hristov, Nikolay Alexandrov, Slavi Binev, Maya Manolova [[two questions]] , Vili Lilkov, Georgi Kadiev, Mihail Mikov, Petar Kadiev, Ivan Stankov, Krasimir Yankov, and Philip Popov and a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Dora Yankova. 7. Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer nine questions from the MPs Slavcho Atanasov, Slavi Binev, Petar Slavov [[two questions]] , Georgi Svilenski, Zhelyo Boychev and Stoyan Mirchev, Miho Mihov, Martin Dimitrov, and Petar Kadiev. 8. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer ten questions from the MPs Desislav Chukolov, Krasimir Yankov [[two questions]] , Georgi Bozhinov, Alexander Metodiev, Martin Dimitrov, Philip Popov, Slavi Binev, Georgi Svilenski, and Kalina Balabanov and Nikolay Alexandrov. 9. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer five questions from the MPs Volen Siderov, Petar Slavov, Manol Genov, Vladimir Toshev, and Milen Mihov. 10. The Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov will answer two questions from the MPs Maya Manolova, and Willi Lilkov and one question from the MPs Chavdar Georgiev and Philip Popov. 11. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer eight questions from MPs Vili Lilkov [[two questions]] , Nikolay Alexandrov, Krasimir Yankov, Petar Slavov [[two questions]] , and Martin Dimitrov [[two questions]] . 12. The Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov will answer two questions from the MPs Boris Yachev, and Stanislav Stanilov. 13. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer two questions from the MPs Jayhan Ibryamov, and Lyubomir Vladimirov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova.. to two questions from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Issues Meglena Kuneva to a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva to two questions with written answer from the MPs Metodi Andreyev, and Mariana Boyadjieva; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to two questions from the MPs Georgi Bojinov, and Georgi Kadiev, and to one question from the MPs Krasimir Karakachanov and Iskren Veselinov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov and four questions with written answer from the MPs Kalina Balabanova [[two questions]] , Stephanie Mihailova, and Metodi Andreyev; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov to two questions with written answer from the MPs Emil Raynov, and Svetlin Tanchev and Borislav Iglev. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 4 and art. 97, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, due to the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - 5 questions from the National Representative Stefan Kenov to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov, to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova and to the Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva; - three questions from the National Representative Borislav Iglev to the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev, to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova and to the Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski and Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov will not participate. Due to a prior commitment to the parliamentary control meeting, Minister of Health Petar Moskov will not participate. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister for Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva will not participate. Dear colleagues, we will continue tomorrow on the adopted weekly agenda. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
