ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. Please register. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. According to the programme adopted yesterday as the first item of the day, Thursday, April 30th, it follows: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY PROTECTION LAW. Importers are Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. Before that, two messages: On 29 April 2015 he received and distributed to the MPs a general draft of the bills to supplement the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control adopted on the first vote on 22 April 2015. The project was drawn up by the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism on the grounds of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote, which shall be until 7 May 2015. On 29 April 2015 the National Statistical Institute received information about the business climate in industry, construction, trade and services in April 2015. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition has received reports from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism as the lead, and a report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Mr. Kanev, we expect you to present the report of the permanent Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u2	Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition, No 454-01-36, submitted by Mikhail Raykov Mikov and a group of MPs on 6 November This appropriation At its regular meeting on 21 January 2015, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Commission for Protection of Competition, Bulgarian Agency for Food Safety, CRIB, BCCI, BIA, CNSB and others. The bill was presented by MP Cornelia Ninova. According to importers, it aims to supplement existing provisions and thus create conditions for a consistent policy for the protection of national markets, the production, supply and distribution of goods and services and to prevent unfair commercial practices from being used. It was prepared following an analysis of the Bulgarian legal framework and that in other Member States of the European Union, of the unfair commercial practices in the supply of food and non-food goods, the subject of the Green Paper of the European Commission, and of the practice in this regard on the Bulgarian market. The notion of a significant market power is introduced for an undertaking which, in view of its market share, can prevent competition in the relevant market because its suppliers or buyers are dependent on it. The criteria for determining and assessing the market situation of those undertakings are also intended to be determined by a methodology. An obligation is introduced for enterprises with an annual turnover of more than 50 million for the previous year. lv. to make changes to the draft type contracts and/or general terms and conditions where necessary to align them with competition rules, to publish on their website the conformity assessment received by the Commission for Protection of Competition, type contracts and/or general terms and conditions and to comply with them when concluding periodic delivery contracts In the event of non-compliance with those obligations, a penalty of up to 10 per cent of the total turnover for the preceding financial year is provided for. Written opinions on the bill are requested and presented by the Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Commission for Protection of Competition, BIA, AICB, CRIB and BCCI. In the course of the discussion, the public representative Martin Dimitrov pointed out that a decision outside the legislative form will be much more effective by giving an example of ethical codes of conduct in different areas. People's representative Zhelyo Boychev noted that in Europe there is no uniform practice regarding the settlement of this kind of relationship and stressed that as a result of the public discussion held in the Forty-second National Assembly on the same Law, some of the unfair commercial practices no longer exist, and many of the texts agreed with the trade chains. The MPs Kiril Tsochev and Boris Yachev supported the philosophy of the Bill, saying that between the first and second votes of the Bill many of the texts need to be refined in order to protect the objectives set out in the motives. From the Association for Modern Trade, a collective member of CRIB, said that self-regulation should be given a chance and pointed out that unfair trade practices are throughout the chain and not only in the chain of commerce. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism suggests that the National Assembly should not adopt the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition, No 454-01-36, submitted by Mikhail Raykov Mikov and a group of MPs on 6 November 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u3	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. We will now hear the report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u4	♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition, No 454-01-36, submitted by the National Representative Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs on 6 November 2014. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 11 March 2015, discussing a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition, No 454-01-36, submitted by the National Representative Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs on 6 November 2014. In the Commission's work took part: from the Ministry of Agriculture and Foods Desislava Vassileva, Head of Department at the Department of Analysis and Strategic Planning. from the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency Emil Krastev, Director of the Department of Legal and Normal Services and Dr. Rayna Ivanova, Head of the Department of Retail Food Trading. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by the MP Rumen Gechev. The Commission on Agriculture and Foods is responsible for the envisaged changes to the Food Act. They offer them for periodic deliveries of intended for sale to buyers with a total annual turnover of more than 50 million for the previous year. lv. to conclude written contracts in accordance with type contracts and/or general terms and conditions for the supply of food, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Protection of Competition and the rules of sound commercial practice. A number of restrictive provisions are provided for in respect of the clauses that may be included in the contracts. They will not be able to include binding provisions for the provision of services by the buyer to the seller; prohibitions and restrictions on the seller to offer its goods to other buyers; restrictions on the supply or withdrawal of goods under a registered manufacturer's own trademark; restrictions on the trading partner to provide the same or better conditions to third parties as well as unjustified high charges. Contracts will be subject to official control. Sanctions for infringements are provided for. The contracts already concluded should be aligned with the new requirements within three months. Food retailers will not be able to transfer to suppliers the responsibility for foods that have expired on the retail outlet for storage and for food scrapped at the establishment unless they are supplied with faults. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food does not support the Bill. In the subsequent discussion, everyone agreed that it was necessary to take measures aimed at limiting unfair commercial practices and ensuring equality between the Contracting Parties, but representatives of the parliamentary groups of PP GERB, the Reformist Block and the Patriotic Front also highlighted a number of shortcomings of the proposed Draft. The MPs recalled that despite the discussion that was initiated, there is no uniform policy on measures to combat unfair trade practices at European Union level and it is a matter of national decision the introduction of mechanisms in line with local conditions. In this regard, according to much of the speeches, the bill does not offer a complete solution to the problem. According to them, legislative changes in the area of unfair commercial practices should be made following an analysis of the effect of applying possible forms of regulation and after discussing with interested parties. In their preparation, it is mandatory to involve specialists in competition and commercial law, as undue legislative intervention can lead to distortion of market relations. They also stressed that the Draft Law does not take into account the opinion of the Commission for Protection of Competition and of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, which does not have the capacity and specific competence to perform control functions as regards requirements for contracts between suppliers and buyers. It was recalled that the Food Act regulates the requirements to be met by foods for the purpose of placing them on the market and there is no place in it for texts concerning trade relations between legal entities. They pointed out that the Bulgarian producers not only voluntarily enter into these contracts, but given the limited commercial area in the stores of large retail chains, there is serious competition between those of them who want to offer their products. In addition, as a result of public pressure and the lengthy debate on the subject, the first positive results have already been achieved and agreements have been reached to respect loyal commercial practices. Following the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 4 votes in favour, 9 votes in opposition and 2 votes in abstentions proposed that the National Assembly should not adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition, No 454-01-36, submitted by the National Representative Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs on 6 November 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u5	Thank you, Mr. Martinov. On behalf of the importer, the bill will be presented by Mrs Cornelia Ninova. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! Once again, we will consider the Law on Protection of Competition, better known as the Law on Trade Chains. The importers of this bill are led by one goal.. to support the producers of Bulgarian goods, to support the jobs of the people who work in these companies and to support the budget through the revenues that come from such production. We want to do this by ensuring that the free market environment competition is respected through the Law and free negotiation, levelling the conditions between the Bulgarian producers and the retail chains in their work on the market. We claim that there was in time, perhaps now there are so-called unfair practices, which distort the free market environment and lead to abuse of the retail chains to the Bulgarian producers. Our proposals have argued with two groups of these. We reviewed the European legislation on this topic. You already know that the European Union has established the so-called "unfair practices" in the territory of the Union, issued its Green Paper and enabled each Member State to resolve this issue through its national legislation. A common European one is to be adopted, but until then each country can resolve the matter as it sees fit in its legislation. Some of the European countries have decided it by law, another part by means of the Code of Ethics, third part by free trade rules, that is, there is a practice to discuss and resolve these issues. The second group of arguments that we have used for me is the declaration of producers in Bulgaria, it is 10 associations of dairy producers, meat producers, sugar products and so on, not to list them all, you have this declaration, it is addressed to the parliament in which they appeal to our responsibility to help them continue to work, to produce, to provide jobs and to import taxes. In their declaration, colleagues, it says that they are 1500 Bulgarian companies, more than 130 thousand. workers and practically provide the livelihood of over 600,000. Bulgarian citizens. I think a serious representative group of small and medium-sized businesses as well as Bulgarian citizens, to whom we should pay serious, reasoned and stately attention. With our proposals in the Law, we are by no means breaking European rules, introducing superregulations and not involving the state in free contractual relations, on the contrary, quite the contrary. In fact, colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the fact that some of the texts we are proposing have long been regulated in other laws and market subjects are obliged to comply with these laws, such as we are proposing not to impose on the Bulgarian producers fees and services which do not correspond to the service actually provided by the other party. We mean, for example, in the past, the so-called birthday fees. Fees are accepted, or fees are required by suppliers if the store has a birthday. Against this no service is provided, it only costs the goods and makes its sale more difficult. I would like to say to you that such a text exists in the State Fees Act, where it is said that fees are determined on the basis of the necessary material and technical and administrative costs for the provision of the service. That is why we say no charges are allowed against which no service is provided. Secondly, we forbid the risk to be transferred back to the supplier when the store has failed to sell the goods. In other Bulgarian laws, for example in the Law on Obligations and Contracts, there is a text in art. 194, which shows that the risk is transferred to the retail chain, i.e. to the buyer when the goods are handed over and approved. Dear colleagues, we prohibit in this Law the obstruction of a Bulgarian producer and trader to sell freely and to freely determine its market price to third parties outside its contract in the retail chains. What do we mean? You probably know about the prohibition of the retail chains to the Bulgarian suppliers if they sell at a certain price, not to sell elsewhere in the country and other shops at a lower price. Not only is it not markety, it smells like a cartel. That is why we say that this is not acceptable and is prohibited, thereby guaranteeing free negotiation and price setting by Bulgarian producers. I would like to look at the arguments of our opponents. This is the representation of the Association of Trade Chains. They say in the last meeting of the Economic Commission, from which I have drawn part of the shorthand: Further, as a result of this discussion, which we are having here, these are no longer being applied, that is to say, they have taken note and no longer apply such unfair practices. Then, honourable representatives of the retail chains, since you have already corrected this behavior of your own, I think there is no obstacle to recording it in the Law. You are already fulfilling what we propose, in your words, let us write it in the Law so that there are no temptations in the future to again be such unfair commercial practices. The second argument of our opponents on this Law is that if you allow these texts to enter the Law, market prices will rise. Time proved that this thesis didn't last either. We've had this argument for the past three years. Trade chains claim to have corrected their behaviour and implemented our proposals in the Law. Did that, my colleagues, lead to a rise in the price of the goods? No! Nothing like that happened. That is, this argument is also self-refutable, so to speak, from the retail chains. Therefore, we have one thing left to make a sensible decision to support Bulgarian production, Bulgarian companies, jobs in these companies, revenues in the budget, of course, with open between first and second reading intentions to improve and complement the texts we offer, as we did last time. Let's make a team between first and second readings. Like the last time to participate in it, Bulgarian producers, representatives of retail chains, representatives of the political parties that we need to make a decision. After all, the product of this team should be a meaningful, working, applicable law that is not contrary to European norms, but introduces rules which all foreign investors are obliged to comply with. It's not a blow to them. They are welcome, but still to be fully aware that Bulgaria is a Member State of the European Union, that there are laws here and they must comply with them. I give a final example of such an argument.. the payment terms. Dear colleagues, two of the retail chains do not pay the Bulgarian producers for six months. This does not happen in Europe, but it is allowed in Bulgaria. Although in the Commercial Law we have a text which these same people have recently adopted, and it is said that they are obliged to delay payment no more than 60 days. This is why we appeal for equal application of the laws in Europe and in Bulgaria and for equality between Bulgarian and foreign companies, who are welcome to do business in Bulgaria, under conditions and rules that are beneficial for the national interest and for the Bulgarian economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. The debate is open. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to participate in it to give a sign. I don't see one. The debate is closed. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition with importer Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs. We vote. Vote 138 MPs: 95 against 2, abstention 41. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Procedure Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u8	Colleagues, I have a proposal to extend the deadline for proposals between first and second readings to three weeks. The law is not uniform. I have to tell you that we made a reference to the Economic Policy Committee. The first proposal under this Law is from 17 February 2012, with importer Ivan Kostov. You understand that we have been dealing with this problem for four years. There's a lot of lyrics to be refined. My request is: give yourself the consent to extend proposals between first and second readings to three weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u9	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal for an extension of the deadline for proposals between the first and second readings of three weeks. Vote 152 MPs: 150, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR ENERGY EFFICIENCY "A sequel from yesterday's plenary session. Mr. Dobrev, I expect you to present the report. On yesterday we voted art. 83 by importer, as was supported by the Commission. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 84.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u10	Thank you, Madam President. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 84: Art. 84. (1) The General Assembly of the donors shall be composed of the donors of the fund. (2) The meeting of donors: 1. adopt rules for the organisation of work and the activities of the fund; 2. elect and dismiss the members of the Management Board of the Fund under art. 85, para. 1, t. 6; 3. decide to terminate the activities of the fund; 4. approve the revenue and expenditure of the budget and the annual activity report of the Fund and adopt the annual budget for the following calendar year; 5. solves other issues provided in its jurisdiction by law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u11	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 84. They voted 101 MPs: 99, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u12	Article 85. Proposal by the MP Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 85: Art. 85. (1) The Fund shall be managed by a Management Board consisting of 11 members as follows: 1. representative of the Ministry of Energy designated by the Minister of Energy; 2. representative of the Ministry of Economy appointed by the Minister of Economy; 3. representative of the Ministry of Environment and Water, designated by the Minister of Environment and Water; 4. representative of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, appointed by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works; 5. the Executive Director of the Agency; 6.Six representatives elected by the General Assembly of donors of the Fund as follows: (a) a representative of non-governmental organisations whose activity is aimed at reducing the risk of global climate change; (b) three experts with higher economic education with experience in the financing of energy projects; (c) Senior energy efficiency expert technical education; (d) an expert in renewables with higher levels technical education. (2) The term of office of the members of the Management Board shall be two years. (3) The Management Board shall elect a Chair from among its members for a period of one year. (4) Upon expiry of the term of office of the Chair, the member of the Management Board holding that post shall remain a member of the Management Board until the expiry of the term of office. (5) A member of the Management Board may not be a natural person or a representative of a legal person who is: 1. convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature; 2. husband or relative by line of rights or by line to the fourth degree and by matchmaking to the third degree, including with another member of the management board of the fund; 3. by service or by contract of employment in the administration, with the exception of the persons referred to in para. 1, t. 1-5. (6) Where any of the circumstances under para. 5, he is due within 7 days from the occurrence of the fact that the President of the European Union has been informed, the board of directors. (7) The General Assembly of donors shall decide on the release of a member of the Management Board in the event of a circumstance under para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u13	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 85. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u14	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 86.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u15	We vote. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u16	Article 87. Proposal by the National Representative Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 87: Art. 87. (1) The Fund Manager shall support the activities of the Management Board and carry out the operational management of the Fund. (2) The fund manager shall: 1. represents the fund; 2. support the activities of the Management Board; the exercise of his powers under art. 86, para. 2, p. 1-6; 3. draw up a draft strategy for the activities of the Fund; 4. prepare a business plan and draft budget for revenue and expenditure and ensure the implementation of the budget approved by the Management Board; 5. prepare the necessary documentation for financing and guaranteeing projects in accordance with the law and concluded agreements with donors; 6. prepare an annual report for projects implemented to achieve individual energy savings targets of the debtors under art. 14, para. 4 financed through the Fund and made it available to the Agency no later than 31 January of the year following the reporting year; 7. prepare reports and other material for review and approval by the Management Board in accordance with the internal rules of the Fund; 8. publishes on the website of the fund the information under art. 86, para. 2, p. 7 and 8; 9. prepare the meetings of the Management Board; 10. sign the financing and guarantee contracts approved by the Management Board for projects concluded with the Fund; 11. regularly inform the Management Board of the level of implementation of the funded projects; 12. assigns and releases employees in the fund; 13. Responds to the preservation of the property of the fund; 14. carry out other activities entrusted to it by decision of the Management Board.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u17	Are there any speeches? I won't. Vote art. 87. Vote 89 MPs: 88, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u18	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 88.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u19	We vote. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u20	Proposal of the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov, Zhelyo Boychev and Dragomir Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u21	He's retiring.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u22	The offer has been withdrawn. "Chapter 5" Energy Efficiency Control. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u23	We vote. Vote 82 MPs: 81 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u24	Under art. 89 has a proposal from the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Alexander Nenkov, Valentin Nikolov and Dimitar Zhelev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle, i.e. 2 is reflected in art. 90. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 89: Art. 89. (1) The Executive Director of the Agency shall exercise control over the activities of: 1. final customers where carrying out activities and measures to increase energy efficiency under this law or any other regulatory act is mandatory for them; 2. the debtors under art. 14, para. 4 in the implementation of their individual energy savings targets; 3. Contractors under art. 161, para. 1 of the Law on construction of the territory for the fulfilment of their obligation under art. 39, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 4. The organs under art. 12 for the presentation of reports on the implementation of the programmes under art. 12; 5. the persons referred to in art. 43, para. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 59, para. 1. (2) In the exercise of its control powers, the Executive Director of the Agency shall: 1. perform checks on the persons under para. 1 by authorised by him employees; 2. perform checks on the audits by system or random selection of inspected buildings, enterprises, industrial systems and/or systems for external artificial lighting by staff authorised by him; 3. imposes the administrative penalties provided for by this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u25	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 89. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u26	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 90: Art. 90. (1) Control of the activity of the persons under art. 43, para. 1 and 2 shall be carried out by: 1. verification of the validity of the input data for the building used to issue the energy performance certificate and of the results indicated in the certificate; 2. verification of the input data entered in the energy performance certificate and the results, including the prescribed energy efficiency enhancement measures; 3. complete verification of the data, results and of the the measures prescribed to increase energy efficiency by on-the-spot visit in order to verify compliance between the data referred to in the energy performance certificate, and the certified building; 4. verification of compliance with the requirements of the Regulation art. 44, para. 9. (2) Control of the activity of the persons under art. 59, para. 1 shall be carried out by: 1. verification of the validity of the input data of enterprises, industrial systems and/or external artificial lighting systems used for carrying out the audit and of the results indicated in the report; 2. verification of the validity of the input data and the results of the survey, as well as of the prescribed measures to increase energy efficiency; 3. complete verification of the data, results and of the the measures prescribed to increase energy efficiency by on-the-spot visit in order to verify compliance between the results referred to in the audit/verification documents, and the state of the industrial system/installation; 4. verification of compliance with the requirements of the Regulation art. 44, para. 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u27	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 90. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u28	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 91: Art. 91. (1) Persons carrying out checks shall be determined by order of the Executive Director of the Agency. (2) The persons under para. 1 shall be legitimised by the order and by a service card certifying the position they hold.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u29	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 91. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u30	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 92: Art. 92. (1) The persons referred to in art. 91 are entitled: 1. of free access to the objects of inspection; 2. to require documents necessary for carrying out the verification from the persons examined; 3. of inspections of the audits determined by the regulations under art. Art. 48, Art. 57, para. 6; 4. draw up acts establishing administrative infringements. (2) For buildings, enterprises, industrial systems and external artificial lighting systems, owned by the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior, the actions under para. 1 shall be carried out under conditions and in order laid down in the relevant laws. (3) The persons referred to in art. 91 are obliged not to disclose the business and business secrets which have become known to them in the course of or on the occasion of the exercise of the control activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u31	There are no speeches. Vote art. 92. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u32	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 93.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u33	We vote. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u34	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 94: Art. 94. (1) For the results of the checks, the persons referred to in art. 91 draw up a constant protocol to which they apply the data, documents and explanations collected. (2) The minutes shall be signed by the maker, by the person examined and, in the event of refusal, by two witnesses of the refusal. (3) The minutes shall be made available to the inspected person who is entitled to give explanations and raise objections within 14 days of the date of his service.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u35	Statements? I won't. We vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u36	They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u37	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 95: Art. 95. (1) Based on the results of the inspection, the persons referred to in art. 91 may: 1. give mandatory prescriptions to the persons inspected for the resolution of detected infringements and set a time limit for their implementation; 2. The constituent acts for the identification of administrative infringements. (2) The persons to whom mandatory prescriptions are given shall inform the persons under art. 91 for their implementation within the prescribed time limit.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u38	Statements? I won't. Voting mode. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u39	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 96. "Chapter Six" - Administrative Penal Provisions. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Six.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u40	Vote art. 96 and the name of Chapter Six. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u41	Under art. 97 has a proposal from the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Alexander Nenkov, Valentin Nikolov and Dimitar Zhelev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 97: Art. 97. To a debtor under art. 14, para. 4 which failed to meet its individual target for annual new energy savings in the size of art. 14, para. 5 or not made a contribution according to art. 21, t. 2, a fine from 1000 to 5000 BGN is imposed. or a penalty of 5000 to 500,000 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u42	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 97 in the Commission's version. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u43	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 98: Art. 98. To a contracting entity within the meaning of art. 161, para. 1 of the Law on construction of the territory which failed to fulfil its obligation under art. 33, para. 1, a fine from 1000 to 10 000 leva is required. or a penalty from 5000 to 50 000 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u44	Statements? I won't. Vote regime for art. 98. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u45	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 99. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 100. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 101. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 102. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 103. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 104. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 105. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 106. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 107. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 108. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 109. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 110. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 111. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 112. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 113. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 114. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 115.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u46	Statements? I won't. We vote anblok on the Commission from art. Art. 99 to art. 115 included. Vote 85 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u47	"Additional provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u48	We vote on the name of the division. Vote 82 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u49	By § 1 there is a proposal from the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Alexander Nenkov, Valentin Nikolov and Dimitar Zhelev. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Kancho Filipov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: "1." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 13 The additional provisions shall be replaced by heat water produced by hot water or steam. 2. The text in t. 14 of the Additional Provisions to be repealed and replaced by the text: "End energy consumption is the consumption of energy products supplied for the energy needs of the final customer.' 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 17 of the Additional Provisions, the word It's hot to fall. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 25 of the Additional Provisions, the word "heated' shall be "heated'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... For the 1. "Donor" is a natural or legal person, as well as a state that has participated with donations in the initial fundraising or making donations, including contributions from the debtors under art. 14, para. 4. 2. supplier of energy-efficient services is a natural or legal person who performs services involving the implementation of activities and/or measures to increase energy efficiency. 3. Energy products, fuels, heat, renewable energy, electricity or any other form of energy as defined in art. 2 point (d) of Regulation (EC) No 1099/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2008 on energy statistics (OB, L 304/1, 14 November 2008).). 4. "Energy efficiency in buildings" is the provision and maintenance of the regulatory parameters of the micro-climate in buildings, their heat storage and energy saving for the needs of buildings with minimal financial costs. The amount of energy savings determined by measuring and/or assessing energy consumption as a difference in energy consumption before and after the implementation of energy efficiency measures shall be measured and/or assessed, taking into account the external conditions affecting energy consumption. 6. "Energy service' is the material benefit, benefit or commodity obtained by combining energy with energy efficiency technology or with an action that may cover the operation, maintenance and control necessary to provide the service that is provided on the basis of a contract and has been demonstrated that, under normal circumstances, it results in an improvement of energy efficiency and/or primary energy savings to be verified and measured or assessed. The energy performance is an indicator that denotes the measured amount of really consumed or calculated energy needed for consumption, used to meet different energy needs related to the regulatory parameters of a building, including heating, heating of hot water, cooling, ventilation and lighting. 8. "Energy efficiency" is the ratio between the output of the product, service or energy produced and the input of energy. 9. "Skilling system" is an electronic system that can measure energy consumption by providing more information than a traditional measuring instrument and can transmit and receive data through a form of electronic communication. 10. "Climatic installation" is a combination of all components necessary to ensure air treatment when controlling its temperature with a possible combination of control of ventilation, humidity and air cleanliness. 11. "Cotel" is a facility that represents a combination of a boiler body and a fuel unit designed to heat up a fluid through the heat released during combustion. 12. Energy consumption is the energy consumption supplied for energy to the processing industry, mining, construction, transport, households, services, including public services, agriculture, forestry and fisheries. It excludes supplies to the energy sector and the energy sectors themselves. 13. The final customer is any natural or legal person who buys energy for its own use. 14. The new building is a new building that is being put into operation for the first time. 15. The maximum heat output specified and guaranteed by the manufacturer as possible to pass during continuous operation. 16. "Normalised' is an energy consumption that is necessary to ensure the regulatory parameters of the micro-climate in a building in its existing state. 17. The part of the building is a separate part, floor or apartment in a building designed or modified to be used separately. 18. The total amount of energy purchased by the final customer over a period of one year is the total amount of energy consumed by the final customer. 19. A process based on a systematic method for determining and evaluating energy flows and costs in buildings, enterprises, industrial systems and external artificial lighting systems is a process for determining the scope of the technological and economic parameters of energy efficiency measures. 20. The construction of a building covers more than 25 percent of the area of the building's external enclosures. 21. The heat waste is the residual heat from a process that, if technically possible and economically feasible, can be used. 22. "Increasing energy efficiency' is the result of the implementation of a measure or activity which results in a reduction of the ratio between the amount of energy invested and the output of the product, service or energy produced without deterioration of quality or other characteristics. 23. The maximum heat output expressed in kW, expressed in kW, for which the manufacturer has indicated and ensured that it is achieved in continuous operation, subject to the instructions for effective operation given by the manufacturer. 24. Energy Efficiency Programmes are activities and measures aimed at the groups of final customers that lead to a verifiable, measurable or measurable increase in energy efficiency. 25. It is a collection of production buildings, facilities, technologies and ancillary holdings involved in the production of goods and services. 26. The energy performance which leads to the lowest cost during the projected economic life cycle is the cost of costing cost-effectively, such as: (a) the lowest costs shall be determined taking into account the cost of investments relating to energy, maintenance costs and operating costs, including energy costs and energy savings, the category of building concerned, the revenue from energy produced, and disposal costs, where applicable; (b) The projected economic life cycle is the remaining projected economic life cycle of a building when the energy performance requirements are set for the building as a whole, or the projected economic life cycle of a building component, where the energy performance requirements are set for the building components. The energy performance shall take into account the level of optimal costs where the cost-benefit analysis calculated for the estimated economic life cycle gives a positive result. 27. The building is a construction with walls and roof, where energy is used to regulate the internal temperature. 28. A near-zero-energy building is a building that meets both of the following conditions: (a) the energy consumption of the building, defined as primary energy, corresponds to Class A of the energy class scale for the type of buildings concerned; (b) not less than 55 per cent of the energy consumed (provided) for heating, cooling, ventilation, hot water for domestic use and lighting is renewable energy located on a building level or near the building. 29. The energy performance certificate of a building is an official document issued by the energy efficiency consultants in the range of their competence in form and order, which includes the energy performance of a building calculated according to the methodology specified in the ordinance under art. 31, para. 4. 30. The certificate of design energy performance of a building is an official document issued by the energy efficiency consultants in the range of their competence in the established form and order, which includes an assessment of the design energy performance of a building calculated according to the methodology specified in the ordinance under art. 31, para. 4. 31. "Sizes to promote energy efficiency' is any instrument, scheme or mechanism that promotes increasing energy efficiency. 32. It is a machine, facility or installation that carries heat from the natural surroundings, such as air, water or soil, to buildings or industrial facilities by reversing the natural heat flow in such a way that it flows from lower to higher temperature. For invertable heat pumps, heat can also move from buildings to the natural surrounding environment. 33. It is a separate part of a building which includes spaces of the same functional purpose, heat and/or cold supply from one system, the same inhabitation mode, the same celestial orientation of the external enclosures (for cases where cooling is required) and specific requirements for ensuring the same parameters of the micro-climate in heating and cooling mode, where the temperature difference between spaces in one mode is less than 4 K. 34. "Financial instruments' are instruments such as funds, subsidies, tax benefits, loans, third-party financing, energy-saving contracts, guaranteed contracts, external procurement or other similar contracts that are marketed by public or private organisations in order to partially or fully cover the initial cost of the project implementing energy efficiency measures. 35. "Financial intermediaries" is a concept within the meaning of art. 2, p. 34 of Commission Regulation (EU) No 651/2014 of 17 June 2014 declaring certain categories of aid compatible with the internal market in application of art. 107 and 108 of the Treaty (OB, L 187/1 of 26 June 2014)). 36. "Central heating" or "central cooling" is a steam, hot water or cooled liquid supply through a network of central production sources to multiple buildings or other places for use in heating or cooling rooms or processes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u50	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u51	Madam President, honourable Members! In § 1, which we are discussing, et cetera. 6, we have written: a energy-efficient service is...................................................................................... is................................................................................................................................................................... What disturbs me in this text is the expression... or the assessment.. because in the end the measures that need to be done must lead to measurable, verifiable results. Words or judgements create some subjectivity, and one might say: I have done you an energy-efficient service, and I consider that this has happened, so in this regard I suggest the expression................................ to fall....................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u52	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u53	Mr. Ermenkov, this statement is also related to changes that we have already made in legislation concerning kilowatt hour or similar parameter, as I recall in the text which has been dropped. In this sense, your proposal for editing is now a consistent proposal of those you made in the previous articles of the Law. In this sense, it seems to me that your proposal is resonant, so we would support it if you did it as a procedure, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u54	Yes, it is. A hole? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. We are going to vote. First, I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Kancho Filipov, Petar Petrov, Rosen Petrov, Martin Ivanov, Georgi Nedev and Krasimira Kovachka, which the Commission does not support. They voted 83 MPs: for 7, against 28, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Ermenkov's proposal in § 1 of the Commission's version, including 6 drop the text:... or judgment. We vote on Mr. Ermenkov's proposal, supported in a line by Mr. Dobrev. They voted 83 MPs: 80, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. And we are now voting on the full version of § 1 of the Commission report, in line with the decision we have just adopted. Vote 88 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u55	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u56	We vote § 2. Vote 87 MPs: 84, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u57	Dear Madam President, colleagues, I am making a procedural proposal to return to art. 81. In the debate last week we had doubts whether the funds could be stored in the Bulgarian National Bank. Turns out they can't. The comment was from colleague Tasco Ermenkov. Even then, we said that we would propose a procedure for revoting this text. He's only been voted once, so I suggest we get back to art. 81 before we move on to "Transitional and final provisions." My specific procedural proposal is: in para. 2 words will be dropped from the Bulgarian National Bank.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u58	It's the end of the subparagraph. It should read: The funds of the fund shall be kept in at least three depositories with a license to operate in the territory of the country designated by means of a competition.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u59	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u60	Are there lines? I won't. I put to the vote the proposed version by Mr. Dobrev: in art. 81, para. 2 in the version of the Commission to drop at the end of the sentence the text.............................................................. by the Bulgarian National Bank...................................................................................................................................................................................... 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I should now put to the vote the full version of art. 81 on the Commission report, in line with the editorial decision we have just adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u61	Vote 87 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u62	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u63	We are voting on the transitional and final provisions and § 3. Vote 77 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u64	Paragraph 4? a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, the systematic location of which shall be: § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The Renewable Energy Act (signature) shall make the following amendments: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34, para. 5 words................................................................................. 51, para. the following point is inserted after 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 9 the words "same' shall be replaced by "supplied'; (b) c. 10 the words "sixteen' shall be replaced by "sixteenteen' and "sixteen' shall be replaced by "sixteen'.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u65	Statements? I won't. We are voting in the version of § 4, whose systematic place is like § 22. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u66	Paragraph 5? a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Kancho Filipov, Petar Petrov, Georgi Nedev. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be read in conjunction with the proposal referred to in point (a) of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the The following amendments shall be made in § 5: 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 137 is The individual heat meters in buildings floor property shall be installed in the publicly accessible parts of the buildings. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) paragraph 4 is amended as follows: At the end of the contract under para. 1 the clients in the building story property, or the association under art. 151, para. 1 within one month are obliged to choose another person registered under art. 139a with which the heat transfer undertaking or the heat supplier to enter into a contract. (b) A new para shall be created. 5. In the event that the clients in a building, or the association under art. 151, para. 1 shall not elect another person within one month of the termination of the contract under para. 1, the heat undertaking or the heat supplier shall start to carry out the service share distribution of heat, independently or through the award of a person registered under art. 139a................................................................................................. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 2 the words "the ownership of the appliances' shall be replaced by "the arrangements and the way in which the appliances are purchased'; (b) point 3 is amended as follows: "3." the methodology for the distribution of energy previously approved by the heat transfer undertaking. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 141. 1 is amended as The heating energy for the hot water supply of a building is determined by: 1. the amount of water consumed in the household hot water supply building, reported on the total water meter installed in front of the domestic hot water heater at the subscriber station and the amount of heat needed to heat 1 cube. m water determined under the conditions and under the order of the ordinance under art. 125, para. 3 or according to the methodology art. 140, para. 5, t. 3; 2. control heat meter in front of the domestic hot water heater installed at the request and at the expense of consumers. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 141, para. Art. 2, Art. 143, para. Art. 1 and 3, Art. 144, para. 6, art.145, para. Art. 3 and Art. 155, para. 2 at the end of sentences, as well as in Art. 1.44, para 5 after the words the order under art. 125, para. In the case of aid granted by the Member State concerned, the amount of aid referred to in point (a) of Article 1 (1) shall be calculated as the difference between the amount of the aid referred to in point (a) of Article 1 (1) and the amount of the aid referred to in point (b) of Article 1 (1) and the amount of the aid referred to in point (c) of Article 1 (1). 5, t. The following information shall be provided in accordance with 7. In point (a), point (a) is VARIANT 1 A new paragraph shall be set up: the Operational Control under art. 84, para. 6, p. 2 shall be carried out by the transmission network operator and/or the distribution network operator after the entry into force of the ordinance under art. 84, para. 7. VARIANT 2 A new paragraph shall be created: "Until entry into force of the regulation under art. 84, para. 7, the arrangements for carrying out the operational control referred to in Article 7. 84, para. 6, p. 2 by the transmission network operator and/or the distribution network operator shall be negotiated in a separate contract between the operator and the manufacturer. A new paragraph is set up: the Commission shall adopt a methodology to compensate for the non-recoverable costs of cogeneration plants within one month of the entry into force of this Act. A new paragraph shall be created: The purchase of the quantities of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration under art. 162, para. 1 to the amount of quantities fixed by a Commission decision fixing an individual price for installations shall enter into force after the Commission's decision on the price period from 01.07.2015 to 30.06. In accordance with The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, whose systematic place is as § 23: § 23. The Energy Act (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4, para. 2 t. 11 is amended as follows: "11." prepare and submit for approval by the Council of Ministers: (a) a comprehensive assessment of the potential for applying high-efficiency cogeneration and efficient district heating and cooling systems; (b) an analysis of costs and benefits as part of the comprehensive assessment referred to in (a) which covers an evaluation of programmes under art. 6, para. 1 and projects to establish the most cost-effective and beneficial heating or cooling opportunity; the analysis may be part of the environmental assessment of the programme and projects, if provided; (c) an analysis of national potential as part of the comprehensive assessment referred to in (a) and an assessment of progress made by increasing the share of high-efficiency cogeneration in gross electricity consumption; (d) measures for the development of efficient heating and cooling infrastructure and/or to support the development of high-efficiency cogeneration and the use of heat and cooling energy generated on the basis of waste heat and renewable energy sources, in accordance with the assessment and analysis referred to in points (a) and (b) and (c). 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the a) create t. 19a and 19b: 19a. requires electricity and gas network operators to assess the potential for energy efficiency of the networks concerned by reducing technological costs; the assessment shall include an analysis of transport, distribution, cargo management, the efficient operation of networks and the possibilities for connection of decentralised energy production installations; 19b. on the basis of the assessment under point (c) of paragraph 1, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the application of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 19a requires that specific measures and investments are included in the network development plans to improve energy efficiency in gas and electricity networks and a timetable for their implementation; (b) paragraph 33 is amended as follows: It's 33. monitor the fulfilment of the obligation to provide consumers with energy services with access to data on their consumption; 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23 are created t. 14 and 15: It's 14 years old. promoting increased energy efficiency in the production, transport, distribution and final consumption of energy and natural gas; 15. establishment of incentives for transmission and distribution system operators to provide system services to end customers which enable measures to be implemented to improve energy efficiency by introducing smart grids, taking into account the costs and benefits associated with each measure in ensuring the security of the system. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31 are created. 9, 10, 11 and 12: Nine. prices for transmission and distribution of electricity shall not limit the increase in energy efficiency in production, transmission and distribution of energy and the inclusion of optimization of consumption in balancing markets and the provision of additional services, as well as the coverage of network charges for reducing costs in networks achieved by consumers, optimization of energy consumption, decentralisation of production, reduction of supply costs or investment in networks and from optimization of network operation; 10. prices for transmission and distribution of electricity to enable the participation of final customers in improving the efficiency of the electricity system by optimizing consumption; 11. encouraging transmission and distribution network operators to offer system services for optimization of electricity consumption, energy management and decentralised production within organised electricity markets and to improve efficiency in the design and operation of networks, in particular: (a) transfer of the load from peak hours to unloaded hours by final customers, taking into account the availability of renewable energy, cogeneration and decentralised production; (b) saving energy by optimizing consumption from decentralised sources of production by combining the provision of energy efficient services and participation in the balancing electricity market; (c) reduction of consumption through energy efficiency measures implemented by energy efficient service providers; (d) connection and dispatch management of energy plants for the production of electricity at medium and low voltage; (e) the connection of energy plants for the production of electricity located closer to the points of consumption; (f) providing access to networks of energy storage facilities; 12. introducing dynamic pricing for measures for optimization of electricity consumption by end customers through: (a) prices accounting for the period of consumption; (b) prices for critical peak load periods; (c) real-time pricing; (d) reduced consumption discounts during periods of demand. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35, para. 2, p. 5 words................................................................................. 10, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 14, para. 6. In Chapter 3, the name of Section VI is hereby amended as follows: 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: (b) c. 5 after the word "supplier', including in case of change of contractual terms and prices, shall be added; (c) c. 7 shall be added at the end within three months of their receipt. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1: (aa) in the text before t. 1 the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier parties'; (bb) point 3 is amended as follows: "3." the actual quantities consumed and the value of the service provided in accordance with the agreed reporting frequency without additional payment obligation for that service; (c) The creation of a t. 8. It's 8 o'clock. the conditions for the provision of electronic billing information and electronic invoices. (b) A new para shall be created. 2 and para. 3: supplier or natural gas supplier provides customers with a wide selection of payment methods, including advance payment systems, which are fair and adequately reflecting the likely consumption. (3) The supplier of energy or natural gas shall provide to another supplier of energy or natural gas data for the consumption of a domestic customer where this is provided for in an explicit agreement between the customer and the supplier of energy or natural gas. c) the current para. 2 becomes para. 4; (d) Paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 5 and 6: Invoicing information shall be provided at least once every three months and upon request or when users have made the choice to receive electronic accounts twice a year. (6) Energy enterprises under para. 1 provide consumers with energy services related to the supply of electricity or natural gas, additional information on: 1. cumulative data for a period of at least three previous years or for the period from the entry into force of the supply contract if it is shorter; the data shall correspond to the intervals for which the billing information is provided; 2. details of the consumption for any day, week, month and year when using smart measurement systems by providing the final customer via the internet or via the interface of the data meter for a period not less than 24 previous months or for the period from the entry into force of the supply contract if it is shorter. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 words.............................................................................. 38a, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 38b, para. the (b) the creation of para. 5, 6, 7 and 8: The energy undertakings referred to in Article 1 (1) (b) of this Regulation shall be considered to be undertakings within the meaning of Article 3 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 38b, para. 1 shall notify their users of energy services to customers, of any proposed change in the contractual terms and prices of the services provided, and of the right of consumers to unilaterally terminate the contract within 30 days of the date of notification if they do not accept the new terms and/or prices. (6) The notification of price increases shall be made within the billing period following the entry into force of the price increase. (7) Where the Commission approves general conditions, the notification of a change of contractual terms shall be deemed to have been made from the date of publication of the approved general conditions. (8) Alinei 5-7 shall not apply to contracts for the supply of heat. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38 years of the words Art. 38a and 38b 38a, 38b and 38c. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) paragraph 2 is repealed; (b) A new para shall be created. 5. The electricity generators holding a power plant with a total installed electrical power up to 1 MW shall not be subject to annual control under para. 4. Those producers shall be subject to verification by the authorities of the Agency for State Financial Inspection on an established annual plan, on the basis of a risk assessment, on the following criteria: 1. date of entry into service; 2. amount of the preferential price for compulsory buying-in of the electricity produced; 3. date of conclusion of the buy-in contract with the final supplier; 4. type of energy source and production technology. c) the current para. 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 become respectively. 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11; (d) the current para. 11 becomes para. 12 and in it the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): the following points are inserted after point 11 (Commission (e) the current para. 12 becomes para. 13; (f) the current para. 13 becomes para. 14 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 11. The words "al." The following points are inserted after point 11 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 12ss and 12s; (g) the current para. 14 becomes para. 15 and in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) c. 4 after the words for the transfer of electricity through the power transmission network....including the priorities for access and dispatch management.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (b) c. 5 after the words for the transfer of electricity through the distribution networks, "including the priorities for access and dispatch management" shall be added. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 105th para is The energy producers from high-efficiency cogeneration may offer additional services to the transmission network operator in the cases under para. 7 where it is technically and economically compatible with the operation of the production site. 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point a) Previous text becomes para. 1 and in it the words speak. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (iii) (i) (i) I'm gonna do it with you. (b) the creation of para. 2: The energy producers from high-efficiency cogeneration may offer additional services to distribution network operators in the cases referred to in para. 1 where it is technically and economically compatible with the operation of the production site. 15. Article 135 is amended as follows: Art. 135. (1) The building installations of the customers join the heat transfer network through connection heat line and subscriber station. (2) When a new building is joined, an individual heat meter shall be installed in each individual property in the building at a competitive price. (3) When an existing building is joined after major renovation and processing of building heating installations from vertical to horizontal distribution, an individual heat meter shall be installed in each individual property in the building at a competitive price. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 140 is created a new para. 6: Where existing distribution funds for heating are replaced, individual heat meters shall be installed at a competitive price as far as technically possible or cost-effective in terms of potential energy savings. 17. Article 143 is amended as follows: Art. 143. (1) The consumers of heat in a building - floor property, choose a method for determining the amount of heat given by a building installation, under an established system of private distribution through individual distributors according to the ordinance under art. 125, para. 3. (2) Where the consumers of heat in a building-floor property do not choose a method for determining the amount of heat, the amount of heat attributed by the building installation in the introduction of a private distribution system through individual distributors shall be determined by the person under art. 139b, para. 1 according to the methodology of the ordinance under art. 125, para. 3. (3) The choice under para. 1 shall be carried out by a decision of the General Assembly of Owners or the Association of Owners under the Law on Floor Property Management. (4) Heat for heating the common parts of the building - floor property in which there are heating units, when applying private distribution through individual distributors, shall be determined on the basis of: 1. the power of the heating units, or 2. the indications of the individual distributors installed on them. (5) In the cases under para. 1, 2 and 4 heat is distributed to all customers in proportion to the heated volume of individual properties per project. 18. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 144, para. 3 words.............................................................................. 143, para. 1 and para. 2, p. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 143, para. 1, para. 2 and para. 4 t. 19. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." of 11 equal monthly contributions and one contribution to be paid; (b) A new para shall be created. 2: the heat consumption of the heat consumed on the basis of actual consumption at least once a year; c) the current para. 2 becomes para. 3. 20. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 162 is Each refusal to recognise a certificate of origin shall be notified to the European Commission. 21. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 shall be added at the end in case of relief procedures according to the regulation under art. 116, para. the following point is inserted after point 7 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): (b) A new para shall be created. 4. The transmission network operators and electricity distribution networks shall comply with the security criteria laid down by the rules of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1, t. 4 and 5 of this Law and Art. 18, para. 1 t. 1, 2 and 4 of the Renewable Energy Act are required to: 1. provide guaranteed access to the relevant grid of electricity produced from high-efficiency cogeneration; 2. ensure the transmission and distribution of electricity produced from high-efficiency cogeneration; 3. provide priority for the dispatch of electricity produced from high-efficiency cogeneration. 22. Article 163 is amended as follows: Art. 163. The criteria to be met by the comprehensive assessment, the cost-benefit analysis and the analysis of the national potential for high-efficiency cogeneration under art. 4, para. 2, p. 11 shall be determined by a regulation issued by the Minister of Energy. 23. In Chapter 11, Section II is created art. 163a: Art. 163a. (1) In the development of investment projects an analysis of the costs and benefits shall be carried out in accordance with the ordinance under art. 163 for installations with a total thermal input exceeding 20 MW in the case of: 1. planning of a new thermal power plant for the production of electricity in order to assess the costs and benefits of designing an installation that operates as an installation for high-efficiency cogeneration; 2. a significant refurbishment of a thermal power plant to assess the costs and benefits of refurbishing the installation as a high-efficiency cogeneration installation; 3. a significant refurbishment of an industrial installation generating waste heat at a useful temperature level in order to use the waste heat to meet economically justified demand, including through cogeneration, as well as by connecting this installation to a district heating or cooling network; 4. planning of a new district heating and cooling network; in the case of an existing district heating or cooling network, a new installation is planned to produce energy or significantly refurbish an existing installation for the purpose of recovery of waste heat from neighbouring industrial installations. (2) The companies responsible for the operation of district heating and cooling networks shall, at the request of the persons carrying out an analysis of the costs and benefits under para. 1 shall cooperate and provide the necessary information in the cases under para. 1, t. Three and four. (3) The installation of equipment to capture carbon dioxide produced by a combustion plant in view of its geological storage shall not be considered as refurbishing in the cases under para. 1, t. 2, 3 and 4. 24. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 207b, para. 1 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt 25. In § 1 of the additional provisions: (a) To be created t. 24c: "24c." The district heating and cooling systems shall be district heating or cooling systems using at least 50 per cent of renewable energy, 50 per cent of waste heat, 75 per cent of cogeneration heat or 50 per cent of a combination of such energy and heat; (b) A new item shall be created. 25: It's 25. The amount to be recovered shall be the amount to be recovered from the beneficiary in accordance with Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. (c) c. 41b (a) (b) The words "from a provider providing services in the public interest" shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u67	Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am making a procedural proposal in § 23 which I have just read to create a new item. 2. It is at the request of the Energy and Water Regulator Commission (KEWRC) to specify the composition of the water regulator in which cases there are and in which cases there are no jurisdictions. In our opinion, the text adopted a few months ago is sufficiently clear, but colleagues from the Commission do not think so. In this regard, my specific proposal is as follows: In § 23, a new item is created. 2: "2." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) In para. 1 the word the members shall be replaced by the total number of members or members of the staff concerned; (b) In para. 3 in the text before t. The number of members or members of the staff concerned shall be replaced by the number of members or members of the staff concerned. The other points in the paragraph shall be renumbered.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u69	Statements? Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, I propose at first glance a minor change in art. 143, para. 4 which reads: The thermal energy for heating of the common parts of the building shall be determined on the basis of: 1. the power of the heating units, or 2. the indications of the individual distributors installed on them. Here there is an opportunity to make a big gap by calculating the power that needs to be distributed on the basis of the power of the heating bodies. In my opinion, this is absolutely unfair, since it is not specified whether these heating bodies work at all. I hope you all understand. In accordance with the provisions of another law on floor property, heating units are considered to be those laid down under a project. Can you imagine? This is not fair and gives the possibility of abuse by companies dealing with a heat report. I propose a change in art. 143, para. 4 t. 1 to add the word "workers" when it comes to heating units. Then y. 1 acquires the type: "1." the power of the operating space heating units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u71	First line? I won't. Come in for a speech, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u72	Mr. Chairman, in support of what Mr. Valeri Simeonov said, I would like to propose two more minor additional adjustments. The first amendment is in art. 155, para. 1, t. 1 where the text reads: My editorial proposal is: 11 equal monthly contributions and two co-financing contributions. In this way, it will be possible to react in a timely manner if such misunderstandings are obtained with the calculation of heat on non-heated heating units. I can give you an example with me. I'm paying 500-600 leva right now. I have to wait until July to prove that I didn't consume that kind of energy, but I have already paid 3,000 levs. And I'm the creditor of the heat transfer company. The second amendment is in para. 2 of art. 155. The text reads as follows: The thermal energy undertaking or heat supplier shall charge the amount of heat consumed on the basis of actual consumption at least once a year. My editorial amendment is: at least twice a year. This has a huge logic, a huge purpose. Firstly, companies will not be allowed to accumulate obligations; secondly, citizens will not be allowed to be burdened with countervailable accounts with which either companies have to pay back money to citizens, or citizens will pay some irresistible countervailable accounts. With twice a year, there will also be one justice in terms of the quantities actually reported, as the European directive regulates in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u73	A line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. We are going to vote in the order of the proposals. According to § 5, there is a proposal from the MPs Kancho Filipov, Petar Petrov and Georgi Nedev. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be read in conjunction with the proposal referred to in point (a) of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the I put to the vote the unsupported part of the three MPs' proposal. They voted 84 MPs: 8 against 36, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. The next procedural proposal came from the President of the Commission Mr. Dobrev: In § 23, a new item is created. 2: "2." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 the word the members shall be replaced by the total number of members or members of the staff concerned; (b) in para. 3 in the text before t. The number of members or members of the staff concerned shall be replaced by the number of members or members of the staff concerned. The other points in the paragraph shall be renumbered. Voting mode. Vote 96 MPs: 94, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. The next offer received is from Mr. Valeri Simeonov in art. 143, para. 4 t. 1 to add the workers: the power of the working space units. It's supposed to look like this. The voting regime for this proposal. 90 MPs voted: 50, against 1, abstention 39. The Quorum is 66, the proposal is not accepted. Here you are, Mr. Simeonov, to do it from the stands as per the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! There were people who came in at the last minute. I have a feeling that some of the people present in this room also did not understand that at the moment, by accepting this text, all those living in heated buildings will pay, even if there are no radiators in the corridors, for example. With this minor amendment, we're imposing the obligation to pay only for a working radiator. Because there aren't even radiators anywhere. I'm asking for a re-vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u75	It's a rethink mode. They voted 91 MPs: 48 against 1, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. The same proposal is of Mr. Bayraktarov: in art. 155, para. 1, t. 1: The 11 equal monthly contributions and the one contribution to be paid. Mr. Bajraktarov's proposal is to become 11 equal monthly contributions and two equal contributions. Isn't that right, Mr. Bayraktarov? Disgusting opinion, a statement? I won't. Voting mode on Mr. Bajraktarov's proposal two countervailing contributions. Vote 88 MPs: 24, against 2, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want a re-vote. Colleagues, you obviously don't understand that this little change brings about justice in reporting. First, the possibility of companies being in debt and then applying a vicious practice to citizens who can also be in debt and become able to pay some countervailable accounts that are not in their pocket is eliminated. When there are two accounts, it is simply a fair system that does not in any way aggravate the work of the companies themselves and the operators themselves. It's so simple and easy to understand! I don't know why we don't want to introduce some justice that benefits both sides in this process.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u77	It's a rethink mode. They voted 89 MPs: 26, against 5, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. I also put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's second proposal, namely in the same article. 155, para. The amount of heat consumed by the heat supplier shall be at least once per year, i.e. twice per year, i.e.: the heat consumed by the heat supplier or the heat supplier, based on actual consumption at least once per year. The proposal is twice a year. Voting mode. Vote 94 MPs: 37 against 4, abstention 53 The offer is not accepted. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov, to make a proposal for a revoting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want a re-vote. Apparently, here is my colleague Dobrev saying that the two proposals are extremely reasonable. More than that. I say again: through these proposals the National Assembly allows for justice in the relations between operators and customers. Reporting and billing twice a year is the best possible way we can give our legislative activity. And I don't know, after all, are we working here for the citizens and for the business, or are we just working for some narrow corporate interests that see through your votes? I just don't get it! Is it so complicated to understand that we bring in simple justice, colleagues? Simple! And I urge you to really support these things, because this concerns thousands of your friends, close ones. I wonder what kind of eyes you'll look at them with tomorrow. I ask for a re-vote and support of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u79	It's a rethink mode. Vote 88 MPs: 37 against 5, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. Here you are, Mr. Dobrev, for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u80	Because I have been mentioned by Mr. Bajraktarov, I do think that the proposals are very clear, but I do not believe that they should be supported in this way in the Chamber with an editorial amendment, and that is why we abstained from our group and myself, because we need to assess what the financial effect of adopting this proposal will be. In essence, it means that a matching account will have not once but twice during the year. In order to have a second matching account, this means that the appliances with which the heat is measured must be detected. This means additional costs of heating. You understand that these heat efficiencys will probably include these additional costs in their requests to the SEWRC for price determination. So before we vote on one of these at first glance a very reasonable proposal, we need to assess its financial impact on not only heat efficiency, but also consumers. Therefore, I propose to Mr. Bajraktarov and I take the opportunity for this personal explanation, for the next bill under consideration to be submitted between first and second readings or as a bill at first reading, so that the financial effect can be assessed as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u81	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Colleagues, we are voting in the version of § 5, whose systematic place is as § 23. With the proposed proposal made and voted for § 23, with a new item. 2. Voting mode. They voted 93 MPs: 86 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u82	The Commission proposes to set up new paragraphs 24 and 25: .................................................................................. The assessment referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 shall be carried out by the competent authority of the Member State concerned. 4, para. 2, p. 11 point (a) of the Energy Act shall be drawn up and made available to the European Commission by 31 December 2015. At the request of the European Commission, the assessment shall be updated at every 5-year period. § 25. Until 31 December 2016, in buildings with a central heating/cooling source or which are supplied by a district heating network or from a central source serving multiple buildings, individual measuring instruments shall also be installed to account for the consumption of heat and cooling energy or hot water for each unit, where technically possible, economically justified and such measuring instruments are not installed at the date of entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u83	Statements? I won't. We are voting on § 24 and § 25 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 79, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u84	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u85	We vote. Vote 82 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u86	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. Contracting entities within the meaning of art. 161, para. 1 of the Construction Act in the territory of new buildings which are subject to mandatory certification under the repealed Energy Efficiency Act, which until the entry into force of this law are not put into service, are required to obtain a certificate of design energy performance of the building within one year of the entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u87	Statements? I won't. We vote § 7, which becomes § 5. Vote 82 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u88	Paragraphs 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 of the Commission shall support the text of the importer and the relevant paragraphs shall become § 6, § 7, § 8, § 9, § 10 and § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u89	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote paragraphs 6 to 11, including, in the Commission's numbering on its report. Vote 82 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u90	Under § 14 there is a proposal from the MPs Metodi Andreev, Stanislav Ivanov, Kostadin Markov. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Maya Manolova. The Commission does not support the proposal. The proposals are the same in § 14 words with level 1 rating to drop out. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u91	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposals of the MPs Metodi Andreev, Stanislav Ivanov, Kostadin Markov and Maya Manolova, who are identical and the Commission does not support them. [[Noise and lines.]] We are voting for an unsupported proposal. Vote 80 MPs: 14 against 31, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Dobrev reported the Commission's support for § 14, which became § 12. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 74 MPs: for 73, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u92	Under § 15 there is a proposal from the National Representative Petya Avramova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MPs Metodi Andreev and group. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the National Representative Maya Manolova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. (1) The certificates issued for entry in the registers under art. 23a, para. 1 and 34a, para. 1 of the repealed Energy Efficiency Act shall remain valid until the expiry of the period for which they were issued. (2) The certificates issued for successful examination under art. 23, para. 1, t. 3 (b) and 3 (c) 2, p. Art. 5 and art. 34, para. 1, t. Point 3 (c) of the repealed Energy Efficiency Act retain their validity and become timeless.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u93	Statements? I won't. We vote § 13. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u94	Proposal by the MP Metodi Andreev and a group of MPs for § 16. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the National Representative Maya Manolova is identical: In Paragraph 16, paragraph 16 is replaced by the following: 1 words with level 1 rating shall be dropped. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u95	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposals of the MPs Metodi Andreev, Stanislav Ivanov, Kostadin Markov and Maya Manolova, which are identical and not supported by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: 11 against 27, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 16 by importer, supported by the Commission, with a new numbering of § 14 on its report. Vote 79 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u96	The Commission shall support the text of the importer of § 17, which shall become § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer of § 18 which shall become § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u97	Anblok, we vote both paragraphs. Vote 75 MPs: 74 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u98	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. (1) National Energy Efficiency Action Plans shall be submitted to the European Commission every three years from 30 April 2014. (2) The national energy efficiency target shall be reported to the European Commission with the first national plan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u99	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 17 on the report and the version of the Commission. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u100	A proposal from MP Tasco Ermenkov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. The national plan for buildings with close to zero energy consumption shall be adopted by the Council of Ministers within 6 months of the entry into force of this Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u101	Statements? I won't. We vote § 18. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u102	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm The national plan for improving the energy performance of heated and/or cooled buildings, used by the state administration, is provided in the European Commission as part of the plans under art. 5, para. 3, p. 1 and updated every three years with effect from 30 April 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u103	Statements? I won't. We vote § 19. They voted 73 MPs: 72 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u104	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. The national long-term programme to promote investment to implement measures to improve the energy performance of buildings from the public and private national housing and commercial building fund shall be presented to the European Commission as part of the plans under art. 5, para. 3, p. 1 and updated every three years with effect from 30 April 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u105	Statements? I won't. We vote § 20. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u106	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. (1) The regulations governing the application of this law shall be adopted, respectively, issued and brought into conformity within 6 months of its entry into force. (2) Until the adoption, respectively, of the regulations laid down by this law, the regulations on the application of the repealed Energy Efficiency Act shall apply, insofar as they do not conflict with that law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u107	Statements? I won't. We vote § 21. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u108	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) The regulations on the implementation of the Energy Act shall be (2) Until the adoption, respectively, the issuing of the regulations under para. 1 The regulations in force shall apply insofar as they do not conflict with the Energy Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u109	Statements? I won't. We vote § 26. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u110	Proposal by the MP Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 27, 28, 29 and 30: "The Bible says: In the Public Procurement Act (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 5, para. 4 after the word "supplier" is added as well as for the services under the ECCO contracts within the meaning of the Energy Efficiency Act. § 28. In the Law on Corporate Income Tax (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 55, para. 6 the words "The Energy Efficiency Act" shall be replaced by "the Energy Efficiency Act" (prom., SG No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2009 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). § 29. In the Law on Local Taxes and Fees (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 24, para. 1, t. 18 and 19 words............................................................................................... The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 to amend this Regulation by means of § 30. In the Law on Construction of the Area (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1.In Art. 1. 142, para. 11 words.............................................................................. 23 a.s. are replaced by ................................................................................................. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 167, para. 2, p. 7 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u111	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for new paragraphs from § 27 to § 30, including in the version of the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u112	Proposal by the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov and a group of MPs: A new § 6 is being created. ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2, para. 1 of the Law on Municipal Debt (prom., SG No. ...) after the words "In compliance with the requirements of this Act" "with the exception of the financial commitments undertaken by the municipality under the provision of co-financing by the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund of the European Union to stimulate investment in measures to improve energy efficiency," as well as by the Energy Efficiency and Renewables Fund, or other existing or emerging target energy efficiency funds. The current § 7 " § 26" shall be renumbered as § 8 "Supreme 27" respectively. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u113	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u114	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor to withdraw the proposal, but not because it does not essentially correspond to the philosophy and meaning of the Energy Efficiency Act, but because I have the assurance that in the coming days there will be amendments to the Municipal Debt Act, where this proposal is the place and where we will discuss it properly. That's why I'm withdrawing the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u115	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Dobrev, please report § 25 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u116	Paragraph 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 32.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u117	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the two final paragraphs of this bill. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The proposal is adopted unanimously and with this the new Energy Efficiency Act. [[Applause from GERB.]] Gratitude to all who have actively participated in the debate and in the votes of the MPs and the rapporteur, of course, for the Stoicism of the Parliamentary Tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u118	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u119	Procedure Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u120	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to do the following procedure for displacement in the already adopted Programme for the working week of the National Assembly. 10 to be viewed now as t. 7, since this Water Bill, colleagues, is extremely important, with great public interest in it. Given that we made a change in the agenda yesterday and will be late, it may not come to this point, so I ask you to support the proposal if, of course, Madam President, you put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u121	Is there a reverse offer? No. I put to the vote Mr. Ivanov's proposal as a point. 7, next in our programme, let's discuss the first vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Water Act, and then vote accordingly. Voting mode. Vote 71 MPs: for 69, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We're gonna take a break now. We will continue at 12:00 with the first vote of the Bill amending and supplementing the Water Act. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u122	Colleagues, please take your seats. Let's move on to the next point: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE WATER LAW. Who on the committee will report? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to make a procedural proposal for access to the hall for Mr. Pavel Gudzherov, Deputy Minister of Environment and Water, and Mr. Assen Lichev, Director of the Water Management Directorate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u124	Please vote on admission to the House of the said experts. Colleagues, vote. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs to take their seats. Colleagues next to me are ready with the roll call list. I'll just wait ten more seconds. [[Noise and lines.]] Vote 69 MPs: for 69, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to take their seats. You are welcome to brief us on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Water Act, No 502-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 April 2015. At its regular meeting held on 23 April 2015, the Environment and Waters Commission examined at first reading a bill amending and supplementing the Water Act, No 502-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 April 2015. The Ministry of Environment and Waters attended the meeting: Mr. Pavel Gudzherov Deputy Minister, Mr. Asen Litchev Director of Water Management and Mrs. Yana Georgieva Director General of the Directorate General Operational Program Environment. The Secretary General of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision Mr. Valentin Chilikov is also present. On behalf of the importer, the bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Deputy Minister Pavel Gudgerov, who pointed out the main proposed amendments: in the first place, in the financial organisation and economic regulation in the field of water, including the effective implementation of the principle of the Secondly, to ensure the integration of water policy and policies into the sectors in the water sector, the definition of national priorities and the provision of implementation of programmes of measures in river basin management plans. Thirdly, to remove European Commission remarks on incorrect or incomplete transposition of directives in the field of water, including: deficiencies in the transposition of Directive 2000/60/EC relating to an open infringement procedure; removal of deficiencies in the transposition of Directive 2007/2/EC on the assessment and management of flood risk and avoidance of infringement; removal of deficiencies in the transposition of Directive 2006/118/EC on the protection of groundwater against pollution and deterioration, also for the avoidance of infringement proceedings. The proposed Draft overcomes the gaps in the process of the second planning cycle Another crucial point is the introduction of provisions relating to the planning, development and implementation of the Maritime Strategy and the programmes of measures to it, in order to protect and improve the state of the environment in marine waters, as well as repealing certain regulations relating to repealed directives. An official procedure for determining sanitary areas around water-based water-based water supply facilities of the population shall be introduced in order to facilitate the requirements of water-based operators and to take the necessary action. It is very important to regulate the control of the implementation of the measures to maintain the dams and facilities to them in the proper technical condition, to ensure their safe operation and to carry out their decommissioning activities until technological and constructive security has been restored or eradicated, and to entrust the control to the State Agency for Metrology and Technical Supervision. The obligations of dam owners are also regulated. It is envisaged that the activities of maintaining dams and facilities to them in proper technical condition in accordance with the regulations will be carried out by a dam operator with the necessary qualifications. The composition and duties of the committees, which are appointed by order of the district governor to investigate the technical and operational state of the dams and their facilities, are defined. It is envisaged that, within six months of the entry into force of this Law, the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision, will adopt a Ordinance on the conditions and procedures for carrying out the technical and safe operation of the dams and their facilities and for carrying out control of their technical condition. Attitude on the submitted bill took the MPs: Borislav Velikov, Dzhevdet Chakarov, Manol Genov, Willi Lilkov, Atanas Stoyanov, Hristo Todorov and Silvia Hubenova, who asked questions about the powers and activities of the Agency, revision of the permits, powers of mayors and district governors and some definitions received responses from Mr. Pavel Gudzherov, Mr. Valentin Chilekov and Mr. Assen Lichev. Following the discussion and termination of the debates, the Committee on Environment and Waters with 19 votes for.................................................................................................. STATEMENT: Asks the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Water Act, No 502-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 April 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u126	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. This was the report by the leading Committee on Environment and Water. We are about to hear the report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Who's gonna introduce us to him? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u127	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Water Act, No 502-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 April 2015. At its regular meeting on 29 April 2015, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the bill amending and supplementing the Water Act. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Environment and Waters: Pavel Gudzherov Deputy Minister, and Asen Litchev Director of the Department of Waters and Waters and by the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision: Stefan Tsankov Chairman; by the Association of producers of soft drinks Bulgaria: Jana Velichkova Executive Director; by CRIB (Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria): Rumyana Georgieva Secretary. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Pavel Gudgerov. He pointed out that the proposed amendments concern the removal of remarks from the European Commission on incorrect or incomplete transposition of European water legislation, financial organisation and economic regulation in the field of water, the definition of national priorities in the development of sectors in the water sector and ensuring the implementation of programmes of measures in river basin management plans. In the field of competence of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism falls under the supervision of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision of: - implementation of the measures to maintain the dams and their facilities in proper technical condition; - ensuring their safe operation; - implementation of activities to decommission them until technological and constructive security has been restored or eradicated. The obligations of dam owners are also regulated. The activities of maintaining the dams and their facilities in a proper technical condition are intended to be carried out by a dam operator with the necessary qualifications to carry out the technical operation of the dam and its facilities assigned to it by the owner. The composition and duties of committees to be appointed by order of the regional governors shall be determined to examine the technical and operational status of the dams and their facilities. The committees are intended to prescribe the implementation of the necessary actions to ensure the technical performance and safe operation of the dams and facilities thereto, to draw up protocols for the findings and prescriptions made, and to provide the information to the State Agency for Metrology and Technical Supervision. Within six months of the entry into force of the Law, upon a proposal from the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision, the Council of Ministers must adopt a Ordinance on the conditions and procedures for carrying out the technical and safe operation of the dams and facilities to them and for carrying out control of their technical condition. In the course of the discussion and in their written opinion by the Association of Non-alcoholic Beverage Producers in Bulgaria, they announced a ban on the multiple exploitation of resources in order to bottle natural mineral and spring waters by various economic operators. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Water Act, No 502-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 April 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. By order of the President, the Law is also submitted for an opinion by the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. There is no report from this Commission. Honourable Members, I declare this debate open and please, if there are any speeches, give a sign. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, the main thing that should have been said about the proposed amendments to the Water Act was said and became clear from the two reports of the committees which were just presented to you. Fellow Members, these are changes to which there is great public interest, as they concern dealing with the problem of flooding. In this Bill, the Council of Ministers proposes to replace obligations of the Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision to monitor the state of dams in the country. Dear colleagues, you know that by the end of last year over 260 dams were of unexplained ownership. At the moment there are none, except maybe about 10, but they have been handed over for the management of the district governors. This was extremely important in order to ensure that we are familiar with these facilities, we know their condition, the indicators that concern their seamless exploitation are monitored daily. In this way, we saw that, despite the great rains a few days ago, there literally wasn't a single emergency dam, either of those in a transmission state or of those who were not in such a state, but created different kinds of problems. For this reason, given that there is 100% coherence between the institutions, the Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision has a budget that will enable them to ensure that their new obligation to fulfil their replaced functions from the changes that we will make. I ask all of you to support this bill. I say again, in this way we will guarantee public security that from now on there will not be such problems as we had a year or two ago from the floods, not knowing which dam is in what state it is, who manages it, who is responsible and so on. Again, the main changes were affected in the two reports. From now on, I believe that with this Bill we will be able to be sure about the future of the population of Bulgaria and not to run after the problems. Therefore, colleagues, I will be as brief as possible, I am finishing with this, please all of you to support proposals from the Council of Ministers at first reading for amendment and supplement to the Water Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u130	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Dr. Jevdet Chakarov signed up for a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With the bill amending and supplementing the Water Act, which we examined at first reading in the Committee on Environment and Water, there are indeed some changes to our legislation. First of all, I would like to point out that there are positive changes in the safety of dams. It is undoubtedly important to regulate the control of the technical condition and the safe operation of the dams and their facilities, as well as the colleague has just pointed out. The proposed change for the participation of regional governors and the inclusion of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision in this process is also positive. A step in the right direction is the proposal of the district governor to carry out the organisation and technical operation of the dams with unclear ownership. A positive point in the fight against floods and the obligation of owners of water and hydrotechnical installations, including dams, is to use monitoring measuring and control equipment and to use an information system provided by the State Agency for Metrology and Technical Supervision. In this way, the state of water volumes in the dams and the state of dams and technical components that are towards them will be monitored more accurately. It is also a good proposal to destroy a hydrotechnical facility or part of it in order to prevent or limit damage, but it should be very well assessed whether it should be done, as is now proposed, by the mayor of the municipality or by the district governor. During the discussion we had when examining the first reading of the PID of the Law, the Commission adopted this on the part of the governor. That's our position, too. We believe that it is the correct position, given that the governor of the district is a representative of the state and in the communications and relations he would have with other entities, would have derived from this position. Another undoubtedly positive moment in the Bill is the introduction of an obligation to develop and implement the maritime strategy and the programmes of measures to it. Such a document will contribute to the protection and improvement of the state of the environment in marine waters. I hope, however, that this will not become another wishing document, but that there is a real executable programme of measures to be practically targeted, to be valued and to have funding provided for them, or at least to have funds provided for most of the measures. This is in view of both the protection of the waters on our Black Sea coast and the creation of better conditions for tourism, which we all have a huge need for. We support the repeal of some of the regulations under art. 135 of the Law. Environmental legislation is generally difficult and complex legislation, with multiple regulations. We can safely say that the Water Act is one of the laws with the most regulations on it. I would like to draw attention to one of the main imperfections of the Bill that, once again, there is no single body responsible for the floods. The establishment of a Water Coordination Council is proposed, which, like many other councils, will coordinate, but will not be responsible for anything, which is why there are no real independent powers. Moreover, the two powers given to him are quite controversial. What will the Council coordinate in the development of river basin management plans and flood risk management plans, provided that the Law clearly identifies the competent authorities responsible for their development and lists the coordination mechanisms for preparing documents. The second power of the Council is even more controversial. How and why would it coordinate the financing and implementation of programmes by measures to river basin management plans, flood plans, provided that the financial sources are specified in those documents, is indicated by whose responsibility for implementing the measure concerned? I was against the existence of such a Coordination Council when we discussed the National Strategy for Water Sector Management and Development. The management system does not need another institution without clear responsibilities and powers, but only with advisory functions. There is a huge need for a leading institution in terms of water, with clearly defined leading powers. The liability on this issue with the current Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Water Act is not resolved; the current PID, unfortunately, does not answer. In my opinion, this should be the Ministry of Environment and Water, but all of this must clearly be written down. We all have a responsibility and a commitment to this. The second major weakness of the Bill is the proposed official revision of the permits for water capture and use of a water site. I do not dispute that such a review may be necessary, taking into account the fact that it has also been requested by the services of the European Commission. However, I am concerned with the scope and the fact that the reason for initiating the procedure is the basis for changing the authorisations already granted. Some of the proposed provisions are very vague. With regard to the amendment of permits already granted, it should be stressed that there is no criterion in the Law on the basis of which to assess whether the exercise of the rights of the permit constitutes a pressure on the condition of water, contributes to the failure to achieve their well-being or whether the exercise of the rights of the permit constitutes a pressure on the condition of water, contributes to failure to comply with the conditions of art. 156b and 156g. There are no specific criteria in the Law on the basis of which to assess how the specific pressure on water from the relevant activities authorised by the relevant permit affects the ability of the water body concerned to achieve the objectives under art. 156a for good condition or potential. This creates prerequisites, I stress, for subjectiveism in judgment, and also in formulating new conditions. This also creates prerequisites for corruption, generates opportunities for uncontrolled economic pressure on private entities. Even greater is the omission in relation to the termination of the authorisation granted as there is no basis or at least not specified for termination. That provision, which should serve to give the right termination, states only that the modification or termination of the permit is included in the programmes of measures in the respective river basin management plan. As is apparent, that provision does not contain circumstances in which the authorisation should be suspended and this is inadmissible. It is also disturbing that river basin management plans, before being adopted in the legal order, are prepared by external consultants selected in accordance with the procedure of the VOP and not by the competent authority that issued the permit. This opens wide the door for discussion on who is actually carrying out the assessment, on the basis of which the competent authority will be justified to initiate the authorisation modification procedure. It is in this regard that the official amendment and termination of authorisations already granted are my greatest reservations regarding the proposed bill. But I would like to be correct during the discussion at the first reading of the Law in the Committee on Environment and Waters and the representatives of the Ministry, and the management, and the experts accepted our remarks. I hope that we will hear from them an answer containing the inclusion of a clear critical base for reviewing the so-called water use and water capture permits. Despite the reservations I have expressed, for which between first and second reading we will make proposals, I also turn to the experts of the Ministry to also think about improving the Law. It should be objective, correct, to regulate relations in this important water sector in the best way so that it is correct for citizens, to have predictability for business, not to change rules on the move and not to embarrass business about the initiatives and business investments undertaken. I hope we can do all this. With the condition that between first and second readings, we could all improve the Law and, in view of the commitments made by the experts in the Ministry in question, we will support the proposed Draft of First Voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. - What's the line? I can't see. To speak, the People's Representative Manol Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We generally support the philosophy of the Law and its requirements. You know, last year and last year, we had a lot of disasters. The fact that many of the dams are deserted is known, much of them are not supported. It's a good thing he's putting an agency in charge of things. The capacity is questionable at the moment, but hopefully by the end of the year, as promised, this capacity will be filled. We have concerns about the footage that will be found because we have less and less experts in the country. We have a lot of comments on the Bill, we will summarize our proposals and we will present them between first and second readings. I'd like to draw attention to a few things. Art. 29, Art. 145 of the proposed amendments, the mayor of the municipality must issue an order for the destruction of the hydrotechnical facility or part thereof, in case it is currently a danger of flooding, in which damage can occur, endanger people's lives and destroy material values. Here the responsibility of the state, as Mr. Chakarov pointed out before me, must be there, but there is another law with which this amendment must correspond. There we must have the positive opinion of the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population. What's gonna happen? A mayor gives orders to destroy a dam. The next mayor will come and begin to appeal the order because the former is a personal or political enemy. They're gonna start taking responsibility from the mayor for giving that order. There very clearly must be regulated the responsibilities that are assumed, because ultimately, there are deliberately destroyed facilities that cost money and have some value. So we will propose very clearly that responsibilities be scheduled. There is another member of § 62 who has been proposed for annulment. You know, over the years, there's been a big debate as to whether municipalities as owners can rent the dams. Not all municipalities have the opportunity to concessionate them, as concessions are an extremely difficult procedure for some of the municipalities that do not have this administrative capacity, so we will also propose that this paragraph should not be repealed. We have, as I said, a lot of suggestions between first and second readings. We'll bring them in for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u134	Thank you, Mr. Genov. - What's the line? I can't see. Is there anyone else who would like to make another statement? Mr. Bojinov, come in. I would like to inform the guests that, in the light of our Rules, you can take an attitude if you wish.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The Water Act regulates an extremely important circle of public relations. It has been changed many times in recent years for a reason. When one is concerned with such an important issue as the amendment of the Water Act, I think he should have before him or in his mind the motives of the importer for amending the law, the texts themselves that are changing, and the law that is changing. In addition, it is good to be aware of the opinion of people with high expertise, as well as of economic stakeholders under this law. This condition will lead to a large coincidence of the topics I will address with what former Minister Dzhevdet Chakarov spoke before me. Of course, I will express my attitude. Firstly, I would like to emphasise that the Act in force aims to ensure, stress, integrated water management in the interests of society and to protect the health of the population, creating a condition for a number of things set out in the law, including: the law in force, provides for the prevention and reduction of harmful consequences for human life and health, the environment, cultural heritage, the business activity related to the harmful effects of water. The objectives of the Law are achieved by a number of regulated activities, including the assessment and management of flood risk. Why am I saying this? Because the necessary conclusions and lessons from the tragic consequences of the natural anomalies that have befallen Bulgaria, if they are grounds for a number of necessary amendments to the law, we must emphasise that, under the responsibilities regulated by the law in force, if they were implemented by the institutions, many of these consequences would not have happened. Right? That's the truth. However, I support, in the case of the so regulated commitments, the first proposal of the applicant to specify this requirement to assess and manage the risks, with the particular obligation to carry out controls on the technical state of safety, the operation of the dams and the facilities to them, because, later on, in the body of the Law amending the law, this function is described and addressed to specific state institutions and hopefully in time is found personnel and financial provision so that the general recommendation in the current law can develop in real prevention, so that this moment is unconditionally worthy to be supported. As for the second extremely important moment, we are creating a coordination council. Mr. Chakarov is also talking about this. I've noticed that myself. What is the situation in the current Law? The current law, as I have pointed out, aims at integrated governance. All ministers are given specific policies and responsibilities in the different directions, and the Minister of Environment and Water is now entrusted with the Act in force with the exclusive responsibility of managing water at national level. It is carried out by the Minister of Environment and Water. To this end, the Act in force to the Minister shall establish a Supreme Water Advisory Council. The law regulates which ministries, practically everyone, delegate, send their representatives who carry out this advisory work. Here now, in order to implement the integration of water policies and industry policies replaced by ministers, we are creating this coordination council. Ladies and gentlemen, I dare say to you that we have worked for many years and that you have written the composition of this Council, and that you have copied the Composition of the Advisory Council, and besides that you say that the ministers are involved, and that their representatives can also participate, become the composition of the Advisory Council. And because he's so formally copied there, a very important minister has been missed here. The Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister have been missed, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has been missed. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has extremely important functions in implementing cross-border waters policies. Take and remember that Greece's condition for Bulgaria's membership in the European Union was the adoption of a certain range of amendments to the Water Act to regulate, and dare and to claim that it would change our Water Agreement for Places. These responsibilities have been replaced by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. And here experts know very well how the Agreement on the quantity of the average annual natural flow agreed between our two countries, they want to revise it with the requirements of a European Water Quality Control Directive and with the authority on this issue to revise the other Agreement, so if this coordination council remains, the Minister of Foreign Affairs with the functions that he has been replaced under the current law must be here. When a second Council of Ministers has been established to coordinate water policies, I cannot understand, honourable importers, why in such a large management scale have you done such meek and insignificant functions? Mr. Chakarov, you said these two paragraphs were nothing. So, you gather all the ministers to coordinate the policies that are scheduled, and fill them in with the development of river basin management plans and the funding of the programs under art. 156n, if you open it in the current law these are ten pages of funding for all water management activities, it's not worth it. So either we remove it as you suggest, or if it remains such a highly pretentious organ, it should, in my opinion, be loaded with another round of functions. It should really deal with proposals to the National Assembly for changing legislation, for real integration of policies for providing financial resources, responsibility for decision making and control in their implementation. If they're not listed these functions on the Coordination Council, there's no point in doing it! The second question is extremely important. Mr. Chakarov also touched him. I understand that the importer and the people who carried out his commission had to implement recommendations from the European Commission and requirements of a directive. When you have a first river basin management plan period and when the next management plans are made, I think there should be a review and review, but not a review. I don't know if it's a mistake of the word, but one thing is the spirit of the directive, another is the letter of the law. What do I mean and what do I suggest it be? There was a certain number of permits for a given resource. It's a cumulative effect. A new management plan is being made. Run a background check on the permits. Look at the load of the water site and regulate in the Law criteria and situations, order by which permits can be reviewed. Everything else, ladies and gentlemen, is an attempt by bureaucracy not to say the administration, to review out of control without asking the opinion of the person who has invested as a result of his permit, and if the water resource is at the heart of his activity, it is his business fate. And you've written texts on which official and administrative, because there's going to be a new planning period, you can review the permit, what will happen to its permit, with its investment in millions for power plants, for power plants, for bottling and so on? And no one thinks he's gonna rule forever! In politics, usually when you do something else, it comes back to you. [[Laughter and excitement in GERB.]] Some time ago, with the change of government, they wanted to record in the same Law that they would review all the permits. It didn't work. They're tens of thousands. There's no such capacity. And they're for 10 years, 15 years, for a variety of activities....waters, groundwater, drinking water and so on. I propose that the importers focus and that the word be that all permits are reviewed, the loading and cumulative effect is reviewed and only where there is a conflict of public interest with the permitted private interests has a criterion for review. Mr. Chakarov, that's my opinion on this. And one more, two more brief questions. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u136	Please don't enter into a conversation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u137	I understand that the Director of the Department of Waters has worked very hard under the Law. And because he has worked hard, he has changed his obligation to § 33, I say it jokely, to take responsibility for the coordination and control of the implementation of state policy on a pool level. This can't stay that way. It is the responsibility of the competent authority of the Minister. The text should therefore be that the Ministry of Environment and Water coordinates and controls the implementation of state policy on water at pool level. By its internal rules of procedure, it may delegate to the Directorate, the Deputy Minister. But let's not do this. And lastly...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u138	Mr. Bojinov, the time of the group is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u139	Let's extend it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u140	Please extend the time of BSP left Bulgaria. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u141	There's a question that's been standing for about ten years. Because he's so conflicted, no one's going to decide. And here you are working to transpose the directives. I suggest that we do not forget Directive 209/54 this time. This is the directive which regulates the requirements for bottling natural waters, mineral springs. It's a big conflict of interest. No one wants to transpose this directive and regulate it. The time has come, in my opinion, with this amendment to the Law to transpose this directive, to regulate the rules, to release the administration from the responsibility of accusing it of not realizing the principle of a single source of a concession.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u142	That has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u143	Because the President said there was no room and the Deputy Minister was justified by the Food Act, Mr. Chairman, I would like to tell you that this is the only Law that regulates the order and the way to allow water use. This is where he belongs. If you don't have the courage, it'll stay for the next one. I also missed him as chairman of the committee. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u144	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. - What's the line? I can't see. Is there another MP willing to take the floor? No. He has the floor of the Deputy Minister of Environment and you lead Mr. Pavel Gudjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u145	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I will try to be as brief and as specific as possible. On the speeches of the honourable Members. With regard to the transposition of the Water Framework Directive and specifically for the revision of permits for the use of water sites, I would say that this is a specific and literal transposition of the Water Framework Directive. The Law describes the situations in which these permits can be reviewed, revoked and updated. In the event of a dangerous increase or reduction of groundwater and surface water, a tendency to pollution or improvement of the condition of water objects may be both aggravating and easing. There is nothing wrong with stressing once again the scheme under which this will take place. Regarding the destruction of a part or element of a dam or dam, whether to be the district governors or mayors of the settlements we have exited from the idea of more operational work and that is why the mayor is appointed, but it is in the will of the National Assembly to determine the district governor as well. I don't think that's gonna make it that difficult. About the Water Coordination Council. Mr. Chakarov and Mr. Bojinov spoke on this subject. Mr. Bojinov compared it to the former Water Advisory Council. I would like to point out and stress that the two councils have absolutely nothing to do with this. The High Water Advisory Council includes scientific organizations, NGOs. It deals with ongoing and operational issues. The Water Coordination Council, which is composed mainly of ministers, quote: It ensures the coordination of activities related to financing and implementation of the programmes of measures under art. 156m, the measures to achieve the objectives of reducing the likelihood of the adverse effects of the floods. "The overall idea is this Water Coordination Council to integrate the sectoral policies of each office into water policy. His task is extremely responsible and I do not think he should be burdened with additional functions. Regarding what Mr. Genov mentioned about the General Directorate of Fire Safety and Protection of the Population, I would like to point out that this Law was drawn up in an extremely broad format and colleagues from the General Directorate of Fire Safety took part in its very creation. If any additions are required, I guess it's okay to do that. Regarding the State Agency "Meteorological and Technical Supervision" it was long discussed whether there is, whether there is no capacity, whether another organisation and office are more appropriate. No office has the capacity at the moment. Wherever this task is assigned, capacity will need to be built there. That is why the Law is accompanied by a financial justification and such capacity is intended to be built in the State Agency of Meteorological and Technical Supervision. What you mentioned about the review of the permits, that it is a recommendation, it is not a recommendation, it is directly recorded and literally transposed by the Water Framework Directive. In addition, I would say that the permits of large users of complex dams, which are irrigation systems and dams and stunts, are considered not every five or six years, are considered monthly. So far, there have been no case studies on either of them. Mr. Bojinov's comment on Directive 209/54. This directive has been transposed into the Bottling Ordinance, which is to the Food Act of the Ministry of Health and further transposition is a commitment of this office............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I'm available to answer any other questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u146	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. We're closing the debate. My fellow Members, I am voting at first reading on a bill amending and supplementing the Water Act, No 502-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 April 2015. Voting mode. 100 MPs voted: 88, none, abstention 12. With this, the Bill was adopted at first reading. Moving on to the next point of our weekly program: REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S ACTION TO TAKE OFF THE LOCALLY ACCOMPANYING IN 2014 An opinion has been received from the Committee on Legal Affairs. He will be introduced to us by the people's representative Mrs. Atanasova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u147	Thank you. Prior to that, I am making a procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber of Mr. Plamen Georgiev, President of the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u148	Voting regime for admission in the hall of Mr. Plamen Georgiev. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, invite Mr. Georgiev. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u149	♪ I can't believe on the activities of the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in 2014, No 520-00-18, submitted by the Commission for the revocation of illegally acquired property on 31 March 2015. At its meeting held on 22 April 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs examined the Commission's activity report on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in 2014. The meeting was attended by the members of the Commission for embezzlement of illegally acquired property: Mr. Plamen Georgiev, Chairman, Mr. Ivo Ivanov, Vice-President, Mrs. Stoyanka Nikolakova and Mrs. Antoaneta Tsonkova. The report on the Commission's activities on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in 2014, hereinafter referred to as the Commission, was presented by Mr. Plamen Georgiev. He noted that the purpose of the report was to present the organisation of the commission's work, the results achieved in its activities of establishment, security and the forfeiture of assets acquired from criminal and illegal activities, as well as the institutional and international cooperation carried out by it during the same period. In 2014, the Commission's numerical composition was 182 employees, the main reason why the statutory figures were not employed was the reduced financial resource. Since the beginning of the Commission's work, more than 55 000 000 BGN have been collected. In 2014, more than BGN 13 000 000 were collected, with the Commission's activities covering the completion of the outstanding checks and proceedings under the terms and under the repealed Law on withdrawal for the benefit of the state of property acquired from criminal activity, which envisaged that there would be a conviction, as well as the pending checks and proceedings under the current law. According to § 5 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the repealed Act in 2014, the Commission took 15 decisions on the formation of proceedings for the establishment of property acquired from criminal activity. In this respect, the Commission has also taken 19 decisions to submit reasoned requests for interim measures in respect of reports by the directors of the territorial directorates. The total value of the really secured property in 2014 amounted to BGN 2 856 142.42. The analysis of the criminal groups on which there is an attraction of the persons as accused and, respectively, the convicted verdicts, shows that as a basis for the submission of reasoned requests for precautionary measures, a total of 19 separate charges for crimes committed falling within the scope of art. 3 of the repealed law. The biggest share of crimes under art. 321 of the NK (organised criminal group) 354a of the NK (maintainment and distribution of narcotics) in 4 cases under art. 339 of the NK (acquiring, holding or transmitting other explosives, firearms, chemical, biological or nuclear weapons, ammunition for firearms or pyrotechnic articles, without due authorisation) in 4 cases. On the basis of reasoned conclusions of the directors of the territorial directorates, in 2014, the Commission took 20 decisions to submit reasoned requests for withdrawal in favour of the State of property acquired from criminal activity under the repealed Law. The civil cases formed are of a total value of 10 103 676,23 BGN. In 2014 28 court decisions on the forfeiture of property acquired from criminal activity totaling BGN 13 006 194,06 have entered into force. The Commission's territorial units received 2244 notifications of 2516 persons. All notifications have been received on the basis of art. 25 of the new Law on withdrawal in favour of the state of illegally acquired property by the respective monitoring prosecutors. 2292 inspections were initiated on the notifications received. The analysis of the crimes shows that with the largest proportion of 25 percent of the total number of notifications are drug-related crimes and their analogues (Art. 354a " 354c" by the NK); followed by the fraud (Art. Art. 209 211 of the NK) with 12 per cent; human trafficking under art. 159a by the NK "12 per cent," and the crimes under art. Art. 321, Art. 321a by the NK (formation, management and participation in an organized criminal group) - 11 per cent. During the reporting period the Commission has initiated 31 proceedings under art. 21, para. 1 of the new law. The Commission has adopted decisions to submit to the courts a claim for collateral for future claims for the forfeiture of assets of a total value of 14 million. 122,000. 636,97 leva. The analysis of the offences, the attraction of which is a prerequisite for the initiation of an inspection resulting from the proceedings and the precautionary measures imposed, shows that in 2014 with the highest share of the total number of cases, the crimes under art. 253 of the NK, the so-called money laundering, followed by the crimes of the service (Art. 282 of the NK) 19 per cent and avoiding establishment or payment of tax liabilities in large amounts (Art. 255 of the NK) -19 per cent. In 2014, the Commission adopted decisions to bring 23 claims for revocation in favour of the State of illegally acquired property, with the total value of the claims lodged in the courts being 25 million. 530,000. 502,39 leva. The Commission's aim is to provide electronic access to the database of most institutions in the country to achieve speed in processing the information flow in order to complete the checks more optimally than the statutory ones. Currently there is access to the database of: Customs Agency, National Database "Population", Central Register for special bets, "Pro-CreditBank" AD, National Revenue Agency and "Interpole". 57 checks have been carried out at the request of the Commission to establish movable and immovable property acquired from illegal activities abroad. 54 requests were received for verification of movable and immovable property of persons investigated by other countries. In the report of the European Commission on Bulgaria's progress under the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism, the assessment of the work of the Commission is high, making recommendations for reducing the size of the discrepancy between property and net income as a criterion for production, which is 250 thousand. leva. In the discussion of the report took part MPs and Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Petkov. Mr. Notev and Mr. Popov raised the question whether there is a comparable practice and what is the size of the discrepancy between property and net income as a criterion for the formation of production in other Member States of the European Union. In response Mr. Georgiev replied that in the UK the size of the discrepancy was 10 thousand. The pound and is of the opinion that the justified threshold of non-compliance according to the socio-economic conditions in the Republic of Bulgaria is 120 thousand. BGN for the verified period. He also suggested that the seized properties be used for social purposes, as the practice shows that they are very difficult to sell on public property taken from the commission by citizens with criminal past. Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Petkov said that an alternative form of verification of the degree of public danger should be found in order to limit the cases of verification to the Commission of acts which are minor. The chairman of the committee believes that legislative changes are needed in this direction and asked the MPs to get acquainted with the proposed legislative proposals in March and support them After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes for abstentions supported the submitted report on the Commission's activities for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in 2014, No 520/18, submitted on 31 March 2015, and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision on it with the following wording: ? RESPONSIBILITY? in relation to the Commission's activity report on the forfeiture of illegally acquired property in 2014. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 15, para. 1 of the Law on withdrawal in favour of the state of illegally acquired property, in relation to art. 87, para. 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts a report on the Commission's activities on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property for the year 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I give the floor to the President of the Commission for the revocation of illegally acquired property Mr. Plamen Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u151	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I proceed to my presentation, I would first like to thank the Committee on Legal Affairs for the professional attitude to our report, for the college discussion we had during the meeting, of course, and for the positive assessment we received for our work. To a large extent, the report of the Legal Commission sets out the very comprehensive basic facts of the Commission's activity report on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property for 2014, so I would not like to bore you with statistics, but I would like to point out to you some figures that illustrate the trend in our work. At the outset, I would like to emphasise that, despite the assessment that the figures on the activity carried out by the Commission are good, I always appeal not only to look at the real value of the property concerned, because the Commission is also a much more important body in terms of the prevention it carries out. Thanks to our activity, people know that if they do not declare the income they receive, one day they may be subject to scrutiny by the Commission and take away all their property if a non-compliance is found. So although there is no direct link between our activity and the declaration of the incomes of the persons to the authorities of the NRA, I think that from this point of view, the preventive function of the Commission is extremely important because there is another body that actually threatens any person who does not actually declare his income, for him to have adverse consequences, namely that his property be taken away. For any person who intends to commit a crime, there is also another deterrent, namely what he acquires from the crime, to be taken away from him. We realize that if there is such a perfect model that it is certain that the property will be taken from a specific crime, then much of the crimes would not be committed. From this point of view, it is also the tendency in the European Union that there is a single monitoring of property and that there may be a possibility that the property which is illegally acquired can be taken away. In my brief statement, I will try to summarize the data from the 2014 report and point out several figures that are indicative of the Commission's activities over the past year. By decision of the Commission, 19 claims were submitted in the accounting year for the imposition of precautionary measures under the Law on withdrawal for the benefit of the State of assets acquired from criminal activities worth 2 million. $800,000. lv. And 31 wants the new law. I assume you know that we are working on two laws and we are continuing to finish our work on the repealed Law on withdrawal for the benefit of the state of illegally acquired property and already under the new law in force, which provides for civil confiscation in the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the Commission's decision in 2014, 20 claims were submitted for the revocation of illegally acquired property of a total value of more than 10 million. lv. and 23 asks for more than 25 million by the order of the new law in force. lv. In 2014, 28 judgments in favour of the Commission for the withdrawal of property acquired from criminal activities of a total value of more than 13 million entered into force. lv. In comparison, the value of the withdrawal in 2013 was also 13 million. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. In total, over the period from 2009 to 2014, i.e. during the entire period during which the Commission existed, a little more than 55 million were taken away. BGN, and over the last two years, as it became clear, we have taken more than 26 million, that is, nearly half of the result achieved by the Commission all the time of its existence. That is why I think and say that the results of the Commission are good. However, we do realize that these are really stolen hotels, apartments, cars of individuals who have committed crimes. Those are the facts. I will allow myself to note that the results have been assessed positively by the European Commission. In the latest report on Bulgaria's progress on the co-operation and evaluation mechanism, I will quote verbatim: "This committee is referring to our Commission - it continues to achieve significant results despite the burdening regulatory framework. A clarification has been made in the technical report of the European Commission. According to the information provided by the Commission, the Authority has the necessary powers and resources to conduct full and thorough investigations into financial flows, as well as in cooperation with foreign authorities, so the institutional structure and capacity seem appropriate. The final results are hindered by the obstacles arising from the new legal provisions, the new Law on withdrawal, of course, in favour of the State of illegally acquired property adopted at the end of 2012. In particular, I should refer again to the European Commission report's quote, the 250 thousand threshold. BGN, which looks high against the background of the conditions in Bulgaria, and the task is further difficult by the load of the Company with the burden of proof. Here I would like to deviate a little from the specific nature of the Commission's specific report for 2014, to inform you that, after more than two years after the entry into force of the new Law on withdrawal for the benefit of the State of illegally acquired property, specific problems have emerged with regard to the application of this Law. As a result of a serious analysis and review of the accumulated expertise, we have prepared proposals to amend and supplement the Law on withdrawal for the benefit of the state of illegally acquired property. They are in line with the strategic guidelines for preventing and combating corruption in the period 2015-2020, which were adopted by the government and are also in line with Directive 2014/42 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the freezing and confiscation of funds and proceeds of criminal activity in the European Union. First of all, however, they aim to strengthen the effectiveness of our work. I will briefly mark the proposals: reducing the level of discrepancy between the assets and the net income of the persons examined from 250 to 120 thousand. BGN, a clarification of the compositions of the Criminal Code, on which the Commission should carry out checks, a retroactive burden of proof in some cases, an opportunity to take out explanations and verification during the checks in view that this possibility was removed by the new law and had it in the old one. I will also focus your attention on one very important proposal, which is implemented very hard and at European level, namely that part of the seized property be provided for the benefit of the state in relation to various social needs. We offer no less than 20% to be able to really see the effectiveness of our activities, to see the citizens that the state is strong, that it takes property from criminals and to say: here, this property, this hotel, this house is taken away by criminals and there is a kindergarten in it, there is a community center, in it is housed the municipality. This is extremely important because, as I told you, we are far from the idea that we can fill the budget. That's not gonna happen in any country. However, our activity must be visible so that citizens can truly see that the state is strong and has the power to deal largely with the withdrawal of illegally acquired property when the Commission receives such a signal. I will not focus on many agreements. Indeed, I can, however immodest it may sound, say that the Commission currently has the broadest database and the broadest access to all institutions. Each inspector has an electronic signature and with only 2-3 pushes on the button has access to the base of population, of customs, of tax authorities, even now and of private banks, which is really a small breakthrough that we managed to make so that things can really happen in our work and quickly. You know that sometimes the timely imposition of restraint is extremely important in order to ultimately have something to take away. This concludes my statement on the Commission report on illegally acquired property in 2014. If there are any questions, I am, of course, ready to answer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u152	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We're going into voting mode. I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs. Mrs. Atanasova, you have already read the draft decision, but until the MPs are gathered, let's read it from the National Assembly's stand: ? RESPONSIBILITY? in relation to the Commission's activity report on the forfeiture of illegally acquired property in 2014. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 15, para. 1 of the Law on withdrawal in favour of the state of illegally acquired property, in relation to art. 87, para. 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report on the Commission's activities on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property for 2014 We vote, fellow Members. Vote 77 MPs: 72 against 3, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, yesterday was adopted at first reading the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, No 502-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 March 2015. On the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of our Rules, I ask you to support a proposal to extend the deadline by a total of three days to become a total of 10, as holidays are coming and I am worried that we will not be able to make our proposals. I therefore ask you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u154	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made, although according to our Rules, Mr. Atanasov, the holidays do not enter into... Don't let it turn out that after that it'll go too far in time and we'll cut it short because they're in a hurry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u155	No, no, we've done the math.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u156	You've calculated everything? Okay. They voted 83 MPs: 81 against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S ACTION ON THE DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND THE STATEMENT OF THE PRIVACY OF BULGARIAN CIVILITY TO STATE SECURITY AND THE DECEMBER 20, 2014 Importer is the Commission for disclosure of documents and declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The report shall only be allocated to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order from which an opinion has been received. Mr. Atanasov, please offer us the opinion of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u157	Madam President, first of all, I ask for a procedure to allow the President of the Commission in the House of Evtim Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u158	Voting regime, fellow Members. Vote 80 MPs: 74 against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Invite Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u159	"Stanovishte" on a Report on the activities of the Commission on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 July 2014. 20 December 2014, No 420-00-26, submitted by the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army on 16.12.2014. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order at its meeting held on 11 March 2015 examined the Report on the Commission's activities on disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 July 2014. - December 20th. - December 20th. 2014 No 420-00-26, submitted by the same Commission on 16 December 2014. The Commission for the Disclosure of Documents and the Announcement of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to the State Security and Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army attended the meeting attended Evtim Kostadinov President; Airush Hadji Vice-President, and Mariana Ivanova Darkchieva Secretary. Evtim Kostadinov briefly presented the Commission's activities in that reporting period. The report reflects data on the creation of a central archive of State Security documents and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The activities to ensure access to documents, research and international activities of the Commission are presented. Information on court cases and upcoming tasks has been provided. In his exhibition Evtim Kostadinov stressed that the Commission, following the provisions of the Law, for the reporting period, carried out an inspection of 8355 Bulgarian citizens and declared belonging to 553 persons. For the period 1 July 2014 The Commission has discussed and adopted 71 decisions on 30 November 2014. As a result of the debates held, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee supported with 12 votes for the Council, with no votes against the Council, and 4 votes abstentioned the Commission's report on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 July 2014. 20 December 2014, No 420-00-26, submitted by the Commission for disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army on 16 December 2014 and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision on it with the following wording: ? RESPONSIBILITY? adopting a Report on the Commission's activities on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 July 2014 "20 December 2014' The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 17 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 4, para. 6 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army and art. 87, para. 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the Commission's activities on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 July 2014. " 20 December 2014" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u160	Thank you, too. On behalf of Mr. Kostadinov, will you take an attitude? No. The debate is open, colleagues. Are there any MPs who would like to take part in the matter? I won't. [[Reply from the National Representative Velizar Enchev.]] Mr. Enchev, come in. [[Noise and lines. A line from the National Representative Velizar Enchev.]] Colleagues, I ask for the order needed in this House so that we can hear the speaker. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u161	Madam President, honourable Members. On page 1, page 1, 5 in the presented document "Scanning and copying of documents" it is said that 603 cases or 48 925 sheets were scanned upon request of citizens, copied documents in paper form are 22 463 sheets. On this occasion, I take this passage from the Commission Report on the disclosure of the documents of the former secret services, I would like to inform you that on 21 April 2015 I submitted to the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office the following signal that you should hear. I'm going to show you in a minute, too bad I didn't bring them, but I'll be back to get the papers. I hold in my hand a signal in which I state the following, proven by documents. During my contacts with the Commission, I received paper-based freshmen, as the Report says, each of you can freely receive, dozens of ciphers from our residents in neighbouring countries, mostly in the period 1988. 15 July 1991. As you can see, I prove to the prosecutor of Sofia with documents, ciphers sent by diplomatic mail and documents deleted by the Commission of Mr. Kostadinov with marker texts, they screen the names of our secret collaborators in neighbouring countries of Bulgaria. These names are read by anyone who wishes, I can show them to them, because I have no right here on the stand to show these documents under the marker with which the Commission has worked on the files read the names of all our collaborators, to say it directly, in Yugoslavia, Greece, Albania, in Yugoslavia I mean Serbia and Macedonia. Since the Law does not allow the names of foreign citizens from the so-called Committee on Records, they believe that there is sufficient evidence of a crime committed and I would like to hear here from the stands, Mr. Evtim Kostadinov. I also insist that, pending the suspension of this practice, the Committee on Files, in particular, the Committee on Records, should temporarily cease to provide these documents to citizens of both foreign citizens and to embassies of foreign countries, as, I quote, p. 5, anyone can request a paper scan. I stress that the preview of the names is only visible when receiving paper, not on disk, CD or DVD. This is the first crime, I do not say a violation of the Commission on Files, and I hope that Mr. Kostadinov will take the attitude.... if not here, at least in front of Sofia's city attorney. The second offense, which I would not say is a crime, but there are criminal consequences, is that the Commission does not fulfil its obligation to notify the persons concerned in advance before the announcement of their names in the media, which is why, if you remember, when the Minister of Defence was here, Mr. Shalamanov, I asked this question. You know how the former Deputy Chief of Staff General General ended tragically. Nenko Nenov, now deceased, who suffered a severe stroke hours after the Bureau of Records announced his name without prior notification. On this issue Minister Shalamanov of this tribune during the caretaker government, I quote, said that he deeply respects Mr Nenov and feels personal responsibility for what happened because he has voted a great deal of confidence and is a worthy Bulgarian officer. I am not saying that he died as a result of the announcement of his name without knowing it previously, but the fact is that the Commission violated this requirement and should be held responsible, and why not penal, for the death of this worthy Bulgarian general. One more example. Admiral Petev, currently acting Admiral, during a combat exercise with a ship abroad, has also learned from the media, and not as should be notified by the Commission. Dear colleagues, I think that Mr. Kostadinov should explain all these issues. The last question I would like to address. On page 1, page 1, 10 of Mr. Kostadinov's report says that the Commission has problems, and I quote:....................................................... can't meet the requirement under art. 3, para. 1, t. 16 of the Law, due to the failure to present the lists by the Ministry of Defence. Mr. Kostadinov, I believe that the two services are not giving you the documents. I fully support their conduct, as the Law prohibits the export of documents with the names of foreign nationals, which you so lightly, of course, due to carelessness, I exclude intent, you provide for use in the Committee on Files. I'm referring to the fact that I gave out names of people who read under the marker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u162	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Enchev, I do not want to enter into any special dialogue, but it is still good to say from the stand that you are addicted to the topic for the simple reason that you have been declared a state official of the First General Administration. Isn't that right? It's an important circumstance to know. [[Heckling]] However, I would like to touch on just one detail of your speech, from which I am confused. You stated that in grammes, which were sent by diplomatic mail in the appropriate order, the names of collaborators of the Bulgarian services were indicated. This, Mr. Enchev, is in violation of any rules for secret work, if it is true, because you know that when communicating with a source that is officially registered, it should be under an alias. If you wrote in the gram the names of your associates, you were for disciplinary dismissal right then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u164	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u165	Thank you, Madam President. My reply to Mr. Enchev is that he incorrectly named the archive of Military Intelligence. It is about an archive of State Security of the so-called Archive of the Bulgarian People's Army. It is very important to understand in this House that this was at least incorrect. Within the line I use the opportunity, as I assume that Mr. Kostadinov will then take the attitude, and I ask him to explain the procedure under art. 32 of the Law, which provides for the possibility for a security service to request data on a person who is an established belonging to State Security, not to be declared when this could endanger the interests of the Republic of Bulgaria or the life of the person concerned. Please also explain to Mr. Kostadinov how these archive units are stored by the Commission that there is a separate archive with limited access. Please, when it comes to explaining this to the House, so that it is not speculated on this subject and it is clear that Mr. Enchev is absolutely inaccurately saying that military intelligence files will be handed over to the Committee on Records for Announcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u166	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u167	Madam President, colleagues! Mr. Atanasov, a few days ago I showed you these ciphers myself. Of course, it's not about agents, it's about individuals who were sources of information...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u168	Then why are you leading us on?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u169	...but then they became very high status operatives and agents. This is, of course, a mistake not only for the Committee on Files, but also for the relevant intelligence service, the civilian or military who provided these documents without taking measures in advance to delete or restrict the information submitted. That's how I answer your question. Here, I've got them in my hands. [[shows documents]] Any one of you who wishes can see. Just one small, very small part, one hundredth maybe of these materials that I own, but this should be multiplied by one hundred or two hundred, since access in the reading room, honourable colleagues, is completely free. We are talking about the revealed documents of the Middle East relics, in the former Soviet republics, and, of course, first of all, in the Balkans. Here, however, I use the occasion in the remaining minutes until the end of my duplicate to say that this Law on the Commission of Records so-called was adopted, and the responsibility falls entirely to three political forces, at least to the point of the GERB party at the moment: the Bulgarian Socialist Party, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and the Blue Coalition, which seven years ago adopted this Law, without taking into account all these very, very important moments, so that in some respects, if Mr. Kostadinov's Commission has committed violations, to a large extent, not entirely, of course, they are due to the vicious Law which does not need to be abolished, in any case, but to a serious revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u170	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to take part? I see Mr. Kostadinov wants the floor. You got it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u171	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! However, I thank you for the question that has been put forward, and I think it is appropriate that we also express our opinion on these issues, which have been published in the media space over the last ten days. In short, I shared in a media report that the Law has been implemented as it is by the administration and members of the Commission. What's this about? It is true that these telegrams, which Mr. Enchev received in accordance with the legal order in the Commission, are in the form which the Law enjoins. However, I would like to stress here that this is not about any secret associate, agent, operational link Mr. Enchev is talking about. Everything which is mentioned in these telegrams is neither protected by the relevant service....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... With the possibility of applying art. 32 Under the Law, the Commission in its full right and enforcement of the Law has fulfilled Mr. Enchev's request to touch these archive documents, to get acquainted with them and has the right to receive copies. In these telegrams, it's not about, I repeat, a state-of-the-art, classified associate, agent, and so on. I would like to point out something else that I don't know why Mr. Enchev is running in the public domain, apparently he doesn't give the meaning of these words to an agent, a secret collaborator, an operational link, an official connection. This document, which Mr. Enchev shows, which he received in due order, refers to a person who is an official link and also to the second document, which is an official link. Within the meaning of the Law and the Instruction of Agent-Operation, this means absolutely nothing within the meaning of agents and associates. These are official contacts, as is the relevant need for an operative or an official to work, signal or report to the management. It is appropriate to indicate that in these telegrams, especially when it comes to agents, secret collaborators, residents, respectively, are handled either by the appropriate code, cipher, order, number or alias, so it is speculated with the information provided in the proper order. However, I thank Mr. Enchev that he said something that is true in just one word that this reading room works, and it was within the meaning of the Law that was its meaning which, here in this Chamber, the 40th National Assembly adopted, namely why should this Law be adopted if there is no access to the disclosure of these documents. This was the main purpose of the Law. I would like to stress one more thing that there is speculation here and there is talk of almost a resident, an agent, a collaborator. Only one document, which is extremely clear and is also to be said by the personal and working work of Mr. Enchev, which is an assessment of his work by his respective superiors from 1 January 1987 to 30 June 1990: What agency, what residence Mr. Enchev is talking about, that we've actually exposed the agents to him. [[Noise, excitement and lines.]] Also for those individuals, for whom one way or another our...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u172	Colleagues, I'm asking for patience in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u173	They have done quite correctly because it is a question, Mr. Enchev, of third parties, namely the employees have tried in some way to meet this requirement of the Law, although these persons within the meaning of the Law are, I would say official people. Journalists who are known not only here, to you, but have already become known in the public space through you. This was a development of Mr. Enchev for this reporting period and a case for an operational examination for this period of two and a half years. This is the active activity for the period for which the Commission has the right to disclose these documents to Mr. Enchev. One more thing to share. We have been accused of our work here that we do not notify in advance the persons for whom belonging will be established, and for the purposes of implementing the law we have the right and we do the registration proceedings. That is why the legislator mentioned all public positions in art. 3, para. 1 and 2 and those who take the path of public activity or public office, trying to occupy them, it becomes very clear that the Commission is imperative to carry out the relevant verification, to establish ownership solely by document and to present them in the public domain. And the public space is precisely the electronic media, the Commission's website and the 6-month newsletter which is legally required to issue. I believe that the law is respected precisely and in principle, and this, so to speak, is an accusation against the administration and the members of the Commission, personally, I cannot accept. The Commission requires it because it's legally introduced. Several times I regret that here, on this stand, I share that it cannot comply with the Law because under art. 3, para. 1, t. 16 Checks are required for all employees who have held positions from head of the sector and department to director of the relevant administrations. All administrations in the country have passed the inspection, but so far these lists from the National Intelligence Service and the Military Information Service have not been sent to carry out the relevant inspection. Respectfully, the question of the DANS is raised. The DANS sent the relevant lists, the verification has been carried out, and I personally believe that this is a worthy example, you see that the DANS continues to work and there were no shocks either on the part of the establishment and announcement or on the part of additional illumination of their staff. I've written a few more things down here, but don't let me repeat myself. Thank you for your attention. If there are any questions, I am ready to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u174	For a statement? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u175	Madam President, honourable Members! I did not intend to speak because we are voting on a report which reports some activity that has been carried out if it were not for Mr. Kostadinov's last two sentences about the dignified behaviour of the SANS and the failure to comply with the law of the National Intelligence Service and the Military Information Service, and the speculation that is trying to make in the division that some are worthy and others, hardly, are criminals by law. Mr. Kostadinov, I just want to tell you that if you're not familiar with and only dealt with internal security, there is a huge difference between foreign intelligence services, if I may say so, and those who work for national security within the state. There is no way to ask information about people who may be working undercover at the moment and when this information comes out, they will be put at risk not only them, but also our country, as you know that this is the very sensitive subject of exposure, of lighting, if you want to use the more professional term, and around them to put at risk all those with whom they have maintained contacts and connections, regardless of whether they are attracted to collaborators and agents subsequently. Because they're gonna get arrested first, and then they're gonna check them out. So don't speculate on this thing. Rather, do as you usually do from time to time, for some things to close your eyes instead of trying to insinuate. Because this is also from the Commission's practice not always, not always and not everyone to disclose, but only at certain times. For this reason, once again, I say to you that I have taken the floor to protect the honour of the National Intelligence Service and of the Military Information Service, which at present even at the risk of breaking some point of the law, protect their people, protect their associates and all those who are currently serving the state, who are currently abroad and who may currently be one of the few barriers to terrorism, including on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u176	- What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u177	Line!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u178	Mr. Andreev is irresistible. Come on in, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u179	As a matter of fact, I wasn't gonna make a line, but I've had too many cops speaking out of this tribune. However, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria and we must tell each other the truth. I do not agree with the last statement to suggest that it is almost the National Intelligence Service and Military Information. Let us not forget that Mr. Evtim Kostadinov's Commission is also a Commission that has access to the highest degree of classification of classified information. It has a security clearance, and there will be nothing out there that would undermine the state's interest. Furthermore, God forbid if Mr. Enchev and Mr. Ermenkov's colleagues from their time are currently defending the interests of Bulgaria abroad. That is why the foreign trade accounts disappeared, and the foreign trade companies disappeared, for this reason that such people keep the Bulgarian interest abroad. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u180	Second line to Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u181	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u182	Let's run out of lines. Is there a second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u183	I don't know what you can duplicate on the illiterate! It's very difficult for me...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u184	Let's stick to normal vocabulary in the gym, without personal qualifications that are offensive.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u185	This, Madam President, is a general summary. I didn't say Mr. Andreev was illiterate. I said I don't know if there's an illiterate, how can you duplicate it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u186	There are no illiterates here!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u187	For that reason, perhaps I'll do the dodger anyway, so it doesn't turn out that I insulted him personally. See what, when it really is about something called National Security, to speculate with foreign trade companies, to which the Office of Foreign Affairs has absolutely nothing in common...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u188	Well, come on!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u189	Absolutely nothing to do with it, you can check it out, Mr. Andreev, don't argue! You were the chairman of this Commission. When it comes to juggling words in order to protect some personal theses and insults perhaps from time to time, I think it is unworthy behavior. Once again I say, I am glad and congratulate the National Intelligence Service and the Military Information Service, and the colleagues who have worked, work and now that they serve the Republic of Bulgaria and protect its interests, even at the risk of some time breaking the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u190	Personal explanation of Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u191	Mr. Andreev, thank you for mentioning my name so I can get a personal explanation. Here, I'm showing you as a counterargument of Evtim Kostadinov [[shows two sheets with partially blackened rows]] If this is not a secret, why has the Commission drawn this with a black marker?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u192	Because he's a third person.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u193	No! No, no, no! Mr. Kostadinov's second lie, two operational connections, they're almost agents. Mr. Kostadinov lied right now and thank you for giving me the opportunity to answer that question. Mr. Evtim Kostadinov is a liar and he lied...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u194	Mr. Enchev, please, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u195	Two operational connections can be seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-30.u196	And I address you without personal qualifications! Anyone else who wants to make a statement? I won't. The debate is closed. I vote on the draft decision on the Commission report, which was kindly proposed by Mr. Atanasov. They voted 86 MPs: 72, against 4, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Since it is 14:00 p.m. and we should put an end to the plenary week, the next regular plenary session is on 7 May 2015, Thursday, at 9.00 p.m. I remind the parliamentary groups that, according to our Rules, they may make proposals for inclusion on the agenda for the next plenary week by 18:00 on Tuesday, 5 May 2015. Happy holidays! On 7 May 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/994 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions I'm shutting down the plenary day.
