ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Allow me to present to you the draft work programme of the National Assembly on 7 and 8 May 2015: "1." First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importers: Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova, April 9, 2015 2. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Road Traffic Act "General project, drawn up on the basis of the laws adopted in the first vote on 8 April 2015 with importers: Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs, 12 March 2015; Pavel Hristov, Plamen Manushev and Tsvetomir Mihov, 20 March 2015. 3. Draft Decision on the designation of the Committee for the Auditing of the Court of Auditors' Annual Financial Statements 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014. Importer: Diana Yordanova, 28 April 2015 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the word organization of veterinarians in Bulgaria. Importers: Maria Belova and Valentin Vassilev, 21 April 2015 5. Report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2014. Importer: Council of Ministers, 30 March 2015 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Medical Devices Act. Importer: Council of Ministers, 30 January 2015. Adopted at first vote on 18 March 2015. 7. First vote on the Bill for Supplement to the State Property Act. Importer: Council of Ministers, 30 January 2015 8. Project Declaration on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the surrender of Nazi Germany in World War II and on the occasion of Europe Day. Importer: Foreign Policy Committee, 30 April 2015 Point 1 for Friday, 8 May 2015 9. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly.. point 2 for Friday, 8 May 2015................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The programme was discussed at the Conference of Presidents and unanimously adopted. We have no proposals from the parliamentary groups under para. 3. Statements? I won't. Please vote on your proposals Project for the National Assembly Work Programme this week, in particular for 7 and 8 May 2015. They voted 134 MPs: 113, none against, abstention 21. Our work program has been accepted. A few messages before we move on to agenda work. Draft and draft resolutions from 29 April 2015 to 5 May 2015: Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Information Access Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. Host: Commission on interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Distributed to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act. Importers: Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. Host: Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft amending and supplementing the Railway Transport Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. Host: Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Distributed to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education. Importers: Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. Host: The Committee on Education and Science. A bill to amend and supplement the Health Act. Importers: Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Host: Committee on Health. Project for a declaration to mark the Day of Victory over Hitlerism in World War II. Importers: Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Host: Foreign Policy Committee. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals. Importers: Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. Host: Budget and Finance Committee. Distributed to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. A bill to supplement the Social Security Code. Importers: Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. Host: Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. Distributed to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Project for a decision to award the Court of Auditors to carry out a comprehensive audit of the actions of the State Agency for Child Protection with regard to the spending of funds for: preparation of a technical assignment under the project "Childhood for All" - the conduct of trainings and concluded civil contracts under the OPAC projects and the study of the implementation of the Action Plan for Deinstitutionalization for the period 2009 - 2015. Importers: Sultanka Petrova and a group of MPs. Host: Budget and Finance Committee. Distributed to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Project for a declaration of recognition and condemnation of the extermination of the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire in the period 1396. ? 1878 and 1903 ? 1922 Importer: Valeri Simeonov and group of MPs. It has been assigned to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Annual Report of the Bulgarian National Bank for 2014. Importer: Bulgarian National Bank. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Interior of Hungary, the Government of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Justice and Public Security of Norway, the Swedish Migration Board, the Swedish Ministry of Justice and the International Migration Policy Development Centre on the implementation of the project. Importer: Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Foreign Policy. A bill for ratification of the Annex amending the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation and Support with regard to the Secretariat of the South East European Police Cooperation Convention signed on 12 October 2012 in Matrahaza, Hungary. Importer: Council of Ministers. Host: the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, accompanying: the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Family Aid Act for Children. Importer: Council of Ministers. Host: the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, accompanying: the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Education and Science. A draft declaration on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the victory over Hitlerophasism. Importer is the People's Representative Velizar Enchev. The project will be reviewed in the Committee on Foreign Policy. I'll read you a few more messages. On 29 April 2015, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2015 to 25 January 2020 (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). No 520-00-25, the National Assembly received a letter from the President of the Commission for Protection of Competition, together with its attached Decision No 353 of 22 April 2015 of the Commission expressing an opinion on compliance with the rules of competition of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legal Protection, No 554-01-14, submitted on 23 January 2015 by a group of Members of the National Assembly. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 30 April 2015, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2015 to 25 January 2020 (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). No 539-00-36, the National Assembly received a Report of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the implementation of its functions under the Law for the period 25 March 2015. "25 April 2015 and Protocol No 15 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 30 April 2015 the National Statistical Institute received information about a general index of producer prices in industry and indexes at domestic producer prices for March 2015. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. And one last message. On 5 May 2015 the National Assembly was granted the opinion of the Economic and Social Council on its own initiative and adopted by the Economic and Social Council "Restriction and prevention of the informal economy in Bulgaria as an opportunity for stimulating growth and employment." The material is provided to the permanent committees whose portfolios are listed in the opinion and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We're moving on to work on the newly adopted first-point program: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON THE ADDED AFFECTION, Ic. No 554-01-76. People's representatives Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova are importing on 9 April 2015. With the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Mrs. Menda Stoyanova will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u2	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Amending and Supplemental Bill of the Value Added Tax Act, No 554-01-76 tabled by the Members of the National Assembly Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova on 9 April 2015 At a meeting held on 29 April 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. The meeting was attended by: Lyudmila Petkova, Director of the Ministry of Finance, Iskra Gerbelova, Head of the Department of the same Directorate, Rosen Ivanov, Director of the Directorate of the National Revenue Agency, Mina Yankova, Chief Expert in the same Directorate, and Yana Georgieva, Director of the Directorate General of the Operational Programme of the Environment at the Ministry of Environment and Water. The bill was presented by the MP Diana Yordanova. The bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act has been drawn up in relation to the suspended funding from the Operational Programme "Environment" 2007 " 2013" of expenditure incurred by municipalities for value added tax in the implementation of water projects under Priority Axis 1 of the Programme. The suspension of funding is a result of a letter from the European Commission that the costs incurred by municipalities for VAT on water projects are ineligible for financing with the funds of the European Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund, as at the end stage of the operation of the built water infrastructure are generated revenue taxable with VAT. The Law allows municipalities that are owners of the water infrastructure, built in implementation of the projects financed under the Priority Axis of the OPS, to exercise their right to a tax credit for VAT on supplies received after 1 January 2007. According to the provision of art. 72, para. 1 of the VAT Act, any registered person may exercise his right to a tax credit for the tax period during which that right arose or in one of the following 12 tax periods. The period for exercising the right to tax credit under the general law on the costs incurred by municipalities after 1 January 2007 on water projects has expired, which provides for new deadlines and procedures for the exercise of the right to tax credit, respectively for the reimbursement of VAT to municipalities. For supplies received from municipalities in implementation of projects financed under Priority Axis 1 of the OPS, for which the 12 month period of legal in VAT has not expired, municipalities should apply the general provisions of the VAT. The reimbursement of VAT to municipalities over a seven-year period will have an effect on budget revenues of 150 million. BGN, which is why a phased exercise of the right to tax credit has been proposed over two financial years................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is proposed that the refund tax established by the revenue administration be reimbursed to the municipalities by direct transfer to a bank account indicated by the Ministry of Environment and Water, up to the amount of the funds to be recovered from the municipalities paid by the OCS to finance VAT charged for supplies of goods and/or services received from them. The tax to be recovered under this order will not be subject to a deduction against other outstanding public liabilities of the municipalities collected by the NRA. In the case of a remainder of the refund tax above the amount of the funds to be recovered from the municipalities paid by the OPS, the remainder will be reimbursed to the municipalities after its detention with other outstanding public liabilities of the municipalities collected by the NRA. The bill explicitly states that when no contract under the Water Act or any other contract was concluded by 31 December 2015 for the provision of compensation by the municipality to the Water Operator of the projects financed under Priority Axis 1 of OPOS for management, maintenance and operation, there are no supplies within the meaning of the Law on Value Added Tax between the Municipality and the Water Operator. This text provides for the exercise of the right to tax credit for the costs incurred by municipalities by 31 December 2015 in implementing water projects not to be limited. With effect from 1 January 2016, even if there is no compensation for the management, maintenance and operation of the water infrastructure by the municipality of the water operator, there will be supplies between them. The form of the tax base of these supplies is set out in the Bill, stating that for a tax for which a tax right to a tax credit has been exercised under the Law, the provisions for adjustments from the VAT Act do not apply. The Law also provides for claims between municipalities and the Ministry of Environment and Waters relating to inaccuracies in the amounts provided by the Ministry as information to the NRA to be settled between them in general order. The treatment of pending tax proceedings is also regulated. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held in which representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Environment and Water expressed their views on the support of the Bill. After the discussion of the bill, a vote was held with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, No 554-01-76, submitted by the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova on 9 April 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. With the report from the Committee on Environment and Water, Mrs. Cornelia Marinova will introduce us. You have the floor, Mrs. Marinova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on the Environment and Water on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 554-01-76, submitted by Menda Kirilova Stoyanova and Diana Ivanova Yordanova on 9 April 2015. At its regular meeting on 23 April 2015, the Committee on Environment and Water examined at first reading the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Value Added Tax Act, No 554-01-76, submitted by Menda Kirilova Stoyanova and Diana Ivanova Yordanova on 9 April 2015. The Ministry of Environment and Waters attended the meeting: Mr. Pavel Gudzherov Deputy Minister, and Mrs. Yana Georgieva Director of the Operational Programme "Environment" Directorate, from the Ministry of Finance: Mrs. Iskra Gurbelova Head of the Department of Tax Policy and from the National Revenue Agency: Mr. Rosen Ivanov. On behalf of the importer, the Draft Law and the reasons for its submission were presented by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, who pointed out that the Draft Law was drawn up in connection with the suspension of funding from the Operational Programme "Environment" (2007-2013) of expenses incurred by municipalities for value added tax. According to the opinion of the European Commission, the costs incurred by municipalities for VAT on water projects are ineligible for funding with the funds of the European Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund, as at the end stage of the operation of the built-in water infrastructure, income tax-taxed by VAT is generated. With regard to the VAT Directive, the effective recovery of VAT is based on the legal framework established by the Member States. As a result of the adopted amendments to the Water Act, the activities of municipalities as owners of the infrastructure when providing for the management, maintenance and operation of the same infrastructure to water operators through contracts concluded under the same Law are treated as taxable under the VAT Act. This gives municipalities the right to exercise the right to tax credit for the costs incurred when building the infrastructure. The changes offer a transitional regime allowing municipalities to exercise the right to tax credit for VAT charged on supplies received after 1 January 2007, i.e. prior to the amendments adopted to the Water Act. The reimbursement of the VAT to municipalities for a seven-year period will have an effect on the budget revenues, which is why a gradual exercise of the right to tax credit has been proposed in the course of two financial years 2015 and 2016. With the transitional rule, it is proposed that the tax established by the revenue administration be reimbursed to the municipalities by direct translation to the amount of the funds to be recovered from the municipalities and that the tax to be recovered under this order will not be subject to a deduction against other outstanding public obligations of the municipalities. The draft explicitly states that where no contract under the Water Act has been concluded by 31 December 2015 or any other contract for the compensation granted by the municipality to the water operator of the built water infrastructure, there are no supplies within the meaning of the VAT Act between the municipality and the water operator governing the right to a tax credit for the costs incurred by the municipalities until 31 December 2015. With effect from 1 January 2016, even if there is no compensation for the management, maintenance and operation of the water infrastructure by the municipality of the water operator, there will be supplies between them. In the absence of a contract, the formation of the tax base of these supplies is set out in an explicit manner set out in the Bill. It is also regulated that for a tax for which a tax credit is exercised under the Bill, the provisions for adjustments from the VAT Act will not apply. It is envisaged that the claims between municipalities and the Ministry of Environment and Waters relating to inaccuracies in the amounts to be settled between them in general order. Attitudes on the submitted bill took the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov, Manol Genov, Borislav Velikov, Boris Yachev and Willi Lilkov, received answers from Mrs. Menda Stoyanova and Mrs. Yana Georgieva. Following the end of the debates and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Water unanimously, with 19 votes in favour, without the opposition and the abstention, supported the draft and expressed the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 554-01-76, submitted by Menda Kirilova Stoyanova and Diana Ivanova Yordanova on 9 April 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Marinova. There is no report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. On behalf of the importers, will anyone take a stand? No. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Once again, a bill is introduced, which, in general, we can define as exceptional, special, with retroactive effect, which is wrong even if tax acts come into force. My fellow Members, is this admissible in terms of the principles of the Constitution, in terms of the rule of law?! What are we saying with this bill? Since certain cases and problems have been accumulated in the implementation of the Operational Programme "Environment" for years, mainly during the management of GERB, we are now by law trying to solve cases that should have been solved by both the Ministry of Finance and other institutions in the course of the implementation of the projects. Please, we can't use a bill to solve separate cases! We are not opposed to municipalities having a clear financial framework in the implementation of the projects. However, with the opposite date, we cannot resolve, including hypotheses of effective tax acts, consider them null and void, and now by law to settle already completed tax cases. Therefore, please very much, let us take a look at this Bill once again. In my opinion, as it is, we cannot support it in any way our colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria. I'll give you one more argument. We agreed on a budget, but with the adoption of the budget, the respective tax laws should be adopted!? Now what do we do? Are we revising the budget for this year and giving another 120 million or as much as they are from the spending part of the municipal budget? By adopting the Law on Value Added Tax in December, we should have foreseen relevant cases. This should have entered the common budgetary framework. Now with a light hand at the initiative of some of our colleagues, let's rearrange everything?! Well, you can't! These are legal norms and they must have a lasting regulatory character. We can't do this by law. Understand that. This is contrary to the principles of the Constitution, contrary to the idea of legal order at all. Therefore, I propose that this bill be not supported by the MPs and, if necessary, colleagues who want to introduce some regulation that must act primarily in the future may also solve controversial pending cases so far, but have a lasting regulatory character. Let them re-submit the relevant legal amendments and additions so that they comply with the principles of our Constitution. In this way, this bill cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u7	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 554-01-76, tabled by the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova on 9 April 2015. Dear colleagues, please vote. Vote 127 MPs: 109, against 1, abstention 17. The bill was passed in the first vote. The next item is: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MOVEMENT OF THE ROADS. This is a new Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, drawn up on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, on the basis of the bill adopted in the first vote amending and supplementing the Law on Road Traffic, No 554-01-50, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 12 March 2015, and a Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Road Traffic, No 554-01-55, submitted by Pavel Hristov and a group of MPs on 20 March 2015. The report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications will introduce you to her President Grozdan Karadjov. You have the floor, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, please, on the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber Mr. Boyko Ranovski, Head of the Department of the Road Police and Mrs. Katerina Hadjieva, State Expert at the Department of Legal Affairs of the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u9	Honourable Members, please vote on Mr. Grozdan Karadjov's proposal for admission to the Chamber of the persons he has designated. Vote 108 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 3. Please, the Quaestors, invite the persons we just admitted to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u10	Name of the Draft Law:............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u11	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the name of the Law proposed by the importer supported by the Commission. Vote 107 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 4. The name of the Law proposed by the importer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u12	Proposal from the MPs Ivan Valkov, Pavel Hristov, Atanas Tashkov, Tsvetomir Mihov and Claudia Gancheva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 7 the word "engines'
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u13	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1 with the proposed text. Vote 108 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 4. The new § 1 proposed by the Commission together with its content has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u14	According to § 1, there is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Willi Lilkov, Milena Damyanova, Irena Kotseva and Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov, Valeri Simeonov, Christian Mitev and Iskren Vesselinov: the following point is inserted after point 4a (Commission ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 99 the following 1. para. 3 is amended as follows: The Municipal Council shall determine the parking price of the places under para. 1, as well as the terms and conditions for its payment by the leaders of the specialized unit of the municipality or municipal enterprise under art. Art. 51, Art. 53 of the Municipal Property Act to which the management and management of these places is granted. Places by para. 1 may not be subject to a concession or to a lease. 2. The creation of para. 4. The registration and reporting of the revenues from parking spaces shall be carried out through fiscal devices with established remote connection to the National Data Revenue Agency and for the issue of a fiscal receipt corresponding to the required requisitions in the current regulatory framework. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2, and shall propose the following wording: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the The Municipal Council shall determine the parking price of the places under para. 1, as well as the terms and conditions for its payment by the leaders of the specialized unit of the municipality or the legal person under art. 12, para. 1, t. 13 of the Public Procurement Act to which the management of these places is granted, including the adoption of the annual investment plan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u15	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor to protect the proposal we are making with our fellow Patriotic Fronts, as we believe it is more correct in the following aspects. To be honest, this is a private law that needs to solve a private problem that is happening in Sofia. First of all, we agree with the main thesis of importers that the price of the service must replace the charge, as there are certain motives for this. Above all, we are talking about a service which, in addition to the means necessary to provide it, as an objective set out in the Law, must also generate means to maintain the relevant infrastructure for the service, as well as to create additional parking spaces. In fact, this is the basic design of the Law and it treats a specific public municipal property that should be used to improve the organisation of movement, not to generate any profit or to generate any revenue that will go in other directions. We consider it incorrect and incorrect the practice of assigning this type of revenue to municipal companies. Municipal companies are, unfortunately, one structure that has been opaque over the years. As far as they are being controlled, it is mainly by the Municipal Council on the basis of their annual reports. In this direction, control bodies do not enter, for example, the Financial Inspection does not enter the Court of Auditors, and so on. That is, we have a prerequisite for the revenue generated by this public property to be spent not in the best way. A reference to the Sofia Estates and a number of other municipal companies that became emblematic with the poor management of municipal property. We believe that if we go to this option, necessarily municipal enterprises must carry out this activity, revenues must enter the municipal budget and go exactly to what they are provided for in the Law, namely maintaining parking places, infrastructure and, above all, investment in creating new parking spaces, as the idea of these areas is to improve the organisation, reduce traffic and create an alternative to congestion and crowded streets and sidewalks with cars. In this direction, in fact, our proposals with importers are largely identical. The difference is in the recording of a legal person under art. 12, para. 1, t. 13 of the Public Procurement Act, i.e. municipal companies. We believe that our text is more correct and we would appeal to all of you to support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u17	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I would ask you to wake up and concentrate, first of all, because this is about an extremely important text in the Road Traffic Act. And if I have to draw your attention, it's actually about a text that will regulate in the future the so-called blue areas and green zones. Firstly, I would like to address the importers whose text has been adopted by the Commission. My fellow Members, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the text you are proposing and which has been adopted by the Commission is a poorly written text. I repeat, a poorly written text. Moreover, it makes me personally think that through this text that you have imported through which you refer us to para. 1, t. 13 of the Public Procurement Act, someone simply aims to serve a narrow corporate interest. I want to pay attention to that. 13 is extremely controversial and it is subject to a very serious interpretation which has not been done. Since there is one distinction, I would ask you, colleagues, to note that there is a question of companies or companies, I repeat, or a State enterprise within the meaning of art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law, which........................................................................................................... 13 as a letter............................... only the state or municipal enterprise, mostly the state. In a sense, the company can be an absolute trading company to carry out...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u19	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u20	That's right, Mr. Ivanov. Don't yell at me because you are. If it had not been so, there would have been a record of which the company would have, or, otherwise, been the company, and the State undertaking had to meet those conditions laid down in paragraph 1. 13. And since this is a controversial issue here, we're getting into an argument right away, aren't we? So, honourable Members, we have therefore proposed a text which, first of all, within the meaning of the Law, ensures that revenues are entered into the municipal budget, which is extremely important. Moreover, we are not simply guaranteeing this revenue through the legislative amendment that we have proposed to enter the municipal council. We have created in the Law and a mechanism to control the collection of these revenues. Because if you are impressed by the text the importer offers, such a mechanism is missing. In other words, no one can know what kind of revenue will come in. And what is more, they will definitely not enter into the municipal budget, as those enterprises operating within the meaning of the Commercial Law must also comply with the relevant principles laid down in the Accounting Act and international accounting standards, as well as national accounting standards. In other words, the company should work and ensure that it continues its business, which means that it must make a profit. From now on, it is a will under the Statute, which has this legal person, because in your text, colleagues, there is also the notion of a legal person. This legal person can be a limited liability company, can be an LTD, can be an EOOD and so on.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So, fellow Members, I appeal to you to support the text that we from the Patriotic Front propose, as this is the text that clearly serves the needs of civil society, which clearly serves the needs of the Bulgarian municipalities to be able to collect these funds and, by this means, to already build parking lots, to build a good and modern infrastructure to serve the benefit of the citizens. This property is public municipal property for a reason. It's not a coincidence! This is the right text. The text that guarantees, I repeat, control over the collection of these funds. And these funds will also be controlled by the National Revenue Agency. [[The President signals that speaking time is over]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. Municipal enterprises which, within the meaning of art. 53 of the Municipal Property Act can carry out such business, they are obliged to comply with all regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Bajraktarov, I just want to ask you, because a lot of things you have said have not become clear to me and I want to hear from you the public interest with these amendments tabled by the importer, is the money protected and will it enter the municipalities, or will it be used for purposes which the company itself decides accordingly? I want you to say these things briefly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u23	That is to say, your line is because of disagreement on the topic of the Complete and not on the occasion of the speech. Mr. Daniel Kirilov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, it is very difficult to fill a huge deficit in legal training within two minutes. So I will try to be optimally clear without trying to get into your matter, into your territory. Why should the In House, i.e. the reference to the Public Procurement Act, be inadmissible if it is a fact in other law? Why? Is there a legal possibility? Can the municipalities, as well as state-owned companies, make use of this hypothesis, a legal opportunity that exists so far? That we have listed this legal possibility means an attempt to cover all the hypotheses because the municipalities are many. Here it is mistakenly suggested that it is only Sofia Municipality. What about the municipality of Burgas, what about Plovdiv, and the other larger municipalities?! Quite quickly and briefly, I say the following in the rhetorical question of revenue control: the difference in your addition is that at the time of payment of the price it was reported in the NRA. Well, yeah, but that's under tax law, so why repeat it in the Road Traffic Act? Why do you think this isn't done now? But please note the advantage of our editing. Only in our version is answered your question: who exercises control over the funds collected by the municipal company, the public municipal parking property operator? City council, coworkers!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u25	You decorated your line with very rhetorical ornaments, so you didn't have time. Mr. Karadjov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u26	I'd like to replicate Mr. Bayraktarov by reading this. Art. 13 12 of the Public Procurement Act, and support fellow Kirilov. There is indeed an exception to the application of the Public Procurement Act in fulfilling three conditions. First, the capital of the company to be entirely state or municipal property, i.e. this is entirely in the direction in which Mr. Bajraktarov spoke about accountability and about the control of the municipal council. Secondly, the object is subject to control similar to that exercised by the contracting entity over its own structural units. Third, at least 80 percent of its turnover is formed by activities related to ensuring the performance of the functions of the contracting entity. I believe that these three terms are the absolute guarantee of what my colleague Bajraktarov appealed for, and please accept the text proposed by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadjov. Mr. Bayraktarov, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Angelov, colleague, for asking this question. Only the amendment proposed by the Patriotic Front guarantees that this collected revenue will enter the municipal budget. This is the only correct and precise mechanism for which I am responsible, because with the amendment proposed by my fellow Members, supported by the Commission, this revenue is practically included in the business company concerned, not in the budget. And from that point of view, I refer to my answer to Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Kirilov, it will also be very difficult for me in two and a half minutes to give an educational lecture on a financial and accounting topic. I will immediately give you an example, as you pointed out the municipality of Burgas, not only are not accounted for and the revenues are not controlled. The revenues reported in the latest report by the mayor of Burgas indicate that a parking space has brought 10 cents a day income. Ten cents a day! That's the result. Moreover, in the long correspondence conducted with the National Revenue Agency, it turned out that there was no remote link under tax laws to control the collection of these revenues, which was a unique case. The same story is in Sofia, the same story is in Varna, the same story is in Stara Zagora, Plovdiv and so on. The so-called "parcomates" shall not be reported remotely. Among other things, I am now paying attention to my colleague Karadzhov, who may have accidentally missed this point. 13 that there are before the undertakings meeting the requirements of art. 63 of the Commercial Law. First of all, there is the concept of a company. This company or it is this company that no one can guarantee that it will not be a very different trading company established under all the rules of the Commercial Law, and in no way can the revenue be accounted for and entered into the municipal budget anymore. This is the huge difference that we offer to protect the public interest, categorically enter the money into the municipal budget and control over revenue collection. Last but not least, I would like to say again that Bulgaria is not only Sofia. Bulgaria is all over Bulgaria and this Law will apply to all settlements throughout the country. Colleagues, I call on you to support the proposal made by the Patriotic Front because it protects both the municipal and the public interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u29	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. For a statement there is the popular representative Grozdan Karadzhov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u30	Although it may be unnecessary to repeat what has already been said, I will say that Bulgaria is not Burgas and no matter what abuses may be committed in the municipal council there, the Law on Road Traffic is not the place to regulate the construction rules of the Municipal Council in Burgas. Nor can the Road Traffic Act be used as an instrument to prevent abuse. There are other laws. There are laws in which these issues can be settled, and there are criminal laws. But as my colleague Kirilov said, this is a matter of very strict legal matter, and I do not think that the fears that you are asking about how the interests of the municipal budget will be damaged by the fact that a specialized company will carry out these activities, their place, the settlement of these issues is simply not in this law. I therefore propose that we not go further, but support the Commission's proposal, which I believe is supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u31	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand why today was so important at the second vote to adopt these amendments to the Law. Perhaps there are more important things in the country that need to happen than to solve any problems that are within the municipality of Sofia. However, I will give the following example, because the previous MPs also said that other laws refer to these things that we are talking about from the Patriotic Front. On the contrary, if the text of the importers is adopted, it will allow all municipalities where there are such zones to register companies and the activity to be carried out already there and there will be no income in the respective municipalities of this activity. True, the problem in Sofia will be solved, but problems will be created in all other municipalities in Ruse and in Burgas and in Varna and in Plovdiv, where at least a little bit of the problem is solved and there are some revenues in the municipal budget. What do we do now if we accept the text of the importers?! We will allow a trading company to have revenue, to appoint our people, to give bonuses and no money to enter the municipal budgets. Thus, the interest of both the municipality and the public interest will not be protected. Why are we doing this?! What is so important that a commercial company gets rich, or the public interest and interest of municipalities to be protected? I don't get it. Otherwise, all the other problems with the blue and green areas, which are in Sofia and elsewhere, we all know them very well. We see what lawlessness is raging every day in these areas. Maybe half the MPs got hurt, and I got hurt again last week. I call on you to support the texts we have tabled because they will really protect the public interest and interest of the municipalities themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u33	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. - What's the line? People's representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Angelov, I would object to your attempt to suggest that with the regulations something new is being created, there has been a new legal opportunity that has not existed at present. There is nothing like this happening "all forms currently exist in one or another municipalities. There is the hypothesis of both a municipal trading company and a municipal enterprise. It's strange, but I've never heard of a hypothesis in which this activity was carried out by concession. I didn't hear about the concession. If you've heard in a municipality, say so, but this clearly shows that the concession form couldn't work. But where is the key to the question that you are asking? Once again, the municipal council is the principal who decides and who says: "In our municipality the parking will be carried out by a municipal enterprise. " The Municipal Council of the Municipality of Hicks "says: "In our municipality we have such a company as Burgas, which was established before 2007. For this reason we will use the instrument "trade company" "but we will regulate the investment flows and give it a task because someone has to maintain the parking spaces."..... not with the money from the municipal budget, but with the profit and the income from the paid parking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Angelov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! There is a significant difference that it will no longer be a fee, and this changes things when we talk about a price and a trading company. We're talking about profits here and so on. The other example I want to give you because you talk about municipal councils, they make decisions and so on. Yes, you're right, Mr. Kirilov. However, we see during the last week in the media for municipalities of Southern Bulgaria what decisions the municipal councils have taken and whose interest they have defended the interests of mayors and companies related to them. Is this the opportunity we want to give again the municipal councils to decide something for the benefit of someone and to have collective irresponsibility?! Why are we doing this?! If we vote on something new, if we do something new, we have to do it so that it works, there is some control, and we will still give some feudals in municipalities a chance to make a decision, because we know the municipal councils how to vote on them with the respective mayor. You're wrong here, Mr. Kirilov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u37	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. To speak, the people representative Willy Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, frankly, I did not want to take the floor, but since the same questions are constantly being repeated at the second sitting, which we are looking at, I would like to say the following. All questions eventually find their answer in the municipal council of the respective municipality. If the municipal council so requests, this activity will be carried out by concession, through a municipal enterprise or through a commercial company. The current amendment to the Law does not in any way cancel these possibilities of the municipal council. With regard to money, also the control over these funds is entirely within the authority of the municipal council. He voted on the business task of the trading company concerned, he voted on the business programme and finally decided from all the revenues and expenses what dividend to possibly charge this company and it would return to the municipal budget. I think this is where we speculate. It's not that there's no understanding, it's very well-known matter, but there's speculation that's making me take the floor right now. I don't think the interests of the municipalities have been affected. On the contrary, if a municipality wishes to carry it out through a municipal enterprise, please let it do so. If he doubts the possibility of the trading company carrying out this activity, he will not be entrusted with it. He will choose the concession, which I personally do not recommend. I ask you very much to stop this speculation and not say that this is only Sofia's problem. It's the whole country's problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Lilkov. The People's Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Professor Lilkov, you may have good intentions in your speech, but when there is a right of choice that can be corrupted, here the legislator is obliged to intervene in order to avoid the Union. Moreover, I will give you a simple example, because you are a literate enough person and you will understand. If the company concerned ends with a negative financial result, in the sense of loss, what will enter the municipal budget? Of course, zero. If the company concerned has a statute of business under which only dividends can be distributed under certain conditions and very often the practice has shown that these dividends are, unfortunately, not distributed. I will give you a fresh example of the thirty percent of the country in energy, in the ERPs, where we have never seen, unfortunately, a dividend for years. I'm going to give you one more example -- it's a vicious practice of concessions that we've been looking at for the last 15 years. Very wicked! This makes us a banana republic in which municipalities cannot manage and realise the benefits of public municipal property. Please don't call on this vicious model of concessions. We have a very bad example in Bulgaria from concessions. And at the moment, most of the municipalities do not receive the money from concessions provided by law. For example, the municipality of Radnevo has 8 million to receive 8 million, which for this municipality is an enormous amount of money. He can't get it to this day. Here, this is gonna work. I'm giving you an example to understand me, and you're reasonable enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Second line. "The People's Representative Iskren Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u42	Dear Mr. Lilkov, I would agree with the wording of the Municipal Society.If the Commission had accepted the opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, which suggested that only municipal companies should have the right to collect the revenues and import them at a certain price of the service in the municipal budget. In this case, however, we are creating a different opportunity to generate revenue in the companies themselves, relying on indirect control, which over the years has proved ineffective by the municipal councils. We're going to give them an investment task. That's a very good wish. After all, it appeared in the Law because Sofia is perhaps the worst example of managing the collected revenues from these areas. They did not go to improve parking conditions, did not go to create new parking spaces, for example for new parking lots, but went to support other municipal and social needs. This should not be a principle in the Law. Moreover, as legislators, we must ask ourselves the question: should we create any restriction in this Law to prevent possible violations? According to the Patriotic Front, we should. This restriction is created through the possibility of only municipal enterprises collecting these revenues. The shape is flexible enough. Everything is transparent, everything is under control one time by the mayor, the second time by the Municipal Council, and the third time by all institutions that control the municipality. In this spirit, I disagree with the philosophy of your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u43	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Third line. "The People's Representative Stanislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Lilkov, I take a reply on the occasion of your speech, because then the words "concessions" were heard again, the opinion of the Association of Municipalities was heard. Dear colleagues, let us not speculate with the opinion of the Association of Municipalities because when I and my colleague Lilkov and the other colleagues submitted this Bill with its original text, there was the word "concession" there. We have an opinion of the municipalities saying that they agree with the proposals made. I don't know why, after four days, the Association of Municipalities changed its opinion, but I say again: let's not speculate on this. That's my cue. Let's not go back into the terms of the concessions and so on, so that we don't get to the point where we confuse society with what's going on. Under the law. Before me, lawyers spoke. According to the Bulgarian laws there is a legal opportunity to enjoy both the possibility of concession, both for in-house award and for everything else. We don't say anything new in this Law. As we agreed with Mr. Lilkov, we withdrew the word "concession" so that we would not stir up further disputes here. Again, if we continue to talk about the Association of Municipalities, I ask: why was it in line with the original version in which there were concessions and after four days changed it? So let's stop here and go back to the texts of the proposed laws, not solve private problems and talk about what could happen in certain hypotheses. That's not the topic of the conversation right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u45	Are you making a statement or a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u46	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u47	Mr. Lilkov, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague Bayraktarov, you probably didn't hear. I said that I personally do not recommend the form of a concession. Half of your reply was devoted to this. I repeat, I do not recommend it, although the Law on Municipal Property is written. If you want to make the concession as a form at all, make this offer, but in this activity I do not recommend it. Colleagues, if the Municipal Council of a municipality is so crappy that it cannot manage this trading company, control its investments and revenues and determine each year the dividend, what is left for a municipal enterprise that will be entirely under the control of the mayor?! Think about it. I believe that if the Municipal Council is in place, then there should be no worries about spending that money. And more. Do not think that these commercial companies are not inspected and are not controlled by authorities outside the municipality. These are some of the most verified companies in Bulgaria. So the control by the relevant audit bodies and financial bodies and the political control by the Municipal Council is also in place. It is all a matter of quality of this activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u49	Thank you, Professor. Lilkov. For a statement there is the word of the people representative Georgi Svilenski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, on the proposed texts, I would like to express the following opinion. We've been talking about this for an hour. It's about the problem in Sofia. There is nothing to hide about the Ordinance of Sofia Municipality, which will be declared invalid in a few days. For this reason, we must solve the problem of the Centre for Urban Mobility. From there are all interpretations of the colleagues according to the municipality which they represent.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u51	Are you speaking on behalf of the court right now?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u52	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u53	Don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u54	What's this about? If you hadn't changed the word "tax" in the price, perhaps no one would have minded doing it by a commercial company, even though our position has always been that this activity should be carried out by a municipal undertaking. Why are we against being in a trading company? Because for the last 10 years there is not a single built place of this money collected from parking in Sofia. Each year 23 million are collected and sunk into other liabilities, which are also the commitment of the municipality. Therefore, the proposal made by colleagues from GERB - Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs would have been resonant if they had added the proposal in the opinion of the Association of Municipalities [[Reply of MP Stanislav Ivanov.]] I'll make it clear. The first opinion is personal to you, Mr. Ivanov, and the second is the official opinion to the Transport Commission, which I have and which is the one for me. It is clearly stated that the funds of this service should be entered into the municipal budget. It is the municipal council that must order the way and order for them to proceed. Moreover, they say: "According to art. 45, para 1, p. 1 letter "in" of the Public Finance Act, revenues from prices for services are included in the municipal budget. Absolutely. There's no room for comment. The lawyers will correct me if I'm wrong, but that's what the Public Finance Act says. So what do we do when we say that this money won't go into the municipal budget, but into the trading company? Honourable Members, I call on you to support the proposal of fellow Members of the Patriotic Front. This proposal actually protects municipal property, protects citizens when they use parking spaces. As much as it is explained to us that the parking price will not increase, then when this is the commercial activity, the main activity of a trading company, there is no way that it will not form a profit. There is no way these two levs will not become two levs and five pennies or two levs and ten pennies. There is no such economic logic as to say that you will do business and will not make a profit. About control. He's right, Mr. Lilkov, when he said that companies are under very strict control. I'm not saying what they're doing is illegal. They do so with the blessing of the respective majority in the respective Municipal Council, but I say that this is not in the interest of either the voters or the citizens of any municipality. Therefore, honourable Members, once again I call on you to support the proposal of fellow Members of the Patriotic Front, where it is clearly said that this activity must be carried out by a municipal enterprise and that we should stop talking more about the topic of the City Mobility Centre (CMO) as it is clear that with the change the price of the tax is changing the philosophy of the Law. If this hadn't been changed, there wouldn't have been any speeches that have happened so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the public representative Stanislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have made a proposal with a group of MPs, which, in our opinion, responds to all concerns raised so far, I would like to tell you the following. Honourable Members, you cannot accept if you decide to support the proposal of BSP left Bulgaria and dear colleagues, as you have heard, they have no arguments against. The Association of Municipalities was supposed to respond to me in one way, to the Commission in another way, given that it was about the same thing. All of you here can give yourself a clear account of what we're talking about. I'm not going to say it from this tribune. My fellow Members, all the concerns that have been said at first reading regarding this Law have been resolved. Dear colleagues, municipal councils, as colleagues have said, are those who will determine the price for parking, municipal councils will adopt the business plan and investment plan of companies. We'll know where all the revenue from these companies goes. Everything else that's being said is putting forward a variety of possible hypotheses about what could happen, talking about some private cases of irregularities is a topic of another conversation, a topic of other legislation, subject to other laws and bodies that can be addressed. My fellow Members, we must not proceed from the private case in any way whatsoever. If this text was not written in the Law, I ask my fellow Members: how would you prohibit companies from using this particular hypothesis of the Public Procurement Act? I'm asking about the inhouse award? Yeah, it's legal. Can companies benefit from this legal option? They can do it! What are we arguing about right now? We are arguing whether or not we are going to put it in this Law because it is normally arranged elsewhere and another place gives this legal opportunity. You were against concessions. We got rid of the concessions. Dear gentlemen, since you have requested no concessions, change the Law on concessions which gives this right. Change it and ban companies from using these hypotheses. None of you did. We're practicing this Law right now. I ask you again: what do we say with him? Whether he's going to write a concession or not, in house award or not, it doesn't matter at all because it's arranged elsewhere. Again, if you wanted to, you could have made these changes and changed the relevant legislation with them, but you didn't. Now we're practicing political speaking. We must not allow this in Parliament, honourable Members, and former municipal councillors, and people who have dealt with these problems. Mr. Bayraktarov, in a way we support what you have proposed. A specialized unit of the municipality is exactly what you offer. However, there is no possibility with the Law to limit it. If you had written down that you were limiting these possibilities, I still say, in order to be precise in your proposals, you should have made the exceptions in the Public Procurement Act and in the Law on concessions to prohibit it, you didn't. Now we're practicing some talking. Please don't! We have given clear opportunities and guarantees to the people that the Municipal Council will determine the price. After listening to your proposals, we have accepted this, we will also accept the investment plan. Tell us what more can we do with the so-called legal basis regulated in the rest of the Bulgarian legislation? There's nothing to it. Colleagues, let us support the tabled proposal adopted by the Commission. From now on, if anyone wishes, he can make changes to the other laws that treat this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. The line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u58	Honourable President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, my question to you is this: By buying a ticket for the city transport, what do you pay for the price of the transport document, or fee? Why don't you pay a fee? What's the difference? Where exactly is the manipulation? Also, considering a concession, I ask you: do not take the BSP concession line. It is not true that BSP is against concessions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u59	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Second line. "The People's Representative Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I'll wait for you to sign your things because I replicate you, Mr. Ivanov. [[The National Representative Stanislav Ivanov spoke with another MP.]] Mr. Chairman, I can wait for Mr. Ivanov to pay attention to me. Dear Mr. Ivanov, your statement that we are currently discussing something governed by other laws means that we are wasting about an hour of time discussing something that does not make sense because it is already regulated. I don't know why you brought it to the Commission then. The second thing I want to tell you, Mr. Ivanov, is that the difference between price and fee and between a municipal enterprise and a commercial enterprise is that one is a service of citizens and the other is a service of business. If so far the municipality has provided the service supplied to the relevant parking fee, what you are currently proposing is to turn this activity into a commercial activity from which an undertaking can make a profit under all laws, including the Commercial Law, remains in this company. It is a question, as has been said, of the statutes, of a decision where this profit will be distributed? There is no way that a fee that has existed until now will remain the same when it becomes a price. This means that either now the fee has been increased, or the price will be contrary to the Commercial Law and will reflect the cost, but there will be no profit. Then there is no way for a trading company to implement it by law, Mr. Ivanov. There's no way! However, there must also be profit, otherwise it is not a commercial activity. We offer you what was said by Mr. Svilenski. Leave it as a fee and do not touch as prices. Maybe you'll get our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. The third line is the People's Representative Julian Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u62	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Ivanov, you want to make things clear that it's almost our fault that we didn't bring in something you were supposed to bring in. It is part of a law and solves the problems of the Centre for Urban Mobility in Sofia. This is not some law that solves at all problems related to blue areas, paid parking in the country and so on. You're saying we've been assuming hypotheses about what's going to happen. When a law is changed, all hypotheses must be allowed to happen. If we don't discuss the hypothesis of what could happen, then why are we even debating? Then there should be no debate. The other thing I wanted to ask the municipal councillors from Sofia: we have been MPs for more than six months. We have been MPs for more than six months, so vote, think and import things as MPs and not as municipal councilors in Sofia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u63	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Diplica.. the public representative Stanislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kirilov, by the way, I hadn't thought of what you replicated me. Thank you. You said it very precisely, but maybe not all your colleagues understand you because they're not in the matter. The ticket, colleagues, when we talk about the companies owned by the municipality, whichever it is, is also engaged in social activity, or, more precisely, their activities are aimed at meeting the needs of the citizens of the designated municipality. Here it is possible to be a fee. Then she'll have to be cost-oriented. I ask: why have colleagues so far not introduced a change to change the name of the tickets and not to be a travel price but to be a travel tax? This is much more real, colleagues than it is right now. Because when we talk about parking, there's no social activity. That's why it has to be a price. That's the first one. Secondly, colleagues, when accepted... [[National Representative Tasco Ermenkov spoke with MPs from BSP LB.]] Mr. Ermenkov, Mr. Ermenkov! Please don't time me until Mr. Ermenkov... [[Applause to the President.]] Thank you. Mr. Ermenkov, when the municipal council adopts the investment plan of the company, it will record what these funds will be spent on. Currently, they, Mr. Ermenkov, are going to finance the companies that are from the structure of Sofia Municipality, so that we can guarantee the social service, in this case Sofia, at the low price of the ticket. Therefore, dear Mr. Ermenkov, we want not only to determine the price of the municipal council, but to ensure to the capitalized and other cities that the municipal councils by this act will guarantee the social service of their citizens. That's what we're doing! If we accept your proposal, please come out and say it before the elections: We do not mind the ticket in Sofia being BGN 3 and people will be happy because it comes out. That's it. Thank you for your lines. I hope I've been understood.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u65	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. For a personal explanation, the People's Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague Ivanov, first of all, do not suggest that we have not made any proposals. Quite the opposite. The patriotic front has therefore made proposals, honourable Members, in order to protect in the best possible way the public interest through legislation. Once again, I'm going to explain, and I'm not going to go into the controversy about the ticket because I really...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u67	That's not a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u68	Dear Mr. Ivanov, I get the impression that you don't understand matter at all. Tickets are a security, but I have to explain it to you for a very long time. So actually a company, Mr. Ivanov,...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u69	What did I do to offend you?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u70	The price of tickets has affected everyone in this room, not just you. Personal explanation, it's just...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u71	Since you addressed me in your speech, Mr. Ivanov. A company in no way in its commercial activities can be forced to perform social activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u72	That's a statement on the ground.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u73	Know it and explain it once and for all. Once again, the Patriotic Front has put forward proposals with which, first and foremost, revenue goes to the municipal budget under the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u74	For a personal explanation, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u75	I'm explaining to Mr. Ivanov because he mentioned me and turned to me. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Don't replicate me when I'm talking. Mr. President, I am being taken away from my time absolutely purposefully because the proposed changes made by the Patriotic Front are only and only, I repeat, in favor of the Bulgarian municipalities, for the benefit of the Bulgarian society. It is this law and these changes are the place where they should be commented, colleague Ivanov, and this is the right way. Therefore, at first reading we supported you with the good intentions, but apparently at second reading our intentions differ fundamentally because we want to protect the public interest, and apparently someone else wants to protect someone else's corporate, private interesting, which is not in our thoughts and in our behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u76	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. To speak, the people representative Dora Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u77	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I stand on the stand to support the proposal of the MPs Bajraktarov, Simeonov, Mitev and Veselinov. I'll tell you why. Because, in principle, colleagues, if we are to be honest and honest, this is the real communist policy of municipalities. These are the principles of pure communist policy; of clear relations; of a control that citizens themselves can implement through municipal councils; of clear revenues that can enter through municipal enterprises or specialized units and of a lightening with the new paragraph created for fiscal devices. The rest, which is done by colleagues Stanislav Ivanov, colleague Lilkov, Milena Damyanova, Irena Kotseva and Danail Kirilov, is to correct a little of what has been wrong in the big cities so far. I'll tell you why. I was very impressed with the Committee on Regional Development when a non-governmental organisation came to conduct several cases and wanted to find out what the Centre for Urban Mobility has collected as funds. It goes to the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court in the great transparency where the municipal councils were also, does not say: "Yes, there is a third party, does not give information on what funds are collected. Dear colleagues from GERB, who are importers of this proposal, and part of the reformers, always the legal person to be controlled by the municipal council. The Municipal Council is in principle the principal of commercial companies. If there is a profit, the municipal council decides how to distribute it. Those are the rules. There are a lot of municipalists here. This is a possible model, but this is a model that further burdens citizens. If we are correct about a future device for a greater integrity in a poorer country, with cleaner social services, we must be sincere and acknowledge that patriots currently offer a correct, clean policy related to utilities. The rest is crooked right-hand models that burden citizens. To be honest, I would like to announce without any concern: Dear Capitals, with this amendment expect an increase in parking prices.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u78	Well, well, well!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u79	Yes, perhaps now you will be silent until the elections, they will pass in the fall and expect with the new policy that will come next year, increasing the parking price. What they say will be an investment plan. It is normal for the municipal council to set an investment plan for the trading company. What is said about the inhouse award is normal, this is part of the award procedure. Here we are talking about different policies - one is the communist, sincere, municipal policy, which is European, the other has been created so far vicious practices, which we are looking for part of the lightening. I think what colleagues have started looking for compared to the transport ticket is incorrect,...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u80	Why? Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u81	....but maybe if we have to lighten it up and regulate it. Therefore, I will personally support with a clear conscience the proposal of the MPs from the Patriotic Front, because they are correct towards the citizens, towards municipal communist policy. The other is something to do, something to hide, because it's obviously burdened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u82	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. - What's the line? Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Yankova, I expected you to explain in your speech why there is no and should not change the price for urban transport from the fact that the money will not enter a trading company, because in this hall here, expressed an opinion that almost if we do not do this, the price of urban transport will become 3 levs. And at the moment the public transport in each municipality is subsidised by the municipal budget. And whether it will be directly subsidised, for example, with 20 million from the municipal budget and with another 20 from the given commercial company or if it will be subsidised by 40 million from the municipal budget alone, where the other 20 have come from the commercial company of the same activity, I think it has absolutely no meaning and there is absolutely no reason whatsoever for any municipality to afford an increase in the cost of the urban transport service based on this change in the law that we are doing. So these are absolute speculations and I want to make it clear in this House that the price for urban transport has absolutely nothing to do with the parking price and where the funds are going from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u84	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u85	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Yankova! In fact, I will start the line with a brief gratitude to the clarification made by my colleague Svilenski in the way of forming and pricing the price of the ticket. I say the price of the ticket! So there it is permissible to collect commercial income with a subsidy from the municipality, and even another state subsidy. But I didn't want to replicate it. I wanted to replicate it for something else. It bothers me that here and on this issue, which is purely pragmatic and categorically not only about Sofia Municipality, I feel that you pulled out the flags, the drums, the drums of the election fight for the local elections and started scaring people. Nothing like this is going to happen! The price of the ticket in Sofia is one lev, the price of parking is as determined by the Municipal Council. By the way, I want to tell you, even in another speaker of yours, it sounded the same thesis, the municipal council is the strictest regulator in pricing. And think about it - in one case it is a commercial company controlled by the municipal council, in the other case it is a municipal enterprise, but controlled by one person by the mayor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Yankova, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u87	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will not dwell on the price of transport, because it is not the subject of our activity today, as we are debating the price of parking. In the two proposals, there is only one difference that colleagues from GERB and reformers allow legal companies, and how it will be.................... whether in house or under another procedure, this is the work of the mayor and the municipal council. I personally would not accept a proposal here, a commentary, opposition of the mayor and the municipal council, because I do not think that in Sofia Municipality there is a difference between the municipal council and the mayor. I think that trust in Mrs. Fandakova and the current majority is at least in good sync. But we don't make politics. This is part of left-wing standards of another type of view of municipal government. That's a different kind of view. And that is why we accepted them at our convention, we are happy that such a policy is supported in parliament and is proposed by another political party, that is, there is a larger group of political families, which we think may have a communist municipal policy. The two models are admissible. They can't be banned. You couldn't have fixed this bill and stayed in diversity. You've chosen your own path of repair. After you have chosen the way to make the amendment, we are entitled to share our view of the way utility services are implemented in municipalities. And here, if there is such a great deal of transparency, why is there not a single audit of the Centre for Urban Mobility so far, and why is there no transparency about what is ultimately collected from this centre?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Here you are, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Since we have started talking too politically, we have come to conventions, to election campaigns, I think colleagues who have spoken well enough have argued their thesis. I propose a procedure to end the debate and move on to a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u90	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposed termination of the debates by Ms. Karayancheva. They voted 123 MPs: 110, against 3, abstention 10. The motion to end the debate has been adopted. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u91	Dear colleagues, I will allow myself to abuse a few more seconds with your attention. I propose a separate vote on the two new paragraphs that we propose, in view of the different types of criticism. For al. 4 is said to be settled somewhere else in the law, while for para. 3 We believe that it is absolutely appropriate and in the spirit of the proposal under consideration.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u92	I put to the vote the proposed by the MP Iskren Veselinov split vote on their proposal. They voted 133 MPs: 56 against 26, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Bayraktarov. Please, no speeches at all!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u93	Yeah, yeah. Mr. Chairman, I want a re-vote because there were colleagues who failed to vote. Among other things, I think it's appropriate to divide the two votes. As we can see from the rather serious debate, we have different philosophies in these two proposals...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u94	Revoting procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u95	That's why I want a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u96	They voted 141 MPs: 60 against 35, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the whole proposal made by the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov, Valeri Simeonov, Christian Mitev and Iskren Veselinov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 145 MPs: 53, against 8, abstention 84. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u97	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Mr President, to congratulate you for two hours no one has asked for a procedure in the manner of conduct. [[Radio.]] I propose a re-vote because some of my fellow Members were right in this House and could not vote, and it is important that these texts be adopted in order to protect public interest. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u98	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Re-vote procedure please vote. Vote 148 MPs: 53, against 18, abstentioned 77. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer edited by the Commission for § 1, which is referred to in the Commission's report as § 2. Please vote on the version of the Commission. Vote 148 MPs: 93 against 43 abstentions 12. Paragraph 2 of the Commission report has been adopted. Negative vote, come in. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I voted against it because I believe that, in the way that we have adopted the text, we have done something with which we have turned a service into a commercial activity. In my opinion, it is not the job of municipalities to trade with the interests of citizens, even more so when they have not provided them with the appropriate parking spaces, and we are turning it into a trade from which they will benefit not only the municipalities, but also some companies. The difference between a commercial company and a municipal enterprise is also in wages. Because by allowing a municipal enterprise to be replaced by a commercial company, we also assume that instead of the salaries, as in the municipal enterprise, to be proportionate to the salaries of the administration, we have made this service also proved to be by a commercial company whose salaries will be decided by the management of this company and ordinary citizens will pay it. So whatever we talk about will have an appreciation, there will be an increase in the cost of parking in cities and this will not affect the average citizen. That is why, bearing in mind that we are here called upon to defend the interests of citizens, I voted against this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u100	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. We shall continue with the Commission's report. Mr. Karadjov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u101	Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 99a, para. 1 after the word "Municipality" shall be
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u102	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 3 with the corresponding text. They voted 119 MPs: 117, none, abstention 2. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 3 with the corresponding text has been adopted. Paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u103	Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski: "Paragraph 2 is amended as follows: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 167, para. 2, p. 2 a comma shall be placed at the end and the amount shall be added upon refusal to be paid on the spot until the time of service of the ticket or the act establishing the infringement. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u104	Statements? Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, this paragraph refers to the so-called'scobs' which place on citizens who have either not paid or their parking time has expired. By the current law and by the current regulations, when you have no money at the moment to pay for the clamp at 18,00-18.30, the car is repatriated with a spider, is in a parking lot and if you do not have another 60 leva. for repatriation, the car remains in the penal parking lot plus 2 leva. for an hour for each hour of stay, while wages. I ask if a normal Bulgarian citizen who receives 500 BGN. salary, walks every day in his pocket with 100 leva. minimum? That is why my proposal is: when such a violation is found, when a person has not paid the parking and has been assigned a clamp, the control authority will come to draw up an act or a ticket, if there is no money to pay on the spot, the car will be released. The same suggestion I make later in the next article about spiders, but there I will say it further. The proposal is that when you have no money on you or refuse to pay, you will be drawn up a ticket or an act to establish the infringement and release the vehicle. I think that no company, whether municipal or private, has the right to carry out this racket over the citizens, keeping the car until payment of the amount, because it is a pure racketeering method, wherever you look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Georgi Svilenski, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 44, against 22, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u107	Dear colleagues, I really ask you to do a re-vote, at least we are the people in this House not to legitimize the racket that is imposed on all Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u108	Thank you, Mr. Slivensky. Revoting procedure. They voted 100 MPs: 40, against 25, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u109	I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2, which in the Commission report shall become § 4. Please vote. Voted 106 MPs: 80 against 25, abstention 1. The text of § 4 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u110	Two proposals have been made to amend art. 171 of the MPs Petar Slavov and Georgi Svilenski. The proposal of the MP Petar Slavov: screated § 2a: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 171, p. the following point 1 (g) which has caused a car accident in which persons with moderate or severe bodily injury or death have been injured until the issue of their responsibility has been resolved, but for no more than 1 year. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u111	Present the next proposal to Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u112	The proposal of the National Representative Georgi Svilenski: screated § 2a: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 171, c. 5, in point (b) of the second sentence, the text after the expression "of the owner of the vehicle" shall be deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u113	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Slavov. We are discussing two proposals to create a new § 2a.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, we have spent a lot of time on the parking problems, and I suggest that we take a proper time on the road war, because it seems to me that people are expecting concrete measures from us there. What I have suggested concerns this particular matter. This is about the so-called "forced administrative measures" that the DMV authorities can impose in certain situations, and such situations under the Act in force are when, for example, the driver is caught after visible use of alcohol or when he refuses to give evidence to the driver. And at the moment, there are such forced administrative measures in the Law, and they temporarily take away the driving licence until the issue of guilt is clarified, that is, until the eventually issued criminal order comes into force. Often, the justifications we hear from the DMV authorities in such situations, with the so-called drivers-recidents, are that they did not have the power to take the license, as the driver in question had appealed his criminal order. This measure, which I have proposed, actually gives them this opportunity, and I hope that if we accept it, there will be no more justifications, that is, they will really be able in a situation of serious road traffic accident here I note that it is a car accident with victims or with moderate or severe bodily injury. This, colleagues, as you well know, will also pay attention to you fellow lawyers, is that they are also crimes within the meaning of the Penal Code and committed criminal liability to these drivers, so it really is about very serious road accidents, where such a temporary measure seems to me to be absolutely justified, all the more so that the legislator at the moment, as I said, has provided for such measures for far less important violations, for example, if the car is down with silencers or if it is visible, according to the DMV authority, the driver does not well know the Road Traffic Regulations. Consider now what measures there are and operate in the Law, and in practice necessary measures that would allow in such situations adequate interference of the DMV authorities are missing. I ask you, when you vote, bear in mind the next paragraph that I have proposed, as the main argument that has been heard by the Commission is that the problem is that there is an unlawful imposition of this sanction on drivers, in practice, not to harm innocent people, which I absolutely accept, and for this reason the next paragraph that I have proposed concerns the possibility of quick judicial review of these measures if they are imposed by the ATT. By the way, this judicial review will develop within a month and will be final, so I think that the necessary guarantees are given to ensure that there are no abuses. The last thing I'm going to finish with, Mr. Chairman, is that I'm making an editorial proposal to change the term from one year to six months, and here it is in writing. [[Passing the proposal to the President-in-Office of the sitting.]] In other words, the main argument that I heard that a withdrawal for a period of no more than one year is too long a term to be six months. This is my editorial proposal, to comply with all the other currently forced administrative measures in the Law. That is exactly how it is written about alcohol, that up to the time of clarification of the issue of guilt, but not more than six months. This is my editorial proposal and I ask that we vote separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u115	In fact, you are proposing an amendment to your proposal for a new § 2a.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u116	Yeah, one year to become a six-month-old.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u117	Yes, thank you. Any other speeches? Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the proposal I am making in this text concerns spiders. That is, when the car is repatriated to you in a criminal parking lot, again if you do not pay on the spot the amount of repatriation and the stay price you have made in that paid area, the car will be released after a ticket or act establishing the infringement. The arguments are exactly the same, and the amounts are already much larger here. We are witnessing in the punitive parking lot there are cars that stand for two or three years, are practically nationalized by the municipality, as people do not have the opportunity to pay the parking price for a punitive parking lot, as well as the price for repatriation. For this reason, I propose that the cars be released, that is to say that they should not be detained again, not to use the racketeering methods of the municipalities against the citizens of the municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u119	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? I won't. Any other comments on the two proposals? I won't. We vote on the proposal of the National Representative Petar Slavov, which is not supported by the Commission, with his personal amendment and the expression "one year" to be replaced by "six months." They voted 98 MPs: 39, against 1, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. There's no desire to re-vote. We are voting on the proposal of the National Representative Georgi Svilenski to create a new § 2a, which is also not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 35 against 10, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u120	Proposal from the National Representative Petar Slavov: screated § 2b: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 172 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. in para. 3 after the words the letter "b" shall be added to the letter "j"; 2. para. 5 is amended as follows: The appeal of the orders under para. 1 and the actions of the seizure of SMPS under para. 3 and 4 shall be carried out in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Code. The competent administrative court shall rule within one month of receipt of the complaint and its decision shall be final. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u121	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Slavov partly motivates this proposal of his. If you wish, of course, you can take the floor again. No. Are there any other statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Petar Slavov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 19 against 2, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u122	Paragraph 3. Proposals were made, first by the MP Petar Slavov, second by the MP Ivan Valkov, Pavel Hristov, Atanas Tashkov, Tsvetomir Mihov and Clavdy Gancheva, third by the MP Nastimir Ananiev, then by the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov, Valeri Simeonov, Hristian Mitev and Iskren Veselinov and a proposal by the National Representative Georgi Svilenski. The Commission supports the proposals in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 5, and shall propose the following version: .................................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 178f: Art. 178f. Punishable with a fine of 50 to 200 leva. a person who parks a road vehicle in parks, gardens, playgrounds, areas intended solely for pedestrians and sidewalks in settlements outside the areas authorised for that purpose.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u123	Thank you. There are several adopted proposals plus an amendment to the Commission. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I take the floor to clarify what this is about. My proposal concerns the range of the fine. What the Commission proposes is 50 to 200 BGN. Currently, the parking ticket is BGN 20. I propose that it be from 20 to 200 BGN, its size in the given municipality to be determined by the municipal council and that this is written in the Law. Since the municipal council can also do so at the moment, but when the Road Police draw up these acts, it can draw them up from 50 to 200 BGN without complying with the decision of the Municipal Council. My suggestion is that the fine should not be from 50 BGN, but from 20 to 200 BGN. and to be determined by a decision of the Municipal Council concerned on whose territory the infringement took place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u125	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, the initial text of the proposal was the fine of 200 BGN, there was no.................................... and so on. Why is this being done, honourable Members? Because otherwise we fall into the hypotheses of various legal techniques and opportunities that gave right to the people, to the intruders in particular, I apologize for the expression of the people, and to the intruders, to avoid being punished for having parked improperly. Dear colleagues, why reduce the fine now to be BGN 20.? So we can go back to the old text of the law, which says that the fine is BGN 20. Oh, yeah? It doesn't make any sense to do that. When we talk about fines, they should be sort of synchronized. It doesn't matter who imposes them on the Ministry of Interior, respectively the DMV, or the municipal councils with their units. The fines of municipal councils in the country are generally such, even between 50 and much more. There are even cities where there is a fine between 50 and 800 leva. That's right, yeah. However, given the debate, the colleagues who made the initial proposal for 200 BGN changed it and made it from 50 to 200 BGN. Again, the original version was different and aimed at a disciplined effect. There have been many debates on this subject. In the media space we have repeatedly heard opinions from various interested parties and indeed colleagues have accepted the fine to be reduced from 50 to 200 BGN. Again, if we return the fine to BGN 20, this will already be a complete retreat from what we are seeking, namely this fine to have a disciplinary effect, to be effectively imposed and collected, and not through it to try in any way to avoid the law. Honourable Members, let the fine remain from 50 to 200 BGN, which is what the current proposal has been made. This is in principle the adopted text of the Commission so that we can, again I say, actively work towards prevention and termination of violations. All speculation that the Ministry of Interior will impose fines of BGN 200. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We aim to align the legislation with the legal basis of the municipalities in order to have synchronization in the prices and not in one place to write 20 or, for example, as the municipal councils recorded in different municipalities, and then through legal techniques to avoid punishment. And I ask again, if we turn it down, what will we achieve? We're going to give people a chance to do that, and I can't figure out what the purpose of reducing the fine to 20 levs is.? We want to give people a chance to park for 20 leva. in playgrounds, parks, areas designated for pedestrians only. Is that what we're after? I guess not. Let us therefore abstain from this proposal made just now and support the text that is on the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u127	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Svilensky, you've taken the floor on this text. We have a point of order to specify, then I'll give you the floor. A line? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I don't know why you are trying to manipulate this room by saying that the fine was reduced to BGN 20. The lower threshold is not reduced to BGN 20 and the lower threshold is reduced to BGN 20. From 20 to 200 leva. There are still 200 levs left, as Mr. Svilensky suggested. In addition, the text proposed by the Commission lacks the way in which the fines will be determined precisely................................................................................................ Mr. Svilenski therefore proposes that this be a decision of the municipal councils of the municipality concerned, but that it be written in the Law so that there is no doubt about it. Moreover, there is no way to compare the solution of stopping in Sofia, for example, with stopping in a village or another town where people have different incomes, different levels of life, and to think that we can achieve some justice. Punishments and fines have prevention, but they don't have to be killers. I will give an example because we have entered the field of populism, which goes more for us than for you, Mr. Ivanov, but you also take advantage of it, the example is as follows. A pensioner who takes his car out once a year to take his wife to the hospital because he has to and has nowhere to stop and just stops where he can't, will have to pay 50 leva. fine. And then we'll wonder when he paid the pension 50 leva. Fine, what's he gonna buy his meds with and what's gonna be okay with him? [[Laughter, calls from GERB.]] Please! That is why we tell you: from 20 to 200 and municipalities will decide in accordance with the living level of their population whether the fine will be 20, 100 or 200 BGN. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u129	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. That was a first line. Here's a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u130	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I personally think and told the Commission that the fine of 200 BGN. She's very tall. Currently, most municipalities, for example in Sofia, where I live, since the parking problem has not been solved, we cannot fine people with such a high fine. And at the moment there is a fine, but we know what the problem is: firstly, it is not necessary; and secondly, it is not collected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u131	Who doesn't it come from?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u132	Well, from the city. The city, which must impose the fines, almost nowhere, imposes the fines that are currently in place. I think if we raise the fines to BGN 200, we'll open up a huge field of corruption. I was the one who suggested the fine to be 50 leva. I agree that it should be raised, that it should be given a sign. The 20 levs Mr. Svilenski offers, I understand his proposal, but we must give a sign with the lifting of the fine. I also support the scissors, which we made from 50 to 200 BGN, but I also support Mr. Svilenski's proposal, we must include in the Law the municipal council to decide what fine to impose for its municipality because it knows what the current situation in its municipality is. I think that's a good offer. However, the problem remains, there is a problem with parking. Let the municipal council decide what fine between 50 and 200 BGN. is good for the municipality itself. I think it might be a good idea to insert the second part of Mr. Svilensky's proposal...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u133	The city doesn't do anything to solve the parking problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u134	Obviously, the problem is not solved. Yes, there is a problem with parking, and there are fines at the moment. But at the moment, the fines are neither imposed nor collected. They only have them by law. If we raise them to 200 BGN, we open up a field for corruption, because then everyone will be able to say: Or pay here to close my eyes. Let's accept what Mr. Svilenski proposed and let the municipal council decide what to fine according to the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u135	Third line, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u136	Can I get a third line from another parliamentary group, not from the opposition?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u137	Well, we've already made our decision. I gave the floor for a third line. If you had asked for it earlier, of course we would have followed this unwritten principle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u138	Mr. Ivanov, I won't say anything wrong, don't worry. Colleagues, why I suggest it be from 20 to 200 leva.? First, manipulation is that the fine is reduced. At the moment it is BGN 20. When colleagues offered to become 200 BGN, the mayor of Sofia "the man in the first five in rating, became and said clearly on TV: "We are not ready for this proposal. Leave the fine 20 leva. In this case, I believed the mayor of Sofia and therefore I stepped on BGN 20. Otherwise we can talk about 30 and 40 and 50 leva. I've worked with the mayor of Sofia for over six years, and in this case, I believed her. That's why I offered 20 leva. I call on you to support the proposal, as Mr. Nastimir Ananiev said, not just the second part, but to join the first part of my proposal. I don't think there's gonna be any problem. Let the municipalities decide from 20, 30 to 200 BGN. Maybe 30, maybe more. My colleague Ermenkov is right, who is now telling me the following. It'll be cheaper to park in the wrong blue zone for 30 leva. a fine rather than a penalty of 50 BGN. Then we'll transfer the violations to other places. I beg you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u139	Is there a Blue Zone in the park?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u140	In the center of Sofia, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u141	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. That was a third line. Mr. Ivanov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues on the left just don't read. They're obviously going out and talking to each other like that. I'm asking, which park is Blue or Green Zone? It's got green areas. But this is something else, Mr. Svilensky, these are not paid or free parking areas. What are you guys talking about?? You're talking nonsense! Dear colleagues, so far, it has been said several times here: the municipalities to determine the municipalities to determine. Yeah, but the municipalities have regulations and they set their fines in these regulations. Dear colleagues, how can the municipality fine under the Law? Dear colleagues, this will be done by the Ministry of Interior. What are we talking about here? Can someone from now do the lines Mr. Ermenkov, Mr. Ananiev, Mr. Svilensky, come out and logically explain what we're talking about? Again: this is a uniformity of legislation with the regulations of municipalities. The municipalities have decided in their regulations what they will do.. whether they will impose large or small fines. Enough of this Sophia! As they said: Sofia is not Bulgaria. There's this problem all over the country. I ask: When, God forbid, a child's death happens? Children died in pedestrian zones. Let's not go back to that and not discuss it. But I ask: what is the difference between where it happened? Dear colleagues, it has happened and this act has led to death or to bodily harm, unfortunately. What difference does it make where it happens? Do the people on the left appreciate it differently? You can't do that if you're doing this. Honourable Members, let us support the proposal tabled on the Commission in order to align the Law with the regulation. End of story. [[Laughter and applause from BSP LB.]] All right, regulations! [[Extending laughter and lines from BSP LB.]] You can clap all you want, but when you don't understand, it's better not to talk, because again, you're embarrassing yourself. They themselves from the Ministry of Interior were firm for a fine of BGN 200. And when the same question was discussed in the Commission, the Ministry of Interior said: "Dear colleagues, let the fine be solid BGN 200. and apply to everyone because the Law does not distinguish between Sofia and other settlements, other cities. The law is one for the whole country. End of story. There is nothing more to speculate and talk about here about Sofia and whatnot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u143	Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u144	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I suggest that you announce a break, as the debate seems to have entered a phase in which there is no logic at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u145	It's a good thing you're listening to me carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u146	Yeah, but that doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u147	It's time for a break anyway. Please consider two questions: exactly what Mr. Svilensky proposes in the new editing of the point, and Mr. Ananiev suggested adding an additional sentence. 30-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u148	Dear Members of Parliament, please take your seats in plenary. The hearing is ongoing. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the National Assembly under § 5 of the new numbering Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, it is clear to all that the fine of 20 BGN. as a size has no positive effect as a fine. It has neither a deterrent nor an upbringing effect. For this reason, the proposals were made. It has become a serious debate in both society and the Commission. And that is why the proposals between first and second readings were made about five or six proposals. In the proposal, which was adopted by the Commission, I believe that more than 90% of the proposals have entered, with the exception of Mr Svilenski's proposal. There was a minimum threshold of 50 BGN. and a maximum of 200 BGN, thus respecting the proposals of all colleagues from the Commission and we believe that this is the most balanced proposal. Moreover, it is supported by a letter from the National Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria as well as by the control bodies. We believe that such fines with such a difference exist in other administrative and legal provisions of the Law, such as in art. 175. It's also 50 to 200 leva. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 187 fines are from 100 to 300 leva. So I don't see any problem with the fines having a range of 50 to 200 levs. Furthermore, we give the municipal councils the opportunity to make their own decisions about the range or not to have a permanent fine of permanent size. What is being done, we believe to be completely democratic and correct. This is also reflected in the other legislation and we therefore believe that there is no need to have a name text to mention that this will be done in municipal councils. I therefore call on you to vote on this proposal, which has almost unanimously been voted on in the Commission as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u150	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Bayraktarov for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I regret that the hall is half empty when we need to look at a really important text from the Road Traffic Act concerning changes in art. 178f, but I still think it's right here to bring some clarity to this text. Because, as the familiars know, the Patriotic Front has also made an extremely pragmatic, extremely correct proposal to amend the text of this article, which, naturally, is also supported by the Commission. I will be interested in which text will eventually be adopted, as I have to admit and the text of my fellow Members also has its sensibilities. What's the point, fellow Members, here when you change this text? Firstly, I say this also in relation to fellow journalists, to the media, because it is very important that this topic is reflected precisely. Here a very correct and very accurate distinction must be made from incorrect parking, in the sense of violation of the signs B27 and B28 of the Road Traffic Act, as what is intended in this text, imposing fines, sanction, and we propose this sanction to be 200 BGN, because only such a sanction of this size will have a disciplinary effect. Why? Why we from the Patriotic Front impose and want to be this sanction of 200 leva.? Because, colleagues, first of all, it is an absolutely deliberate violation of the Law. Once again, I repeat the absolute intentional violation of the Law. Not just incorrect parking, which violates sign B27 and mark B28. It's a huge difference. Moreover, to be cleared, since the proposal of the Patriotic Front, among other things, is connected as a philosophy with our previous proposal, which we made so that there are no hindrances in some, that this is how someone's activity is served by having nowhere to park and go where you are to collect your money. No, it is for this reason that we have pointed out purely legislative Section IX of the Law on Construction in the territory, which very precisely and clearly determines which are these landscaped areas, what is included. The lawmaker has already considered not to have a broad interpretation of this concept and, you see, someone because he stopped on a grass, as he often tries to speculate on this topic, he also wants to be fined. No, the Law on the Construction of the Area clearly and precisely in Section IX has formulated what "green area" means. Colleagues, in addition to all this, we should not miss a very important and important moment here. We also want this fine to be imposed for drivers who have parked their vehicles on the sidewalks. Why? Public attitudes here are identical. In recent years, months, first of all, many children became victims for the simple reason that they did not have the conditions to move on the sidewalks because they were occupied by deliberately parked vehicles. Yeah, the excuse is there's nowhere to stop, there's nowhere to go. We must focus on the efforts that it is ultimately necessary for a person to start using public transport when he wants to move mostly to the administrative area of a large city, of a municipality. It is important to say that with our proposals, which we have made under art. 178 is from the Road Traffic Act, we aim precisely to protect pedestrians, mothers with strollers, with young, infant children. Just a few weeks ago, colleagues, there was another protest by the mothers in Burgas, in Sofia, in Varna for the simple reason that our children with these legal acts, which have been acting so far, are putting them in real death danger. We have nothing to speculate and to politicize the subject here. That's why there has to be a serious penalty. Moreover, we must appeal to the municipalities to find a mechanism for collecting this sanction, because it is no less important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u152	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other comments on the texts discussed? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u153	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like, above all, to draw the attention of the importers to the proposal made by the people's representative Svilenski and to comment on why it should be adopted. Colleagues, if you have generally supported and actually have the will in the National Assembly to have a disciplinary measure up to BGN 200. a fine, which is extremely necessary when we cannot deal with the municipal councils in public relations, and as a self-awareness, I personally agree to have a long horizon, a large scissors, as the Commission has accepted and has made a proposal from 50 to 200 BGN. However, if we are to be correct to the Law, we, with this Law, have also objected to the Committee on Regional Development, under the Road Traffic Act, which we are changing, making changes to the Law on Local Self-government and to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. See what happens if we have to be correct here is Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, perhaps people who understand public finances. If we leave art. 178 is that it is punished with a fine from 50 to 200 BGN. a person who parks a road vehicle in parks and gardens outside the designated places, the DMV will fine at its discretion in the corridor from 50 to 200 BGN. and the funds will enter the state budget, and we are on the territory of the regulation of cities and settlements. We will deprive municipalities of their income because municipalities make one regulation, municipalities discipline the environment. I would like to make such a comment: if we leave this decision in the Road Traffic Act in this way, we approach art. 179, where the law has applied the highest fine for people with disabilities, which is applied to yes, this will be a disciplinary measure, but will not enter into the municipal budget. Dear colleagues, if we write it down for what my colleague Svilenski has proposed, as a municipality member and a person who wants to debate the municipalities at the moment, that it is by decision of the Municipal Council and its regulation, where we have the regulation of infrastructure and there the municipality is the master of the situation, then the money will enter the municipal budget. Here, in my opinion, either a break, or an addition, we just have to solve it. Further back, here I asked the experts, on the next page I will go a little further as a commentary, there is that in the Law on Local Taxes and Fees with a regulation defined places for pavements, squares, street sails and areas for paid or for free parking. Yes, but this, my fellow Members, is about the first thing we voted for, where are the ban regimes, where are the fines? That's where we set it up. Now I would like to ask the initiators of this discussion to think a little bit, if we have to take a break, to stop the clock, but not to deprive the municipalities of these funds. Otherwise the state treasury will accept the discipline of the environment in cities and settlements some funds that will go to the state budget. However, they will not then return to the municipalities. That is why I am speaking with the clear mind not to deprive of yes, to have a disciplinary measure, the municipalities of revenue that will go to the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. - What's the line? Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Yankova, public government claims where are they going? What budget? These are public government claims. How are we going to change other laws in the Road Traffic Act again? Colleagues, I say again, as I spoke just now, when you have suggestions, argue them. You have the right between first and second readings to submit proposals on the texts and to change the relevant laws. How will we solve things that are governed by other laws with the Road Traffic Act? Public government claim shall be included in the budget of the State. Under the Road Traffic Act, municipalities are entitled to establish regulations. The revenues from the fines imposed under these regulations are included in the municipal budgets. End of story. What more are we commenting on?! I don't understand what you want, Mrs. Yankova. It's against the law. Don't do it that way. Another is the parliamentary technique that you can use, but again, this is going through a change of legislation, as I have just highlighted on the occasion of another speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u156	Thank you. Second line? I won't. Here's your coat, dear Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u157	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I absolutely don't accept what Mr. Ivanov said. In the Road Traffic Act, after we will give a mandate to the authorities of the Ministry of Interior to raise funds, they will judge, they will be on the territory of the city, inside, and will import the money into the state budget. So that's not bad, only you think about it, you represent the big cities right now. With this disciplinary measure, you will deprive your mayors of a lot of money. Find the measure. In our party, we have order. Mr. Svilensky has put in an offer. The lead is the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. It is no accident that he made a proposal that within the borders, in the same sentence, whether it is from 20 to 200, accept it from 50 to 200, you do so, but do so on the territory of the municipality that this is decided by a decision of the municipal council, he should delegate his rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u158	That's by law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u159	It's not by law. Check it, stand up, prove it. Otherwise, vote on it and deprive your municipalities of money.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u160	Thank you. Are there any speeches, honourable Members? Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! As a matter of fact, I do not know whether to declare a conflict of interest because, colleagues, I see, we all have evidence of rule, the so-called Books and, according to the Law of Conflict of Interest, I feel that we are all in conflict of interest, like hunters when the Hunting Act was adopted. That is what I say to know when we vote laws, they should be made so that at least they are working. Once we have adopted, whether it is the Road Traffic Act or the Energy Act, everything before being voted should be seriously argued. I'm gonna go with art. 178f. Here, colleagues, you propose to be punished with a fine of 50 to 200 BGN. a person who parks a road vehicle in parks. Dear colleagues, if it's a park, what does the road vehicle do in this park? The park still owns property. He's the property of the municipality. If the park belongs to the municipality, will it take preventive measures to prevent vehicles from entering this park? Will we record here the appropriate sanctions against the municipal leadership, to the mayor, that he has not taken those measures to prevent the road vehicle from entering the park, but immediately impose a fine? So we create conditions for the road vehicle to enter the park freely and then we say, "Come on, let's give you a ticket!" Next thing you know, guys, it's kids' playgrounds. Come on, tell me, what is this playground where cars can circulate, park and move?! The playground also has owners, it should be secured at least not to enter road vehicles. I'm going to continue on the sidewalks as well. Colleagues, I just heard a colleague here say, "The parks, the gardens, where are they, so they can't be fined?" Gardens and parks were not the property of the municipality and are not like roads, so no violations can be made in this area. For the sidewalks, colleagues, I think the text should be removed directly. Dear colleagues, I believe that with the amount of fine from 50 to 200 BGN, with scissors, with the frame that opens, we give the sanctioning authority the opportunity to assess. Why do we think that the sanctioning authority will decide exactly who it should be for 50 BGN, and for whom should it be 200 BGN, or the proposal to align the Law with the Regulation just now, does not sound very serious. Therefore, colleagues, if you do not accept to drop art. 178 e, at least take into account the possibilities, first, to make the municipalities make sure that vehicles do not have access to parks, to playgrounds, to those places on the sidewalks where they can park, and subsequently, once these conditions are created, make sure that the fines are still acceptable and equal to everyone. My proposal: a fine of 50 leva. is much more acceptable as a preventive measure, I'm sure it will also have a disciplinary effect. Fine of 200 leva. In my opinion, it is not within the reach of all those who have books and drive vehicles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u162	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. - What's the line? Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Atalay, you obviously didn't understand what I said in my speech. I'm going to say it again so you can understand it. There are representatives of the experts in this area of the Ministry of Interior, as I understand it, and currently the legislation in force for incorrect parking provides for a fine of 50 BGN. Then I ask, what's the point? This was precisely the purpose of this debate, of this change of art. 178 e s to have an educational measure. And the second thing I want you to understand very clearly and precisely, because this topic should not be made populism. Here we are talking about a deliberate violation of the law, not merely incorrect parking or incorrect stopping. We're talking about a deliberate violation! If I have to give you examples of children's playgrounds in just the last few weeks, the media have broadcast dozens of such examples that have literally turned them into... Even if memory serves, children's playgrounds in a Sofia school were literally turned into a parking lot. The headmaster of this school, who has a delegated budget of 88th school, tells me here colleagues have repeatedly placed fences, barriers and whatnot. However, with this delegated budget, how many barriers will it have to put in order to discipline intentional offenders? Here, that's the point of this text. Last but not least, I ask you: don't you ask yourself that such scissors from 50 to 200 leva. Gives the possibility of corruption? Who will determine the criteria for determining the amount of the fine? Who's that gonna be? We will return to those dark times when the official will look at you with a frowning look and say to you: "Now what are we going to do? " Is that what you want us to return? That's why 200 leva. a fine is the disciplinary measure. Moreover, the practice has shown that when the Bulgarian went out in countries where there is a strict financial penalty, discipline is respected flawlessly. I can give you dozens of these examples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u164	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u165	I couldn't figure out what my colleague was replicating. Mr. Bayraktarov, for the first time I see you agree with my proposal. The first thing I said was for the mayors to do everything possible to prevent a road vehicle from entering a playground, and if there is a deliberate action on the fence facilities on the playground, there are authorities and institutions that will search and find the intruder. As for corruption, about the fine from 50 to 200 BGN, you are absolutely right. Therefore, I propose a solid measure of 50 BGN. It is also a preventive measure with a disciplinary effect. From what I understand, you're in a position to pay 200 leva. You may have money in your group, but there are people who don't have that kind of money. [[Radio in the Patriotic Front.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u166	Thank you. Honourable Members, any other speeches on the texts discussed? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, very briefly. The practice has taught us that the wider a pair of scissors is, the more possible to manipulate and cut according to the head of the victim or of the perpetrator of the infringement is different. Therefore, colleague Ramadan Atalay suggests that we not have scissors, but a knife, i.e. cut the same for everyone, rather than dissolve the scissors from 50 to 200 BGN, and that we go to prove whether it is intentional or not. In the text, an honourable colleague from the Patriotic Front, there is nowhere the term "intentionally." If we go to prove who deliberately parked on the playground, who wouldn't want to go anywhere. And let the intruder go to justify himself: I inadvertently parked, so give me a fine 50 BGN, the minimum one, to go to the municipal administration to prove that it was not intentional, but deliberately parked the citizen on this playground, so he has to fine 200 BGN, so we open the scissors wide. Let's see what we're doing in this case, if it's intentional or not intentional. There is a full resonant in the proposal not to have scissors, but to have a knife to cut 50 leva with. or 100 BGN, but make it clear to all equally. Whoever parks on a playground, on a green area, knows what's waiting for him, not to leave and explain whether it's deliberate or not, whether it's unimportant or not important. I suggest that there will be no more from the current status quo, at the discretion of the Chamber..... or 50 leva, or if we want to change the current status quo, we can raise the fine a little bit, but be firm. Second offer. The worst legislative practice is to insert in one text different compositions, different hypotheses, which are very often radically different and have nothing in common. For example, there are many such examples in the Penal Code as well as in other laws. Especially in qualified compositions there are absolutely incompatible things, and we place them under one denominator and classify them equally as more serious crimes with equal punishment as a qualified composition, and they must be distinguished. In this case, so is I don't see how you can put under one denominator parking on the sidewalk, parking in playgrounds, in green areas. You know how many sidewalks there are in cities, not only in Sofia, but in settlements and how many playgrounds, how many green areas. Hypotheses are absolutely incomparable. There must be hundreds of thousands of sidewalks in Sofia, and how many parks are there in Sofia, how many playgrounds? You can't put parking on the sidewalk under one denominator. Probably in Sofia right now when I'm talking, there must be tens of thousands of similar violations. I am convinced that at the moment I speak, there are tens of thousands of violations in Sofia falling under the blows of this new composition. I don't know how many parking violations on a playground, parking in a park and so on. These things have to be distinguished. They cannot be placed under one denominator. From this point of view, I suggest that the words on the sidewalks be removed, find a separate text in which the penalty is differentiated, so that it is clear that whoever parks on the sidewalk, the penalty is so, and whoever parks on a green area, on a playground, to know that there the penalty is much greater, because there is much greater danger. The cases are much smaller, but the public danger is growing because there is a daring and conscious violation of the Rules, while on the sidewalks you know the excuse. My suggestions are to drop the words on the sidewalks in the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u168	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. Second line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, honourable Mr. Kazak, and at the moment, the current Act in force in art. Art. 175, Art. 177 has fines from 50 to 200 BGN, from 100 to 300 BGN. They were accepted not by us, but before that. Where you parked gives reason to assess the scale of the penalty, the size of the fine. That's why it's 50 to 200 leva. As was originally written for a solid fine 200 BGN, then your question was important. Is it the same thing to park on a playground or on a sidewalk? You could have asked that question at the time, but at the moment this question does not make sense because there is an opportunity to assess the act and to impose the fine on it. In the case of the Law by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior or by the municipal regulations, the employees of the municipality. This answers your question. The second thing you asked. If for a particular act you fix a fine, he knows for example that whatever he does must give 50 leva. But when we have the hypothesis of relapse, of recurrence of the infringement, then a higher fine may be required for the same act. The other option is to write down that if it is the first time, one-how many you are, if it is the second time, one-how many you are and to make the Law even heavier. So, Mr. Kazak, with the fine of 50 to 200 leva. We give the authorities who will apply the Law the opportunity to determine the burden and to impose the penalty on it. I think I gave a very precise answer to the questions you asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u170	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Yankova has the floor for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u171	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kazak, you're right. What my colleague Svilenski proposes is for example the municipality of Sofia to say that for the playground will fix the fine with its regulation. In the green area will be, say, 150 leva. In the municipality of Gorno Nownishte or Treklyano it is said that the fine will be 100, 50 or 200 BGN. That's according to the city council's view. By putting them in the corridor from 50 to 200 lv. And when they write their ordinance, let's give the municipalities the opportunity to be owners of their territory, to wear what you have developed as a theory. To be held responsible. We say: "Be stricter, obey the laws, but manage and manage your municipalities. If we put them in this corridor, they can fix: for the playground one, for the green area, for the sidewalk another. There are cities and settlements where no fees are collected and the fine is not to interfere with traffic on the roads. However, there are places where I listened to Mrs. Fandakova or a statement by her team in the capital for no more than 50% of the cars can be found where to park even on the streets themselves. We don't have a solution yet. Until 1989 it was one thing, now we have another type of standard, a way of life. If we want to be useful to municipalities, let us vote on Svilenski's proposal to specify it a little bit and give the municipalities the right to be owners, to make decisions and to collect their fees. Today's debate is, we're dissatisfied, you're a little in control. You have to be stricter! But let them do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u172	Thank you. Mr. Bayraktarov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Kazak, if you had read the Law, first of all, you would have seen that nowhere in the Law is parking or stopping on sidewalks, playgrounds and landscaped areas. Moreover, if you had seen the proposal made by the Patriotic Front, where it is no accident that I repeat, we are commenting on the legislative act in force in the Law on Structure of the Area. We know that there are an awful lot of irregularities mostly in the city of Sofia. It is precisely the application of this part of the Law on Construction of the territory that will force municipalities to finally take up their respective areas, because there are adjacent areas to the housing blocks that are assigned for this particular purpose to be able to park people. Besides, we shouldn't bury our heads, but we should accurately and clearly say and define another problem. I would ask you: do you know how many garage cells in residential buildings are rescheduled for shops, for restaurants, and I don't know what instead of parking cars, as provided in the Law on the Construction of the Area? This is the essence of the moment, and that is why the discipline measure of 200 BGN, which we offer, is what this is all about. At some point, the citizens themselves will insist that the municipality do its work on the Law on Structure of the Area. That's the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u174	Thank you. It's a hole, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I very much liked the last line that reminded me of the saying: I am saying to you daughter-in-law, think of sister-in-law, or to beat the bull, to remember the donkey. Pretty much punishing citizens with the high fines of 200 BGN to think of the municipality to do its job. That's logic. Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, if you want to get municipalities to do their job, do not do it by punishing citizens. Make the municipalities directly, directly, not indirectly, by fined citizens to make the municipalities do their unfinished work. Otherwise, I agree with your finding that municipalities must do their job not only under the Law on Construction in the Area, especially to find an effective mechanism to collect these fines, to collect the penalties imposed. This would have the most disciplined effect on intruders, as you mentioned when you know that living or dead will have to pay the fine, as it is in the West, has a much more disciplined effect than if you write him a fine; tomorrow you can also write him 500 levs. He knows he won't pay, and in three or five years he'll pay off the statute of limitations, of course, no disciplinary effect will ever occur. For Mr. Ivanov's line, I don't see him here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u176	Go on, Mr. Kazak. Anyone who wants to listen will listen.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u177	In principle, my thesis is to apply a completely different logic. The logic of importers, as we have been accustomed so far, under one denominator are all possible compositions that have nothing to do with each other and let the authority judge the particular case. No! What we propose is to differentiate more in the Law. For violations so much for parking on the sidewalk so much for parking in the green area so for parking on the playground so much for parking on the children's playground so much. From then on, why not introduce the relapse as already classified as the Criminal Code? The one who stubbornly continues despite his initial fee, say from 50 BGN, to park on the playground, naturally, the second time will be imposed on him in double or triple size. This is an opportunity and it should be provided in the Law. He needs to be clear in advance what he is facing, and not in this way the fine is total from 50, to 200 BGN, and let the body judge and succumb to corruption pressure on the part of the intruder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u178	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. That was a doppelganger. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u179	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In the debate they have spoken, I would say, quite reasoned proposals and I will allow myself to make an accidental analysis of some of the proposals in connection with the existing regulation in Sofia Municipality. On the first question, yes, the sidewalks to the description parks and so on should be included. There's a public need for that. It's a violation. Yes, perhaps the arguments of colleague Kazak are correct about the ratio of this violation to other violations.. parking in a playground or in a park. Yes, parking in the playground or park is more flippant, it is heavier. Therefore the proposals are given an opportunity, as Mrs. Yankova said, a tape from 50 to 200 BGN. I will also allow myself to express my personal opinion that the proposal, Mrs. Yankova's doubts regarding the beneficiary of the fine, have some reason. Given that there is such a hesitation, we should look for a clearer legislative expression, so I will make an explicit proposal for an editorial supplement. I propose you in art. 178 is to create a new sentence second with the following content: The budget is collected for the benefit of the respective municipal budget. The point of this proposal is, first of all, that we do not have a collision between the budget of the State Department of Interior and the corresponding municipal budget. In the multitude of municipalities there is an administrative criminal practice in relation to the establishment of the violations and issuance of acts and criminal decrees in question. But let's make it clear. The logic of this revenue and this fine to go to the municipal budget is as follows: as it concerns municipal infrastructure, which is served by funds from the municipal budget, it is appropriate to collect this fine from the municipality. Here I will make a brief explanation of the current regulations of Sofia Municipality. The media and the public, commenting on how much the fine was growing - BGN 200 - did not really realize that in Sofia Municipality the ceiling of this fine is now BGN 500. It's five hundred leva, guys! This fine is imposed by the Sofia Inspectorate, according to the Municipal Parking Regulation. Yes, and also the administratively punishing authority, when determining the amount of the fine, has the opportunity to assess whether this is a first infringement, whether it has been remanded. That's what they do. Also, the administrative punishing authority has the opportunity to take into account the gravity of the infringement, let's say, its flagrantity. In this situation, considering the proposals as they have been made, I will allow myself to say from the stand that we are damaging the Sofia Municipality in its criminal practice. I mean, you all say, "Sofia is not Bulgaria." Yes, that is true, but how many years in Sofia has the amount of the fine of BGN 500 acted.? Dear Mr President, I would also like to support, to a certain extent, the proposal of my colleague Svilenski, because it does have some logic in it. I'm not sure about the editing, though.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u180	You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u181	Mr. Chairman, this is my proposal. [[Passing it to the President.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u182	Are you proposing?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u183	I am making an editorial proposal for a new sentence second in the text of art. 178f.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u184	Thank you. It's all clear. Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u185	Thank you. Dear Mr. Kirilov, I allow myself to give you a reply in relation to what you explained about the fine in Sofia Municipality. It's not 500 leva, it's 50 to 500 leva. The practice of the Sofia Inspectorate is not to impose 500 leva, so it did not come to sanctions. In relation to which way the infringement is required, the fine is also graded. Since you are also making an editorial proposal, I propose to the proposal which I have tabled, where we say that the municipal council determines the fine, because otherwise the municipal council leaves it distant. We determine a fine, we say that the DMV should respect it, but the money must enter the municipal budget. Technically, imagine a car parked in the park by which a policeman walks, whether you think he will take an attitude, provided even the fine he needs to collect will not enter the budget. So let's separate them somehow, you're lawyers, you'll tell us how to do it. I'd also like to point out something else. Maybe the big fine, the big penalty should be for breaking the sign, entering the park. Because now it's gonna turn out that I can drive my car into Boris' Garden, make my rounds all day, and maybe I'll be grounded with 20 or 30 BGN. for breach of the code "Entrance of the requested'.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u186	No parking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u187	No parking. If I'm parked, you'll have to fine me 500 leva. So we need to see afterwards, when, God forbid, we go to work on the new Road Traffic Act, these are the preventive measures. When we forbid entry, when there is a big fine, there is no parking after that. My reply to you is to my suggestion to add your editorial that money goes to the municipal budget and becomes an ideal text that will suit all citizens. Thank you, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u188	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Second line? I won't. Mr. Kirilov, come on in for the douche.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u189	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague Svilenski! Yes, the correct correction was from 50 to 500 leva. However, I also need to correct myself and withdraw the editorial supplement made in para. 2 as in the existing text of art. 167, para. 4 of the Law what I have offered you is explicitly written in relation to where the fine goes in the municipal budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u190	You're withdrawing your offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u191	Mr. Chairman, I'm withdrawing my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u192	Any other speeches, fellow Members? Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u193	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, the Law and this article that we are dealing with at the moment is quite complex and, as you can see, we are entering into some debates that are extremely essentially. However, given that there is to a large extent a similarity in the position and differences in some of the details, I suggest that we leave this article alone for now, let us sit down and discuss it as people once again and then continue to discuss it, because otherwise we will enter into one, as the previous said, accidental proposals, without any logic in the proposals. My proposal is to postpone this point until we have clarified the positions and then move on to its vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u194	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. A motion to postpone. - What's the line? I won't. Speaking, ladies and gentlemen? I won't. I am closing the debate on § 3 by importer, which in the version of the Commission becomes § 5. Dear colleagues, according to art. 66 of our Rules of Procedure, first of all, we vote on the motion for rejection, second of all, the proposals for postponement, and then the editorial proposals in the order of their submission. I am referring to the version proposed by the Commission for the relevant paragraph. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Ramadan Atali...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u195	There's a continuance procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u196	Procedure? This procedure shall be voted in second. I was also quoting the rules. We are voting first on the motion for rejection and then on the proposals for postponement. [[Noise and lines.]] Please, I was quoting you. 66 of our Rules. I shall put to the vote the proposal for the removal of § 3 by importer, which shall become § 5 in the version of the Commission, made by the National Representative Ramadan Atalay. 110 MPs voted: 24, against 50, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposal of the MP Mr. Ermenkov to postpone the discussion of § 3 by importer. Please, voting mode. They voted 114 MPs: 47, against 53, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u197	Colleagues, I propose a re-voting procedure, not for anything else, but for reason, so that we can really adopt a text that is like people, and not just text and argue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u198	Thank you. Please, re-election mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u199	That's no reason to overreact! He must challenge the vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u200	Such compromises, Mr. Ivanov, are made very often. The idea is clear. It's a re-vote. Vote 109 MPs: 44, against 51, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. We move on to editorial proposals in the order of their entry. First of all is the proposal of the National Representative Georgi Svilenski the number in the Commission's version to become Mr. Svilensky, is that correct? Thank you. Voting mode. They voted 109 MPs: 25, against 57, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for Mr Svilenski's second proposal, namely the addition of a second sentence to the Commission's version, which reads: The minimum and maximum amount of the fine for infringements committed on the territory of a municipality is first determined by the relevant Municipal Council. Voting mode. They voted 114 MPs: 37 against 4, abstention 73. The offer is not accepted. We're moving on to the next proposals. Mr. Ramadan Atalay and Mr. Kazak proposed to drop the words in the Commission's version on sidewalks. Please, voting mode. They voted 113 MPs: 25, against 42, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. And the second proposal of the National Representative Ramadan Atalay: the Interval for the fine from 50 to 200 should be replaced by 50 BGN. Please, voting mode. They voted 114 MPs: 26, against 39, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. No other editorial proposals were made. Mr. Kirilov withdraws his proposal. None of the editorial proposals voted on were accepted. We vote on the text proposed by the Commission for the version of § 3 by importer, which becomes § 5. They voted 115 MPs: for 94, against 14, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u201	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u202	Statements under § 4, supported by the Commission, which becomes § 6? I won't. We are voting § 4 by importer, which becomes § 6 supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: 96, against 2, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u203	Proposal from the MPs Ivan Valkov and Pavel Hristov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 7: "7." In § 12 t. 2 of the Additional Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Road Traffic (SW, p...) are amended as follows: "2." Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u204	Statements? I won't. We are voting on what the Commission has proposed to create § 7. Please vote. They voted 105 MPs: 94, against 2, abstention 9. The Commission's proposal to create § 7 with the corresponding text has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u205	The name of the section: The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u206	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the importer for the name of the division "Concluding provisions." Vote 92 MPs: 84, against 5, abstention 3. The text of the importer for the name of the division is adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u207	According to § 5 a proposal from the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov, Valeri Simeonov, Christian Mitev and Iskren Veselinov. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 8, and shall propose the following version: ................................................................................... In the Law on Local Taxes and Fees (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 6 is created. 3: The use of municipal sidewalks, squares and street lanes or parts thereof as areas for paid and free parking shall be governed by a regulation of the municipal council.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u208	Mr. Karadjov, I would ask you to submit the proposal, which is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u209	Paragraph 5? according to the proposal of the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov, Valeri Simeonov, Christian Mitev and Iskren Veselinov: "Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: .................................................................................. In the Law on Local Taxes and Fees (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 6, para. 1 point (b) is amended as follows: (b) for market use, shopping, fairs and sidewalks; The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u210	Statements? Stanislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, since there have been debates in the Commission, I allow myself to make an editorial amendment to the proposal that we have tabled, namely: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 2 after the word "governance" shall be added "including" under para. 3.................................................................................. 2. The creation of para. Three o'clock, three o'clock, three
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u212	Mr. Ivanov, one moment. The proposal was submitted by the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov, Valeri Simeonov, Christian Mitev and Iskren Vesselinov. [[Noise and lines.]] The other is the text of the Commission. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u213	"2." The creation of para. 3: The use of municipal sidewalks, squares and street lanes or parts of them as areas for paid and free parking under the Road Traffic Act is determined by a regulation of the Municipal Council. Dear colleagues, since the main text was introduced by me, my colleague Lilkov and a group of MPs, there wrote the following: The use of municipal pavements, squares and street sails or parts of them as areas for paid and free parking is governed by a separate law and regulation of the Municipal Council. That is why we propose that it should be recorded:.......................................... and not a separate law..................................................................... and not...................................................... and That's the change. And because of this change, we also make the first point after the word 'right'. 3.................................................................................. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u214	Wait! One more time! Once again, the Commission's main text... [[Noise and lines.]] The text of the Commission is currently: The use of municipal sidewalks, playgrounds, street lanes or parts of them as areas for paid and free parking.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u215	In accordance with the Road Traffic Act, it is determined by a regulation of the municipal council.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u216	And it's not settled? [[Heckling]] Spell it, because this is where you wrote it down. [[Noise and lines.]] It is determined by a regulation of the municipal council. [[Noise and lines.]] Statements? There's a line. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u217	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! With the change of one bill we are touching, I will say again, in four bills, which I have protested in the Commission, but the ruling majority has decided. Look, what is being adopted at the moment: we are doing text in the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. In this text on the Local Taxes and Fees Act, we say that municipal councils adopt regulations where they define the territories on which there will be paid or unpaid parking. It undoubtedly forwarded it came from the Road Traffic Act by arranging the fees and how this organization was created. I'm very sorry, and I haven't had a chance to procedure. Mr. Kirilov was misled, as under art. Article 16 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 99, this was about collecting fees by decision of the Municipal Council for another. Today we are in poor legislative behavior towards municipalities. I propose that this text remain as proposed by the Commission, because what if we put it under the Road Traffic Act? Who? Every bill that's very aggravated, the lawyers here know, with a lot of extra things it weighs. Now, if you want to write:.. under the Roads Act, local self-government, municipal property, state property. Well, it's normal for the mayor to make his own regulations to comply with all of this. We've done something bad, which, hopefully, we'll come back to in time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Any other lines? Mr. Bayraktarov. There are no other lines. To speak, the public representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues! Mr. Ivanov, you have properly entered into a discussion in the Commission and very correctly noted and in fact you have merely intuitively started repeating the text that we at the Patriotic Front have proposed. Yes, very precisely Mr. President said to you: "These proposals have already been made. Because, honourable Members, it is precisely the text that we have proposed from the Patriotic Front that is the text that is in line first with practice, and secondly is an absolutely pragmatic text, which will support Mrs Yankova's statement, does not aggravate the legislation. In fact, do you realize that by adding only the Road Traffic Act we enter some extremely heavy collisions, for example with the Law on Construction of the territory and art. 56? I ask you: how will the municipalities tomorrow place places for the so-called "temporary" sites? Here, Mr. Valkov knows, he was a municipal councillor in Burgas. The temporary sites are given, for example in the Sea Garden. And now under this Law we will almost forbid municipalities and small businesses to work anymore, only that the Law on Road Traffic does not work and there is no application in the Sea Garden, for example in Varna, in the city of Burgas, because things are quite different. If I have to return you to the original text of art. 99 as well as Art. 178 is not a coincidence for this reason we had set out proposals to have consistency in the philosophy of this law. He has to follow some philosophy. Now you are convinced of how we enter the Coliseums and how the National Assembly is struggling and risking to pass a law that is some Frankenstein. Colleagues, that's why I got up to talk to you about it. If we followed the philosophy that we have made from the Patriotic Front.........with the practice and with the Bulgarian legislation in force, we would not now fall into such a Coliseum. If there was enough time, I'd even ask for a break because we're on the verge of doing something that would cause extremely serious damage. Extremely serious! Colleagues, anyone who understands matter will agree with me. Here Nayden Zelenogorski is a mayor who has been ruling for a long time, understands perfectly what I'm saying. The colleague Slavcho Atanasov is a mayor, Mrs. Dora Yankova. I am sure that all of them, as mayors, will agree with what I say, because legislation must also think about the autonomy of municipalities, and not just mechanically adopt texts, because, you see, they must be adopted! Not like that, guys. We're bad at this. That's not good, I'm telling you. I need to seriously consider my proposal and really postpone the adoption of this text so that it can be considered. Otherwise we risk doing serious damage, serious damage, believe me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u220	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u221	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bayraktarov! We've fallen into unnecessary pathetics again. True, we obviously miss the city councils very much. However, as a former regional governor, I will allow myself to revise, say, the municipal perception of the regulations. [[Laughter, excitement.]] We were very careful about this norm, we were very careful because there is a complex exclusion. For this reason Mr. Ivanov made an explicit editorial proposal. This editorial proposal was agreed for several days with the directorate, with the National Assembly referees, to ensure that we accurately cover all the hypotheses. We have not thought about the sea gardens in Burgas and Varna, but I guarantee you that they are excluded from the proposal for the new para. 3. In order for there to be no doubt, I will allow myself to read the sentence as is the editing that we propose for para. 3: The use of municipal sidewalks, squares and street lanes or parts thereof, as areas for paid and free parking under the Road Traffic Act, is determined by a regulation of the municipal council. ▪ Only these hypotheses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u222	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Second line. "The People's Representative Tasco Ermenkov. Third line. "The People's Representative Stanislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u223	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, you're wrong! You're wrong to use future time when you say we're gonna make Frankenstein. Use past tense we did it, we did it, unfortunately. The evidence of how clever and consistent it is to think about making laws is what happened just a few minutes ago, a meeting of half the committee under the leadership of the President of the National Assembly to make proposals. Is this the result of deep thinking during the work on the preparation of the Law?! You're wrong! We're not gonna do it, we're gonna make Frankenstein out of this Law, we made a turlu gourmet, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u224	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Third line. "The People's Representative Stanislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u225	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I'll be very brief. Mr. Bayraktarov, look, if there wasn't the text I'm proposing right now, your hypothesis would be correct. However, since we are inserting a text that is only under the Road Traffic Act, this excludes all the hypotheses that are troubling you. Do you understand? That's why we're doing this. If there were a separate law left, your hypothesis would still apply. In this case, in order not to get what you're talking about, we introduce the Road Traffic Act to rule out all the other hypotheses that are bothering you. That's it. I think I've answered very precisely the concerns of others replicating before me colleagues and you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u226	Thank you. Duplica.. People's representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ermenkov, you are probably right, since some of the texts at second reading have already been voted and adopted. You are wrong in terms that the law becomes effective when it is adopted in full, with a date for its action. If there is no date after it is adopted and printed in the Official Journal and three days after the printing starts to work. Frankenstein has not yet been created, but formally, given that the texts we define as Frankenstein have already been voted on, I would agree with you. Regarding the lines of colleagues Kirilov and Ivanov, I am convinced that you have acted in good faith, but I am convinced that you too are not sure of what has been done. There's a simple reason. Mr. Ivanov, the Road Traffic Act does not regulate free parking spaces. Such texts in this Law do not exist.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u228	That's not true. They exist.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u229	They don't exist! Moreover, I will still have to explain to you and say that, when it comes to an order of municipal property, public property, this is where the Law of Municipal Property comes into effect, which has very precisely and clearly regulated how and in what way this order of municipal property takes place. I put the tape back for a reason to remind you exactly what we had proposed when changing art. 99 of the Road Movement Act. If you had accepted the proposals on the Patriotic Front, as many colleagues have spoken motivatedly on them, we would not have come into this conversation at all and had all these confusions. That's the truth. I don't know, but rest assured, the consequences will be very soon visible and clear. Then we'll talk and go through the second, third or fifth laws to clear the mess. I do not like to give examples, but I will nevertheless give you an example of the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. With the misunderstanding that happened in February this year, we should have now explicitly changed the misunderstanding in art. 3 of the law. That's how it's gonna be, and now mark my words!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u230	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov, Valeri Simeonov, Christian Mitev and Iskren Veselinov, which the Commission does not support. Vote 95 MPs: 15 against 12, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Stanislav Ivanov, namely in § 8 to create a first point to read: "1." In para. 2 after the words "governance" shall be added "including" under para. 3.................................................................................. 2. The creation of para. And after the free parking is added by the Road Traffic Act is determined, finally it ends with the order of the municipal council. Isn't that right, Mr. Karadjov? That's the offer, isn't it? Please vote on the proposal made by the MP Stanislav Ivanov. 90 MPs voted: 76, none, abstention 14. The proposal of the MP Stanislav Ivanov is accepted. And now we are voting on the Commission's text on § 8, which is taking the following form: ................................................................................... In the Law on Local Taxes and Fees (prom., SG...), in art. 6 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 2 after the word "governance" shall be added "including" under para. 3................................................ 2. The creation of para. 3: The use of municipal sidewalks, squares and street lanes or parts thereof, as areas for paid and free parking under the Road Traffic Act, is determined by a regulation of the municipal council. Please vote on the version of the Commission for § 8 together with the newly adopted proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Stanislav Ivanov. They voted 91 MPs: for 83, against 1, abstention 7. The text of Paragraph 8 of the Commission report, together with the editorial proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Stanislav Ivanov, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u231	Proposal from the MPs Ivan Valkov, Pavel Hristov, Atanas Tashkov, Tsvetomir Mihov and Claudia Gancheva. It's under §6. And the exact same proposal by the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov, Valeri Simeonov, Christian Mitev and Iskren Veselinov for dropping § 6. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 6 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u232	Statements? Please vote on the Commission's proposal to drop § 6. Vote the Commission proposal. Vote 89 MPs: 78 against 4, abstention 7. The Commission's proposal to reject § 6 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u233	According to § 7 a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Willi Lilkov, Milena Damyanova, Irena Kotseva and Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 9: ..................................................... In the Law on Roads (prom., SG...), in art. 20 para. 5 is amended as follows: The management bodies of the operational programmes may conclude agreements with the Chairman of the Management Board of the Agency on the implementation of projects financed by European Union funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u234	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create § 9, together with the text that has just been read to you by the reporter. Please vote. Vote 85 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 2. Paragraph 9 on the Commission proposal was established, together with the text, in accordance with the Commission report. It was adopted................................................................................................. The next item on the agenda is: PROJECT DECISION TO DETERMINE THE COMMISSION FOR THE AUDITING OF THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS OF THE COURT OF AUDITORS 2011, 2012, 2013 AND 2014 The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance will introduce you to her President Mrs. Menda Stoyanova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Can I ask for a procedure first? Please put to the vote my procedural proposal the time limit for proposals between the first and second reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, which we adopted today at first reading, to be until 13 May, Wednesday, including.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u236	Please, voting mode. I put to the vote an extension until 13 May under the Law, which was read to us by Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u237	Abort the deadline, I suggest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u238	Please vote. Vote 89 MPs: 85, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Stoyanova, continue with the Commission report, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u239	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance Draft Decision on the designation of the Commission for the audit of the Court of Auditors' annual financial accounts for 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014, No 554-02-48, submitted by Diana Yordanova on 28 April 2015. At an extraordinary meeting held on 29 April 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that draft decision. The draft decision was presented by the National Representative Diana Yordanova, who noted that representatives of all parliamentary groups were included in the composition of the Commission. As required by art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on the Court of Auditors included two graduate accountants. After a discussion, the Committee on Budget and Finance with 15 votes for the Council, with no objection, proposed to the National Assembly to consider and adopt the following draft for: ? RESPONSIBILITY? laying down the Commission for the audit of the annual financial statements of the Court of Auditors for 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 65, para. 1 and 2 of the Law on the Court of Auditors HAS DECIDED 1. Sets out an eleven-member committee to audit the Court of Auditors' annual financial statements for 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014. 2. Sets out the composition of the Commission as follows: The President: Diana Ivanova Yordanova MP from the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB; Members: Evgenia Danylova Angelova MP from the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB, Georgi Chenkov Turnovalyski MP from the Parliamentary Group BSP left Bulgaria Petar Pandushev Chobanov, Member of Parliamentary Group Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Korman Yakubov Ismailov, Member of the Parliamentary Group, Mr. Emil Dimitrov Simeonov, Member of Parliamentary Group, Patriotic Front, Mr. Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center, Mr. Borislav Mihailov Borisov, Member of the Parliamentary Group, Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Party, Todor Stoyanov Krastev Asen Kostov Kitov 3. The Commission shall draw up reports on the reports referred to in paragraph 1. 1 to be presented to the National Assembly by 30 September 2015 for consideration.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u240	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Would anyone like to take note of our so - read report? I can't see. I vote on the draft decision setting out the Commission for Auditing the Annual Financial Statements of the Court of Auditors for 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014, as read to us by the President of the Budget and Finance Committee Mrs. Stoyanova. Please vote. 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We move on to the next point of our program for this week: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CONVERSATION OF THE VETERN LECARS IN BULGARIA. We have been presented with a report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food. He will introduce us to her chairman Mr. Rumen Hristov. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a bill amending and supplementing the Law for the word organisation of veterinarians in Bulgaria, No 554-01-80, submitted by the MPs Maria Belova and Valentin Vassilev on 21 April 2015. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 22 April 2015, discussing the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the word organization of veterinarians in Bulgaria, No 554-01-80, submitted by the MPs Maria Belova and Valentin Vassilev on 21 April 2015. The Commission's work was attended by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food: Dr. Laura Djuparova, Director of the Department of Agricultural Chains, Valentin Chambov, Head of Department, and Todor Todorov, Senior Expert in the same Directorate. The bill was presented by the National Representative Valentin Vassilev, who stressed that the proposed change is related to a procedure for infringement against the Republic of Bulgaria concerning non-compliance with provisions in the Bulgarian legislation introducing minimum prices of services provided by veterinarians exercising veterinary practice with the provisions of art. Art. 49, Art. 56 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as well as with art. Article 15 16 of Directive 2006/123/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 on services in the internal market. In this regard, the Bill is proposed to eliminate the possibility that the National Council of the Bulgarian Veterinary Union can determine annually the amount of minimum prices for carrying out veterinary medical activities by registered veterinarians. The Law does not create new administrative structures and does not increase the costs of existing structures for its implementation. The financial justification prepared shows that the change will not result in a direct and/or indirect impact on the state budget. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food supports the Bill. In the subsequent discussion, it was stressed that the change does not concern the prices of the measures under the programmes for the surveillance and eradication of animal diseases and the state preventive programme which carry out veterinary doctors carrying out veterinary practice. Following the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 12 votes in favour, without the opposition and 5 votes in abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the word organization of veterinarians in Bulgaria, No 554-01-80, submitted by the MPs Maria Belova and Valentin Vassilev on 21 April 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u242	Thank you, Mr. Christov. There is no report from the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. I'm opening the debate. Would anyone like to make a statement? There are no speakers. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote the bill amending and supplementing the Law on the word organization of veterinarians in Bulgaria. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. With this, the bill on the word organization of veterinarians in Bulgaria, No 554-01-80, submitted by the MPs Belova and Vassilev on 21 April 2015, was adopted at first reading. Mr. Hristov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u243	Dear Mr President, I am making a procedural proposal that the bill be voted on at second reading in this plenary sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u244	I shall put to the vote the procedural motion to vote on the bill at second reading. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. With this, the bill is allowed to vote at second reading. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Law on the Word Organization of Veterinary Doctors in Bulgaria is hereby amended and supplemented. I propose that we vote on the name of the Second Voting Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u246	Honourable Members, vote. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u247	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I suggest: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is Please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u248	I shall put to the vote § 1 by importer. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. Thus, the proposal of the importer under § 1................................................................................................ 12, para. 1 point 9 is canceled, accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u249	Dear Mr. President, I suggest we accept the name "Concluding provision." In the Final provision, there are: ..................................................... The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-07.u250	Please vote on the Final provision and § 2. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. With this, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the word organization of veterinarians in Bulgaria was adopted at second reading. Honourable Members, parliamentary control announcements on 8 May 2015, point 2 of Friday's meeting: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Issues Meglena Kuneva will answer a question of the MP Slavi Binev. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivailo Kalfin will answer three questions from the MPs Kalina Balabanov, Nikolay Alexandrov, Sultanka Petrova and Georgi Gokov. 3. Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev will answer two questions from the MPs Volen Siderov and Yavor Haytov. 4. The Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov will answer three questions from the MPs Lyubomir Vladimirov, Petar Slavov and Stanislav Stanilov. 5. Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova will answer seven questions from the MPs Svetoslav Belemezov. Four questions, Ilian Todorov, Petar Slavov and Georgi Kadiev and two questions from the MPs Magdalena Tasheva and Svetoslav Belemezov. 6. Tourism Minister Nikolina Angelkova will answer four questions from the MPs Desislav Chukolov, Krassimir Jankov, two questions, and Meglena Alexandrova. 7. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer 19 questions from the MPs Maya Manolova, Dzhevdet Chakarov and Mehmet Ataman, Stefan Kenov, Zhelyo Boychev, two questions, Petar Kanev, Cornelia Ninova, Ivan Slavov Ivanov, Petar Slavov, Nikolay Alexandrov, Dora Yankova, Manol Genov, two questions, Husein Hafizov, Mariana Georgieva, Georgi Andonov and Daniela Saveklieva, Irena Koceva and Ivan Valkov. 8. The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev will answer seven questions from the MPs Kalina Balabanova, Borislav Iglev, Mariana Boyadjieva and Stoyan Mirchev, Dora Yankova, Villas Lilkov, Cornelia Marinova two questions, and two questions from the MPs Boyka Marinska and Svetla Bachvarova, Mariana Boyadjieva, Valeri Zablyanov and Georgi Tarnovalyski. 9. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer 19 questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Dobryn Danev, Dimitar Delchev sq. two questions, Boris Yachev, Stefan Kenov, Svetla Bachvarova, three questions, Cornelia Ninova, Manol Genov, Ivan Kirilov Ivanov and Rumen Hristov, Nikolay Alexandrov, Slavi Binev, Maya Manolova, Villa Lilkov, Georgi Kadiev, Mihail Mikov, Petar Kadiev and Borislav Iglev and one question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Dora Jankova. 10. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer nine questions from the MPs Slavcho Atanasov, Slavi Binev, Petar Slavov 11. The Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova will answer 12 questions from the MPs Desislav Chukolov, Krasimir Yankov s.two questions, Cornelia Marinova, Georgi Bojinov, Borislav Iglev, Alexander Metodiev, Martin Dimitrov, Filip Popov, Slavi Binev, Georgi Svilenski, Kalina Alexandrova and Nikolay Alexandrov. 12. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer three questions from the MPs Jayhan Ibryamov, Lyubomir Vladimirov and Willi Lilkov. 13. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer four questions from the MPs Willi Lilkov, Nikolay Alexandrov, Krasimir Yankov and Petar Slavov. 14. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer four questions from the MPs Volen Siderov, Petar Slavov, Manol Genov and Vladimir Toshev. 15. Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov will answer two questions from the MPs Georgi Andonov and Krasen Krastev and Miglena Alexandrova. 16. The Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov will answer one question from the MP Maya Manolova and two questions from the MPs Chavdar Georgiev and Philip Popov, Petar Kostadinov Petrov. 17. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva will answer two questions from the MPs Ercan Ebatin and Slavi Binev and one question from the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to six questions from the MPs Petar Slavov, Nevin Hassan, Krasimir Yankov, Manol Genov, Mihail Mikov and Krasimir Bogdanov; - of two questions by the MPs Svetoslav Belemezov and Manol Genov and four questions with a written answer from the MPs Dora Yankova s. two questions, Claudia Georgieva, Ivan Ivanov and Dimitar Zhelev; - the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev of a question by the MPs Georgi Tarnovalyski, Valeri Jablyanov and Mariana Boyadjieva; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to two questions from the MPs Vili Lilkov and Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Culture Vezhdi Rashidov to a question from the National Representative Boris Yachev; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to two questions from the National Representative Georgi Bozhinov and to a question with written answer from the National Representative Valentin Ivanov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova, to two questions with written answer from the MPs Krasimir Bogdanov, Svetla Bachvarova, Dora Yankova and Georgi Turnovalyski. In the absence of the country in the Parliamentary Control meeting, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov and the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski will not participate. Due to a prior commitment to international participation in the Parliamentary Control Meeting, Minister of Health Petar Moskov will not participate. Tomorrow the meeting is opened at 9.00, continuing with the Project Declaration on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the surrender of Nazi Germany in World War II and on the occasion of Europe's Day. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
