ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. I suggest to your attention a draft programme for the work of the National Assembly for the plenary week 27 "May 29, 2015: 1. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure. (General draft, based on the laws adopted in the first vote on 25 March 2015 with importers Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 3. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act. Importers.. Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. 4. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Structure of the Area. Importers "St. Petar Slavov and a group of MPs " first draft legislation; second draft law "The Council of Ministers. 5. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Promotion of Research. Importers suppose Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. 6. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Criminal Court for Relocation in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria to witnesses of the Court of Justice. Importer of the Council of Ministers. This is intended to be the first item for tomorrow's plenary session Thursday, which will be seen behind closed doors due to the existence of official secrecy in the ratification bill. 7. Draft decision for the establishment of a Temporary Commission to discuss the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The President of the National Assembly Tsetska Tsacheva. It is envisaged as point two for tomorrow's meeting "Thursday." 8. Report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 30 June 2014 and Report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 July 31 December 2014. 9. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, scheduled for Friday at 9.00 p.m. Once again, there is 16.27 a.m. time needed to answer all questions and questions raised to the members of the government. Voting mode. Vote 152 MPs: 134 against 3, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. The proposals under art. 50, para. 3 of the Staff Regulations Mr. Slavov and Mr. Dimitrov have proposed a Bill for the Commercial Register. It is included in the Programme and is already part of our adopted decision for the weekly program. The next proposal is by the MP Desislav Chukolov, who proposes that a bill for amendment and supplement of the Penal Code be included in the upcoming weekly program of the National Assembly, No 454-01-13, dated 27 October 2014. Importer "supplier" Volen Siderov and group of MPs. We're listening, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! As you have heard, we submitted our proposal for amendment and addition to the Penal Code on October 27, last year, upon the establishment of this National Assembly. What is this? In fact, with this proposal of ours, with this change, we want to regulate inevitable self-defense. What does a Bulgarian citizen do when someone he has not invited enter his home? As you know, I hope you follow closely the debates in this House, these changes to the Penal Code have already been examined, but have not been voted in this House. There have been proposals from other parliamentary groups and other colleagues to change this Penal Code. The debates on these proposals and on the other proposals for a change in the Penal Code are almost exhausted. Our proposal is that this point should be the first point on Friday and that we should look at it here in plenary and finally make this decision.............. is there any right for the Bulgarian citizen to defend himself when someone invades his home by force? In short, I'll tell you how we want it to sound. 12, para. 3 which regulates exactly this matter: "There is no exceeding the limits of the inevitable defence if harm is caused to the attacker is done by the defender within the boundaries of the property or property which he has defended or is present in them and has defended himself or third parties, and in cases where, within the boundaries of the property or property, the person has taken advance measures against the possible attack which led to the injury result for the attacker.' This proposal meets a violent reaction, but in fact think about what is happening in the village of Garmen. Let us make sure that every Bulgarian citizen can adequately defend his or her property, family and dignity. I expect you to support our proposal first item on Friday to be the changes to the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. Just one explanation for the plenary. This bill, colleagues, goes in a five-pack. It was brought to the attention of the plenary, the debates are taking place on it. Here are the Bills of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms for the Deprivation of Crimes by Authoritarian regimes, including the revival process; here is GERB's Law on Transport Crimes, so they are in the General Report of the Legal Commission. The House should bear that in mind in the forthcoming vote. I put to the vote the proposal of my fellow Members from Ataka to include the bills for amendment and addition to the Penal Code in our weekly programme. They voted 133 MPs: 32, against 22, abstention 79. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Chukolov. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u4	Madam President, as you have said, this proposal includes a package of bills for the other parliamentary groups as well. Do not abstain from your own proposals for a change to the Penal Code. As I told you, the debates on this topic are almost exhausted, but we have to vote on this. When it comes to inevitable self-defense, just to tell you, to share with you. The Supreme Court of Cassation (VCC) has said that the proposal of This is because of such statements by representatives of the VCC, because of such votes, that in Garmen and elsewhere in Bulgaria they say: "Well, there is no country! " Why would there be a country?! There's no country! You can hear that anywhere. But if there is no country, let's make sure that every Bulgarian citizen can defend himself. Now we're looking at the NTAC Act and how high-ranking statesmen will be guarded. What should we do?! Let us change this law and send NSO to every Bulgarian citizen who feels threatened. That's not gonna happen. So let us give the Bulgarian citizens the right to defend themselves in an adequate manner and, again, I say to you, to defend their property, their families, their dignity. I hope with this vote you will defend your dignity.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. Revoting, coworkers. They voted 130 MPs: 37 against 28, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. The next time proposal in the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall be read in conjunction with art. 110 of our Rules. Mr. Volen Siderov proposes to hold a hearing this week of the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova on the current situation in the municipality of Garmen. Mr. Chukolov will defend the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u6	Madam President, honourable Members, as you have heard, referring to the Rules, we would like a hearing to be held by Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova. This lady, who was elected interior minister a few months ago, one of the main arguments at the time was that she was a woman, we all see and know this, but she is still an interior minister. We want and insist that she come to the Bulgarian National Assembly to inform us, the MPs, what is really happening in the municipality of Garmen. What measures are adequate, inadequate the Bulgarian police have taken to ensure peace, calmness, that the law in this municipality is respected, in these three villages that are currently subject to talks, to discussions in the media, publicist shows, news and so on. By the way, every Bulgarian citizen is also interested in this. Therefore, from Ataka, we believe that it is extremely correct, on the ground and during this time, this proposal of ours to come here, the Minister, so that we can listen to her, she can inform us of what is really happening. In this way, we should all be with adequate information when we speak in the media, when it comes to this, there should be no speculation at all. We also have the opportunity to ask questions to which she will answer here under the relevant parliamentary procedure. You know, many times in this Chamber we have made such hearings, on which each parliamentary group, apart from expressing its opinion, but most importantly, the relevant minister informs the Bulgarian citizens. At the moment, in this situation, the more information we have about this case, the better.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. Voting regime, fellow Members. They voted 146 MPs: 61, against 37, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u8	Dear colleagues, do not think that by abstention in any way we will sweep this problem under the carpet and we will make sure it does not exist. This is the most appropriate place for the Minister to come and inform us. We're not gonna give her a boo, like in Garmen County. In an adequate way, in the parliamentary procedure to ask our questions. Let's find out if there are any detentions, whether there are rapid proceedings.. Information that is needed by the national representation and the Bulgarian people. Please don't hold back and support this offer of ours!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u9	Revoting, coworkers. They voted 146 MPs: for 65, against 49, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal in the order of art. 50, para. 3 is Mr. Georgi Gokov from BSP left Bulgaria, which proposes to include the first vote of the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Labour Code with importers Petar Kanev and a group of MPs. Mr. Gokov, come in, you have the opportunity to defend your offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose that as a item on the agenda a bill for amendment and supplement of the Labour Code, No 554-01-24 of 6 February 2015, with importer Petar Kanev. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that for the second time, we are proposing that this bill be put on the agenda. The first time you accepted the proposal, but it did not come to an examination, as it did not reach the time on the weekly agenda. I now allow myself again to propose that this Bill be put on the weekly agenda, as consensus has been reached in the committees in which it is examined and supported by all the parliamentary groups. The reasons are that the proposed measures are aimed at the compulsory implementation of certain actions, activities and obligations, which in turn will alleviate the conditions of business primarily for micro-enterprises and small firms. At the same time, I expect that this will also reduce the corruption pressure on business. The proposals are briefly the following: to waive the obligation of micro-enterprises and small firms to prior written notification of the Labour Inspection for extended working hours, to prior coordination with trade unions temporary establishment of part-time, to issue internal rules; to increase from 3 to 7 days the period of notification to the NRA for each fixed-term contract. And something important, expected by the majority of Bulgarian society: we offer a refund to the employer's right to terminate the employment contract with the persons who have acquired the right to pension for insurance service and age. In this way, workers in employment and employment are equal. The law on the Ministry of Interior and the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria also provides for an age limit for those serving under these laws. Finally, the Bill will have no negative financial impact on the fissure. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It is expected to increase the efficiency of the business for easing the result...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u11	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. We understand your point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u12	Colleagues, please...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u13	I am voting on the proposal to include this item on the agenda. In this procedure, there is no opposite opinion. Vote 156 MPs: 108, against 3, abstention 45. The motion is accepted. A few messages. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 20 to 26 May 2015: Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code with importers Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. A bill to supplement the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals with importers Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Physical Education and Sports with importers Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports is the lead. The Committee on Education and Science and the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government are accompanying. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Political Parties. Importers: Martin Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code with an importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on political parties with importer: Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens through state power and local self-government. Importer: Daniel Kirilov and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints is the lead. Draft Law on the ratification of an amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services to support the strengthening of functions and capacity building in the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the achievement of optimization of the costs of achieving compliance with Directive 91/271/EEC on urban waste water treatment between the Ministry of Regional Development of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Establishment and Development of 4 April 2014 with an importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management and the Commission for Monitoring the Activity of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission are accompanying. Draft amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers. There's a distribution coming up. Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. The importer is Georgi Kadiev. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Bill amending and supplementing the Law on guaranteed claims of employees in the event of the employer's bankruptcy. Importers: Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Budget and Finance are accompanying. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria with importer Tsetska Tsacheva and a group of MPs. There's a distribution coming up. Annual Report on the Activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition 2014 The Commission for Protection of Competition is an importer. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. On 25 May 2015 the National Assembly was granted the adopted Resolution by the Economic and Social Council on the topic of a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on legal persons for the purpose of doing business. By my letter, the material was sent to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Complaints of Citizens and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On May 26, this year, with an I.V. No 520-00-24 in accordance with the Order of Art. 261a, para. 5 of the Law on Electronic Communications The Commission for the Protection of Personal Data has provided the National Assembly with summary information under art. In accordance with Article 2 (1) of the Law on Electronic Communications, the Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The material is provided to the Standing Committees whose portfolio is embedded in the document and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Before we begin the points of the weekly programme, a statement on behalf of the parliamentary group on the Patriotic Front. The word is Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u14	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On May 23, 2015, Bulgaria was shaken by another clash on an ethnic basis caused by a trivial domestic scandal. In the center of the village of Garmen, Blagoevgrad region, several hundred gypsies from the neighboring district of Kremikovtsi The authorities of law enforcement who arrived at the scene failed to prevent the beating, which, happily, did not end with deaths. Once again, the legality and elementary norms of public conduct are brutally violated by a self-forgotten crowd of Gypsies, and once again the motherland faces the severe problem of the cohabitation of large groups of people who violate the laws of the country against another group of our compatriots whose only fault is that they require compliance with the law by all. Once again, we are witnessing the powerlessness of the state. The risk of escalating tensions and ethnic opposition is more than obvious. The ghost of Katunica and the mass anti-Roma protests threaten again the fragile stability of our country. It is urgent for us as politicians to clarify the deep genesis of the event and to take all necessary measures to resist attempts to destabilize. What is the undisputed language of the facts preceding this event? The so-called "Kremikovtsi" quarter consists of illegal buildings built for ten years, which do not meet the basic hygiene and construction requirements. Main merit for the creation of this neighborhood has the managing municipality since 1999 local Derribey Ahmed Bashev. As a representative of the DPS and other parties, he purposely attracted and accommodated several hundred Gypsy families from other regions of the country to secure their votes in support of each subsequent choice. When the RDNC issued an order in 2011 to remove illegal buildings, the municipal council adopted a decision to tolerate the same without having such a legal right. However, the fuzzy wording is sufficient for civil servants not to finish what they started. The current mayor Minka Kapitanova again from the DPS promises from the screens of all TV stations that she will take the necessary measures to comply with the law, but shyly surrounds the question why she has not taken the necessary action so far and has allowed the escalation of tension and the outbreak of the current conflict. The long-term strategy of the DPS for the separation and opposition of Bulgarian society in the name of their narrow party aims to increase their participation in power. As a result, however, not only in Garmen, but in hundreds and thousands of settlements, the result of the policy of separation and suggesting the Gypsy ethnicity that it has only rights and not obligations to society, leads to a sense of impunity and claims to society, and hence to brutal violation of the country's laws. For those living in the district of Kremikovtsi, the theft has become a major livelihood and the attacks on foreign property. Property has become daily. There is no unrobbed house in many other villages and neighborhoods of Bulgaria. The feeling of impunity and the belief that society is obliged to serve them, to pay their bills because they are from minorities, leads to serious and terrible crimes such as the killing of elderly people in their homes, the tragic case of 23-year-old Veronica Zdravkova from Veliko Tarnovo, the pensioner from Pravets, the non-stop attacks on teams of the Quick assistance in the Gypsy neighborhoods, regardless of the promises to take the necessary measures by the Ministry of Interior and many, many others. It is precisely this brutal and daily violation of the laws of the country and the sense of defencelessness and abandonment by state institutions, for those who pay their taxes and comply with the laws of the country, that is the reason for the deepening separation of the nation and the increasing risk of mass unrest as we witness in Garmen. For this reason, one of the main tasks laid down in the Coalition Programme is the program with domestic crime. This task is one of the priorities the Patriotic Front has set as a condition for supporting the current coalition government. Priority is given to measures to curb domestic crime, police presence in settlements with increased concentration of violations and video surveillance in critical areas. This priority is supported by four specific objectives, but unfortunately during the last 7-month period of government management, the government has carried out nothing of the recorded stable management programme in this priority. The demands and demands of the Patriotic Front for taking measures to implement this section, put forward at both the Advisory Councils and the weekly meetings of the parties supporting the government, have been unsuccessful. Along with the problems accumulated by the previous governments, we cannot help but stress that this inaction is precisely the cause of cases such as Garmen, Katunica and many others. Unfortunately, on a number of the other priorities of the Patriotic Front is crucial to us, seven months after the establishment of the government nothing has been done. The Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code submitted on 8 April 2015 has not been examined in committees for a month and a half. Moreover, yesterday it was clearly stated that GERB is against the changes in the Election Code. This presupposes the upcoming elections, which will be manipulated and once again do not reflect the real preferences of the Bulgarian voter. Although on a proposal from the Patriotic Front on 21 January 2015, the Public Procurement Act was amended in order to build security facilities at the Turkish border.. Priority 20.5.6 of the Programme, at present, four months later not only has not been built nor a meter of it, but the buildings built during the Oresharski protection facilities fell from the wind. These and a number of other outstanding commitments are contrary to what was announced exactly seven months ago here, from the National Assembly's stand, the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front Programme, and are reason to state that the support and patience of the Patriotic Front are at an end at present. For this reason, we strongly insist on the urgent implementation of the following tasks: First, the immediate removal of all illegal buildings in the territory of the district of Kremikovtsi. The village of Marchevo, the municipality of Garmen, for which the removal procedure has been completed; the engagement of the institutions to complete their legal obligations in establishing the legality of the other buildings and bringing the norms of the Law on Construction of the territory into effect. Secondly, taking urgent measures to control domestic crime, which terrorizes huge areas of the country. Thirdly, consideration in committees and voting in plenary of the texts proposed by the Patriotic Front in the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code. In case the mandatory vote is not adopted without a referendum, the Patriotic Front insists on adopting the text for active registration and increasing sanctions against buying and selling votes. Fourth, the construction of security facilities along the border with our southern neighbour and recovery by 1 July 2015 of the damaged areas thereof. Fifthly, without increasing the price of electricity and taking administrative measures by energy companies and the Ministry of Energy to end large-scale abuse and theft in the industry. Sixth, completing the necessary legal changes to limit illegal logging and timber exports. Seventh, solving the institutional problems related to the Bulgarian communities abroad. The adoption of the changes proposed by the Patriotic Front in the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria is imperative. We believe that the conditions listed above are fully feasible by 1 July 2015 and are not related to exceptional unforeseen budgetary expenditure and can be implemented in the name of the urgent solution of the serious problems we are facing. The restoration of trust in the country's governance and the successful completion of the mandate of management, in favor of Bulgaria and in the name of Bulgaria. We declare that the support of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front to this governance is not unconditional and is directly linked to the implementation of the priorities set out in the Programme for Sustainable Governance. Failure to comply will result in the government's support being terminated after the above deadline. Thank you for your attention. Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause from the Patriotic Front.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u15	Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u16	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The reason for this Declaration is the events in the municipality of Garmen. We from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria will not participate in the common choir of irresponsible politicians, we will not expose conspiracies, according to which someone stirs up conflicts with electoral goals. We will not justify lawlessness, but we will uphold and oppose self - dealing. We will strongly oppose the political drama and the ethnization of the situation, but we do not intend to bury our head in the sand and pretend that what happened was a simple accident, that it is a domestic matter that the storm will pass by itself. Garmen is not a precedent, we remember Katunica, but Garmen is a symptom of the disease our society suffers from. And this disease has a name for fear! The Bulgarian is afraid of his own country. He is not calm in his own home, he is afraid not only that he can be robbed on the street, he is afraid that he will be out of work, that he can be cut off from electricity, that his child has no money for lessons or that he will crash at the prom. He's afraid his basement was broken into or his car was stolen. In the context of total insolence in the presence of entire territories, which are de facto without rules, it is only a matter of time before fear turns into aggression, the victim of multiple crimes to advance, to decide that he can rely only on himself and then, ladies and gentlemen ruling, there will be no need for judicial reform, because street justice does not need a Supreme Judicial Council and does not care how many chambers he is drawn up and what mandate he is elected for. The Bulgarians have the right to demand security from their country and it is obliged to provide it to them. We therefore insist that the fight against the so-called domestic crime be raised to absolute priority and that the measures be taken immediately. But Garmen brings up another question. In 2015, it is not normal for tens of thousands of citizens to live in the conditions of gypsy ghettos, in illegally built houses swimming in waste water, without education, without work, completely excluded from social and social life. What other than crime can be born in such an environment, how can it be lived near it? In 2015 the decade of Roma integration ended and, I think, we do not need to evaluate its results. For many years the state has completely abdicated from the gypsy neighborhoods by letting them turn into vacuum spaces, where only the local factor has authority, which organizes the raids and provides lists of the UNN before the elections. We are all responsible for this, and together we need to think about how to deal with this problem. Today, it is easy to destroy illegal houses in the neighborhood of Kremikovtsi, but if a lasting solution is not found, they will simply be built elsewhere. We can no longer accept Roma as part of the landscape as a annoying cart on the road we are in a hurry to pass. We need to understand that their misery condemns the society of poverty and puts citizens at risk, and solutions there are and they are contained in two simple words: work and education. Yes, it is difficult to talk about Roma unemployment when work is not available for others, and wages are low. How can we instill gypsies in schools, when Bulgarians also leave prematurely? These are the real questions that raise recent events. A consensus should be sought around their answers. In their resolution are the real reforms. The case in Garmen is a warning to all political forces and this warning has its specific dimensions. Firstly, the agenda imposed by the government and its supporting parties is far from meeting public expectations and fears. The stability mantra is increasingly facing increasing instability, and the talk of reforms is increasingly difficult to cover up the lack of change. Secondly, the situation of minorities and interethnic relations deserve much more attention than sporadic clashes with parliament, swaying between extreme resentment and excessive laxism. The irresponsible or provocative talk from the parliamentary tribune has no excuse. Thirdly, Bulgaria needs a government to make decisions, not helplessly try to avoid them in order not to lose support from one party or another. The calmness of the Bulgarian citizens cannot forever be a hostage of understanding in the multi-faceted coalition, or in other words, we need a strong and just state! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u17	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the Chairman of the Group Mr Lutvi Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The tension in Garmen brings to the fore a systemic, chronic problem of Bulgarian society. Political responsibility suggests that we should not be committed to commenting on the consequences of the visible manifestations of the chronic problem, but rather commit ourselves to the root cause of such conflicts, because the Roma issue is strategically important for the Bulgarian state. The parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms advocates the understanding that the first reason for the tensions in Roma neighborhoods is in the social exclusion of the Roma community. I stress that everything stems from the social exclusion of the Roma community in Bulgaria. The correct definition of the root cause will also give us the responsible state position to overcome it, and this is integration, this is inclusion. The Guremen case, previously the Katunica case, would continue with chronic tensions in other neighborhoods, shows that this is a problem, a very important problem of common political responsibility, if you will, of party responsibility, but the problem itself is not colored partyly. And in this sense, there is nothing more irresponsible than the persistent suggestion we hear from the populist direction in Bulgarian politics, presented by the Patriotic Front and the Reformation Block, that almost the problems have been generated in the municipality of Garmen because it is governed by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Dear ladies and gentlemen, if so, how do you explain the huge conflict that we have witnessed in Katunitsa, where the mayor is not from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? I could also continue with examples of tension outbreaks in a number of other places where the Movement for Rights and Freedoms does not govern. A targeted integration policy is needed. And here the DPS Parliamentary Group once again raises the question that nothing else has a higher integrative resource than education. When we rightly put the issue of equality before the law, we must be aware that equality before the law as a principle cannot be applied selectively because it ceases to be a principle. Equality before the law means the state. Besides requiring equal respect of the law by all its citizens, to guarantee also the same rights, at least the general conditions in which the Bulgarian citizens should be placed. I will give you an example of the opposite direction of this principle as an obligation of the state, along with the fair requirement that every Bulgarian citizen comply unconditionally with the law. In the Law on People's Education there is a very important provision which obliges all Bulgarian citizens to ensure the presence of their children in forms of preschool training and education in kindergartens after the age of 4 years. I ask and we will continue to ask the DPS until we have an answer to the question: how many families in the district of Hope is access to kindergarten, how many of the thousands of Roma children there? None at all. Does the Bulgarian State guarantee the uniform application of the Law in this case? No! And this issue is fundamental because if compliance with the law is a high manifestation of responsible civil behavior, we will have to agree that responsible civil behavior is also a function of education, of civil education, which is also acquired in school. More than 80% of dropouts are Roma. Would you agree at last that dropping out of school before it's a problem of the school degree is a problem of the pre-school degree? Only Roma who have not had access to kindergarten have dropped out of school. So, shall we solve this problem? Do we have the will, or are we just playing politics on the principle of blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah You're not offering any solutions. The only responsible solution to the system problem is proposed by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. This is a national program called Children's Garden for every Bulgarian child. And in solving this problem, we will solve the other chronic problem of our educational system. The educated Roma will be an integrated Roma, a Bulgarian citizen who will respect the laws because he will have raised a culture for the need to pay his taxes, to comply with the laws in order not to need the cliché. The outcome of the situation is not in insulting expressions such as this... we heard it yesterday and is not in expressions such as.................................................................................. we heard it this morning........................................................................................................................................................... Ladies and gentlemen! The ruling majority, the cabinet owes an answer to the question: will the proposal of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms be accepted for a national program for providing access to kindergarten for every Bulgarian child, including Roma children? We have no other solution. There is no other solution for the phenomenon of crime, because whatever efforts you make to present crime as an ethnic phenomenon, as an ethnic problem, crime is not an ethnic problem. Perhaps in some communities the phenomenon manifests itself in a more concentrated form, but that does not mean that it is ethnic. The fact that we have a concentration of domestic crime in certain communities shows that we are obliged to see the root cause. I end up with what I started with. The first reason is in social exclusion. Phenomena is social, not ethnic. The decision must be a matter of common political will, of state-owned attitude. Otherwise, if we have to party the problem, we have something to say. I turn to those who did not refrain from replicating me today. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I graduated, Madame Chairman. The first organized attempt at party control of Roma is in a project you may have forgotten. Do you remember the project "Rommy for strong Bulgaria"? I'm graduating. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u19	We move on to a statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Ataka. Mr. Volen Siderov is the chairman of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I cannot help but take the floor, as when I have written on the topics of the Roma or Gypsy issue, many of the MPs in this House trying to be good speakers, Haber have not spoken in their mother tongue, from this issue and have done something quite different, but not politics. [[People from DPS and GERB leave the hall.]] I am related to this topic long ago, long before this National Assembly, before the previous or earlier, or even earlier. You make me like Krastyo Pastuhov once upon a time to say, "Why tempt me, hypocrites?" Why are you talking about problems that have been created by you as problems that need to be transferred to a healthy chapter? Why do you deny the fact that there is a civil war in Bulgaria? For years! Me and my colleagues from Ataka Party since it existed, we have warned about it, pointed it out and said it. What did we get? Lawsuits! Here is my colleague Notev, let him tell you the judge condemned me for defamation because I said his name from here for letting Roma killers into the Botevgrad case, the village of Litakovo. I told the truth, and I got bad, and I got crooked. Ten years in a row media such as bTV, Nova TV and SKAT called me anything but a fascist, extremist and so on because I pointed out this problem, which you here now arrange to talk about one after the other, who, as the poet can, of course, as the poet says, who can do as he is gifted, who by, who less. Now you're repeating things that I've been saying for 10 years from the political tribune and 15 years before that from the publicist tribune. Now I see media that are foreign on property, which are foreign, and since they exist they have been closing their eyes to this problem, they say there has been ethnic tensions. Good morning! I'm talking about bTV and Nova TV. I am talking about two media that play an extremely dangerous role in the Bulgarian public space, as they are foreign media and act on foreign orders. I'm talking about televisions like Skat, who have been spitting on me for five years because I told the truth about both Gypsy crime and Islamisation in Bulgaria and colonization and the robbery. And I was the bad guy! You're the good guys now, aren't you? You're the good guys when you say you're finding something that's already a fact and it's already hard not to say impossible to go back because the process has gone so far that you can't bring it back. What conditions, what muscles show here? They're trying to inflate the so-called "patriots" to put conditions on the coalition partners they've embraced. My dear, sweet honey, politically unofficial, let me tell you that in these municipalities you are talking about now and waving your fingers, do you know how those same Roma are voting in camps... I hear Mr. Simeonov wants to send them to camps. I imagine this painting, the coalition government headed by GERB, sends Roma and Rumyana Bachvarova to camps, the Minister of Interior, with a whip in hand, as a modern-day Ilsa Koch, sends them to the camps, in thin ranks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u21	Mr. Siderov, please, we have clarified the vocabulary in this room to be consistent with the expectation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u22	Madam President, I quote here your coalition partners who explain to the media how they will make camps.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u23	Quotes outside the plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u24	That would solve the matter, according to them. However, no one reacts to these racist statements. Nobody's doing what I've been doing for dozens of cases for telling the truth. Nobody sketches with these. Why? Because they're the ones allowed in. They should be admitted to the Bulgarian politics patriots to replace the real ones. They're the fakes that have to replace the real ones. In the village of Garmen, the whole public is dealing with, to tell you what the results of the 2013 elections are. Four to one in favour of GERB against DPS. Four to one! People vote for GERB. Who? Well, it's the same rum we need to move out of there now. Why are they voting for GERB? To say the patriots, they are coalition partners of GERB. To say how charisma fascinates them Mr. Tsvetanov, who, by the way, leads the project. It is high time to report where the millions of Roma inclusion went. In 2014 they voted three to one in favour of GERB. Three to one! Same rum. So they love GERB, they love GERB more than DPS. That's what the facts say, here they are, these are samples from the CEC. [[Shows documents.]] When the facts speak, the gods keep silent there is an old fairy tale. When the facts speak, those who speak from the stand must also comply with them and adjust their statements to the facts, because otherwise they become ridiculous and pathetic. I do not believe in the inflated muscles of the Patriotic Front, which now puts conditions on GERB. These muscles are full of steroids. The steroids of these same gypsy voices because this coalition, which currently rules, came to power with gypsy voices. The last time, and in 2011 Do you remember the sacks? Since they were in power, they have ruled with these voices. How are they gonna get them? How will they destroy their illegal buildings? That's not gonna happen! That's how they are. [[shows hands]] In symbiosis. The ruling coalition and all parties in it, without exception, received gypsy votes for these elections to replace those who really have a vision of how to solve the issue, and it can be solved by statesmen, not Nazis, not Gestapos, but statesmen. That is why I have spoken many times and we have a program for this solution, but first there must be a country. But imagine it, if the Law and sanctions are applied now, your Euro-Atlantic masters will immediately come and say: "Hello, please! You can't do this! You can't tear down illegal buildings! These people where will they go, where will these poor people go? " - Well, yes, they will continue not to pay their electricity because they have no money, they are poor. Well, let's send them to you! Did you know that when we entered the parliament in 2005, the Swiss ambassador called me for a conversation, wanted to know what kind of party "Attack" was and sat here in one of the halls, he asked me a few questions. He says, "Ah, the Roma?" I say, Mr. Ambassador, you are from a democratic state, a very high standard, do you want us to send you 100,000 Roma and you to integrate them? We will follow you, and we will take notes only. " - He laughed, the man, and said: "Okay, let me ask you another question. What happens when Bulgarian Roma go to France, the Netherlands and so on? Well, they're coming back! Why are they returning them? Why does the great civilized cultivated West, the Euro-Atlantic West bring them back here? These are Bulgarian citizens! Why does the West discriminate against them? When did you ask this West? Never! When did you ask this question "GERB," reformers, patriots, ABB and those you now rule? You never asked them, and you won't ask them because you don't dare. Because you know very well that you knocked down a few illegal buildings of Roma, and Uncle Soros came and yelled at you. And you're all depending on Uncle Soros, reformers, Gerberas, patriots, ABB and others you now rule. There's no way out of this trap, and you have to admit there's no way. The only way is to break up with Euro-Atlantic colonialism, build a country where all citizens really have rights and obligations, and when they violate their obligations, they get sanctions. Yeah, kindergartens, schools, great, only they don't want to go to kindergartens and schools. You know that, right? In order to make them, there must be sanctions, i.e. fines or corresponding sanctions. I've never said anything to him, unlike Mr. Simeonov, who is president of the Patriotic Front and talks about concentration camps and no one makes remarks, no one is leading him on cases because he is the eligible patriot, and I am the ineligible one. I'm talking about statehood, not camps. I am talking about how really programs should be made, but they should be guaranteed by a healthy state. Where's the state now? Why do you refrain, dear patriots, from coming here, Mrs. Bachvarova, the Minister of the Interior, and from saying what happened in Garmen? Why did you abstain? Why didn't you let her come? Here's the hypocrisy! Here's the difference between words and deeds! In words we are very strong, in words we are very determined, but in deeds we are just like this, twisting like a stomping worm and disappearing somewhere in the endless cracks of power. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u25	The expressive means, Mr. Siderov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u26	I know now that this racket we heard today...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u27	Let's measure our means of expression.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u28	...will end with handing out new posts, deputy ministers' chairs. [[the President signals that time has run out]] , and maybe with a new head of Customs from the Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u29	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u30	But the Roma, the Gypsy question will remain because it takes real courage to solve it, not fake. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attack" and screams: "Bravo, bravo!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u31	Thank you. Procedure in the manner of conduct...... please come in, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u32	Just to warn you, if you allow this man to use insults...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u33	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u34	...and obscene attacks, like he's already done...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u35	The rules are right in front of me. I'm watching very closely. Thank you, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u36	Higher, higher! Scream, scream, scream, scream, scream, scream, scream, scream,
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u37	Mr. Kasabov, I didn't give you the floor!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u38	The white powder how? How's the white powder?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u39	Mr. Kasabov, I didn't give you the floor for dialogue with the MP. I gave you the floor for a procedure in the manner of my conduct. [[Heckling]] Colleagues, please, no tossing!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u40	Madam President, I'm taking procedure in the manner of conduct. I ask you very much that such MPs with poorly expressed acting talents do not play melodramas in the style of Comedy del arte. We've just seen enough! [[Replys from "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u41	What remark do you have for me, Mr. Kasabov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u42	One more thing, I'm ending up with a sentence that I think could be the point of all that we've seen and heard. It is the following sentence: the great Putin and the perhydrolite poodle is his prophet.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u43	I'm removing you from this courtroom, Mr. Kasabov, for this statement. [[Applause by "Attack" and screams: "Bravo!".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u44	That's hashlash behavior! Can you do that?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u45	Moving on to: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CALLED PROCEEDING CODEX. Report for the second vote Mr. Daniel Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, if possible before the report, admission procedure in the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Krasimir Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u47	Voting mode. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Let the guests in. Mr. Bayraktarov has the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u48	Thank you, Madam President. I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, as you have just abused the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like you to clarify and explain by which Rule of Procedure you have just removed colleague Valentin Kasabov from a meeting, since he has not made any personal insults, nor has he uttered offensive qualifications, but used a metaphor? Since when do the National Assembly and, in particular, you, as President, allow yourselves to abuse the Rules of Procedure and impose punishment for metaphor? I would like you to explain which member of the Rules of Procedure you have just violated, have you removed colleague Valentin Kasabov from this sitting? More than that! How long will this Rules have a bilateral application because just a few weeks ago a MP here was throwing paperwork at me and for him there was no punishment, another MP from the DPS allowed himself to preach as if the National Assembly were a mosque and to preach, Islamism and no one punished him, and now for the metaphor you started punishing? I would like to know exactly which member you suspended colleague Kasabov from.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u49	If you tell me on what grounds third parties, outside those personally concerned by the Rules of Procedure, are entitled to receive an explanation, I will also give it to you. There is a deliberate procedure, Mr. Kasabov is entitled to exercise it and challenge it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u50	I'm pointing out to you: in the manner of conducting procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u51	Read the Rules to the end, you have only reached the first texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u52	And you read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u53	Mr. Kirilov, please proceed with the second reading of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u54	Mrs. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on General Law No 553-03-46/02.04.2015 of the Law adopted on 25 March 2015 amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 554-01-34, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 13 February 2015 and a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 554-01-35, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 17 February 2015, drawn up on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the CPNS "Renewal and Supplement of the Criminal Procedure Code" (prom., SG No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2009 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and repealing The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u55	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of the Law and § 1 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: 72, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u56	According to § 2 there is a proposal from the MPs Dimitar Delchev, Boris Stanimirov and Petar Slavov. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 after the words. The following shall be added to the list: 350, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 350, para. 3.................................................................................. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The cases of crimes of general nature committed by judges, prosecutors and investigators, by other persons with immunity, as well as by members of the Council of Ministers, unless the special rules of Chapters 30 and 30 apply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u57	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, this amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure is extremely important. I ask you to pay attention to him, even though my proposal is rejected in the Commission. I think we can find a way out of this here today. What's this about? I suggest you drop the t. 2. The current text in the Code of Criminal Procedure states, I quote by memory that the crimes committed by persons with immunity are indicted as the first instance of the Sofia City Court. This amendment shall propose the sentence "Unless specific rules of Chapters 31 and 31 apply.' When this text is adopted in the Code of Criminal Procedure in force, it is taken into account that the Sofia City Court is the largest court of this degree, it is considered to be the most independent and should be tried by the persons with immunity who have committed such acts. Why is it now possible for some of the cases to go to trial? note one chapter is for military courts. Who are the persons indicted to the military courts? It's just the military magistrates. If a military magistrate commits a crime, the case should be tried on the court-martial. You see, it's a nonsense because it means being charged with the colleagues he worked with. They'll recuse themselves. The other chapter concerns specialised courts. Is a specialized court better professionally secured? Do better lawyers work there? There are even opinions in the other direction. In my opinion, it is good to drop this text, remain the current conviction and all cases for persons with immunity to be tried only on the city court, which is perceived normally in the professional community. Please support this proposal, because I think it is useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u59	Thank you. Any lines to Mr. Atanasov? I won't. Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u60	Madam President, honourable Members! Why do you really have to edit this text? It is known to fellow lawyers that there are contradictions in the practice regarding the conviction concerning investigators, prosecutors, and it is in the light of whether the crimes committed outside the so-called "functional immunity" or by service should be dealt with in the Sofia City Court or dealt with in the courts of the crime scene. Even as a matter of fact, the Supreme Court of Cassation has a procedure for issuing an interpretive decision to align this practice. When discussing the proposals in the Commission, the Vice-President of the Supreme Court of Cassation said that, naturally, if this legislative change is adopted, which we are proposing here and adopted by the Commission, it will not come to such an interpretive decision. As for the cases indicted to the special court, I see nothing dangerous about that. For me magistrates must be equal and give justice by law, whether they are in the Sofia City Court or in the specialized court. In the specialized court are the cases which concern the execution of serious criminal offences and participation in organized criminal groups. Please bear this in mind and support the proposal as adopted by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u61	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Dimitar Delchev, Boris Stanimirov and Petar Slavov. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 101 MPs: 12, against 18, abstention 71. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Atanas Atanasov. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 98 MPs: 14 against 21, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 2 in its version on the Commission report. They voted 102 MPs: 92, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u62	According to § 3 there is a proposal from the MPs Dimitar Lazarov and Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3 in the second sentence after the word "sysmen', the words "and motivated' are added. 2. A new para is being created. 4. The prosecutor who received the instructions under para. 3, may object to them before a prosecutor from the higher prosecutor's office. 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u63	Statements? Mr. Kazak, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I note that in the current text of para. 3 is indicated that instructions can also be given by prosecutors from the higher prosecutor's office. For example, a prosecutor from the district attorney's office may give instructions to a prosecutor from a district attorney's office. We now assume that the prosecutor to whom these instructions have been given may object again in writing to the prosecutor of the above prosecutor's office. Against the instructions given by a prosecutor by the prosecutor above can again be objected to by the prosecutor of the same prosecution. I think that's a bit of an understatement. I think the objection should be addressed to the administrative director of the higher prosecutor's office. If the instruction is given by a prosecutor of the District Attorney's Office of the District Attorney's Office, he should be able to object to the District Attorney's Office, not to a prosecutor of the District Attorney's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u65	Do you make an editorial proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u66	Yes, I am making an editorial request to replace the prosecutor from the above prosecution to be the administrative head of the higher prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u67	- What's the line? Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u68	Thank you, Madam President. The line is short and concerns the interpretation of the expression, which is not perfect from the language side. We have a kind of second-degree hotter. The above degree is above, and another degree is higher, the higher prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u69	The recording is pointless, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u70	Well, that's the tape.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u71	The above is defined at the next level as one step above. If you mean through a step, we should think about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u72	That's exactly what I mean. If it were immediately the upper one, it would be the upper one, and it is said the higher one. I take it the expression is not perfect, that the word in the language is not perfect.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u73	A hole, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u74	Thank you, Madam President. And now the current text of para. 3 dealt with exactly the same term as the above prosecutor, the higher prosecutor in office and the prosecutor in the above prosecutor's office. I think it is clear to all of us that it is a degree higher than the visated one, i.e. a prosecutor from the district attorney's office to be given instructions from the district attorney's office, and not from the appeal office, that is clear to everyone. Therefore, I propose that it be to the administrative head of the higher level of prosecutor's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u75	Mr. Kazak, if you see the difference by importer with the version of the Commission, it is said: "In the order of service of the above-mentioned one, it is the one from which the instructions come. The omission of the corresponding.. turns out that it is about the above... in support of Mr. Kirilov's thesis.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u76	Well, if that's how it's interpreted, I'm not sure it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u77	Any other speeches? Mr. Kazak, are you withdrawing the offer? No. Are there any other statements? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mr. Kazak's proposal for an editorial addition to the text. He's offering para. Let's hear it: The prosecutor who received the instructions under para. 3, may object to them before the administrative head of the above prosecution. Isn't that right, Mr. Kazak? We vote on Mr. Kazak's proposal. They voted 98 MPs: 19 against 11, 68 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 3. They voted 93 MPs: 77, none against, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u78	According to § 4 there is a proposal from the MPs Dimitar Lazarov and Daniel Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 60 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. They're creating an al. 2 and 3: The authority which took the measure under para. 1, informs the structures of the Ministry of Interior. (3) Compliance with the obligation under para. 1 is controlled by the structures of the Ministry of Interior. The prosecutor and the court shall be informed of any violations of the obligation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u79	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Dear colleagues, speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. We are voting § 4 in the version of the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 79 against 1, abstention 7. The amendment to § 4 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u80	According to § 5, there is a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MPs Dimitar Lazarov and Danail Kirilov to drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 5 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u81	Speeches, honourable colleagues? I don't see anyone who wants to. First, we are voting on Mr. Atanasov's proposal, which the Commission does not support. They voted 82 MPs: 12, 12, abstention 58. The motion is rejected. We are now voting on § 5, which the Commission proposes to reject. They voted 83 MPs: 69, against 1, abstention 13. The Commission's proposal to reject § 5 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u82	According to § 6 there is a proposal of the MP Atanas Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Lazarov and Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the The Court of Justice shall determine the address at which the house arrest is to be carried out. A subsequent change to the address of the implementation of the measure shall be authorised by the prosecutor in pre-trial proceedings or by the court before which the case is pending. (4) The prosecutor shall inform the bodies which control the implementation of the measure accordingly of its taking and of any subsequent change to the address of its implementation. (5) Compliance with the prohibition under para. 1 is controlled by the structures of the Ministry of Interior. The relevant court and prosecutor shall be notified of any detected infringements of the prohibition. (6) Compliance with the prohibition under para. 1 may also be controlled by means of electronic monitoring means under the order provided for in law. (7) For the duration of the measure in pre-trial proceedings shall apply art. 63, para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u83	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. Please, honourable Members, we are voting § 6, which becomes § 5, in the version of the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 79, none, abstention 7. The proposal for § 6, which becomes § 5, in the version of the Commission, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u84	According to § 7 there is a proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov: In § 7, Article 7 (b) and (c) and (d) of the Act of Accession of the Republic of Austria, Article 7 (c) of the The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Lazarov and Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 68 the following amendments and additions are 1. In para. 1 in the second sentence, the words.............................................................. are replaced by........................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. A new para is being created. 2: When the prohibition under para. 1 has been confirmed or imposed in the proceedings following a conviction, the defendant may be removed from the documents of identity under art. 13, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents and it is issued replacement documents according to the order provided for in the Law. 3. Previously on AMC's... 2, 3 and 4 become respectively para. 3, 4 and 5. 4. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): Five o'clock. 5. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7 and in it the words are said. 1 and 5' are replaced by "al'. 1 and 6...........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u85	Statements? Mr. Atanasov, come in. You have an unsupported proposal from the Commission, which you will probably argue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the contrary, I am withdrawing it because, since the last version is used the term "Maritime," this means that the so-called replacement documents "could come into use when there is a processable opportunity" at this time there is no such in the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u87	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. I understand that you are withdrawing the unsupported proposal from the Commission. Replies to Mr. Atanasov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 7, which shall become § 6, in the version of the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 88, no objection, abstention 7. The proposal for § 7, which becomes § 6, is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u88	Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Lazarov and Danail Kirilov for the creation of § 7a. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... In Chapter 7, Section II is created art. 73a: suppliers for costs in the case Art. 73a. (1) At the request of the prosecutor, of the victim or of his heirs, or of the injured legal person in the pre-trial proceedings, the relevant first instance court shall take measures under the Civil Procedure Code to secure costs incurred and awarded in the case. (2) The Court may impose the lien also on the money and securities presented as a guarantee, except where their withdrawal is granted for the benefit of the State on the basis of art. 66, para. 2. (3) In the proceedings the court shall take the measures under para. 1 and 2 at the request of the prosecutor, the plaintiff or his successors, or the private prosecutor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u89	Statements on the proposal to create § 7? Mr. Atanasov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have not made a proposal on this text because it has been submitted to a Commission meeting, but I am taking occasion from another proposal of mine under § 5, which has been rejected, and I would like to offer you this text here as an editorial because it is extremely important. What's this about? It's about para. 2 of the proposed § 7, where the court may impose a safeguard measure on the money and securities presented as a guarantee, only the following must be taken into account: under the current Criminal Code, the monetary guarantee as a measure of non-violence may be lodged by the defendant, but may also be lodged by a third party. When I have put a guarantee in favour of someone, it means that I have put my money on the line, ensuring that they comply with the measure of non-violence, that they will attend meetings, that they will not deviate and so on, and that they cannot subsequently, when the sentence is given, withdraw my money for unpaid taxes from the defendant. Do you understand? This is unacceptable, as the objectives of the non-reflection measure are quite different. Therefore, it is good to make an amendment, and I am making the following proposal: the court may also impose a safeguard measure on the money and securities presented by the accused as a guarantee of its own funds to ensure that the funds which it may have deposited by third parties as a guarantee will not be taken away in favour of the State for other duties of the accused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u91	I'm just asking you to clarify: papers presented by the defendant as a guarantee of own funds. Got it. Thanks. - What's the line? I can't see. Here's your speech, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We discussed the proposal made by Mr. Atanasov at the Legal Commission. However, as a civilist, I will say the following: I do not see any problem with the funds provided by the third party to the guarantor to provide the costs of the court's proceedings in relation to the defendant. The third party has given these funds, the third party has agreed to guarantee. Here I would apply the civil law standard: which guarantees for the benefit of a third party should be willing to lose the funds it has guaranteed, and this is not only to respect the measure of non-violence. I even set an example in fulfilling tax obligations. Any third party may fulfil the tax obligation of another person validly, and the IRS shall accept that as a valid payment, then the debtor and the third party shall be recovered. It's a similar situation here. The third person, if he pays with these funds an obligation on the defendant, then the two persons to be dealt with. But why shouldn't a criminal court and a court be equal to a tax one? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u93	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? Mr. Atanasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Kirilov, you as a civilist and I as a penalist to explain. Read in the Criminal Code I'm sure you've read it, but they're dealing with other matter. The purpose of the measure of non-reflection is the person to appear. No other objectives may be laid at the heart of the lodging of a guarantee. Since the purpose of the security lodged is for the person to appear and to fulfil this obligation, where will you direct civil claims to the security lodged? To understand the defendant and the guarantor he guaranteed. The person who has guaranteed has imported the money to ensure that the person appears, and after the person appears and fulfils his obligations under law, where will the guarantor suffer the negative consequences?! Understand that this is contrary to the objectives of the measure of determination.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u95	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Do you want a hole? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Atanasov, I don't want to go back into this dispute. This is about money guaranteeing the implementation of measures. [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov.]] Yeah, but if there's a criminal trial and an obligation, why wouldn't that money be? [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov.]] There's no obstacle to them being. Why in any other process and proceedings can these funds secure the creditor, and when here the creditor is, I would say in general... [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov.]] The victim and the other persons are listed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u97	Thank you. Any other speeches? Mr. Lazarov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Yes, the monetary guarantee shall be lodged to ensure criminal proceedings, but let us not forget that under the conditions of art. 66, para. 2 in the Code of Criminal Procedure, it may be revoked for the benefit of the State, without at all taking into account whether it has been submitted by its own means by the defendant, the defendant, or whether it has been submitted by a third party. What is it about here in the proposed amendments? You will see that the text is corrected. It is only a matter of costs in the case of the guarantee to serve as collateral. Next, you will see the bail waiver text. As regards the compensation of costs in the case, such an opportunity is given to the victim and to the civilian plaintiff. Well, I ask: if the victim has incurred costs in the case in connection with the case, the hiring of protection, the organisation of protection, what is it that the victim does not have the right to ask for the service, we are still on the text to secure, the possible future claim for those costs which he has made? In practice, what happens in certain cases? It is usually changed when an initial guarantee is lodged or a non-retirement measure is changed with a security lodged. The case passes, there is a conviction, of course, in the case of an acquittal, this cannot happen, compensation is awarded in civil suit, if any. The costs of the victim are also awarded, notice, and usually the sentence says that they are awarded for the benefit of the victim or civilian plaintiff, and they are owed to the convicted person. He's got a 5,000. lv., 2 thousand. lv., 500 lv. a guarantee, withdraws the guarantee and the victim or the State cannot be secured by such costs. That's what this is about. You will see that the text has been translated that it is not only the law of the State, as was originally an importer, but also the right of other parties in the process to ask for collateral on these claims. And if they are imported by a third party, in the order of the Civil Procedure Code, when we get to this stage, we will debate what can happen, but the aim is only to secure the costs that the State and the victim have incurred in this case. I'm saying this not so much as a legal term to make it clear what it's about. Is what to make them the costs, the defendant or the convicted person will withdraw the bail for this. Therefore, I ask you to support the import text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u99	- What's the line? Here's your first line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Lazarov, I can't agree with you. If the costs of the case are due by the defendant, that is, then by the convicted person and not by any third party, I return you again: the problem here is principled because the guarantee that is being lodged is only to secure the objectives of the criminal trial, namely the defendant (the defendant) to appear in the case and not to guarantee any other claims with that money. I don't want to discuss the matter here. There's no room for any creditor in this whole story. It's a criminal trial and a bail hearing. Let the House decide, but I'm telling you that you're wrong in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u101	Second line? I can't see. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Lazarov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will be very brief and repeat what I said at first in my speech. The guarantee may be withdrawn in favour of the State and other hypotheses. The court does not care at all whether it was imported by a third party, by relatives, by the family. Here at the moment, we are introducing another hypothesis, besides securing the appearance of the defendant or defendant, and taking charge of this guarantee to serve to secure these costs. Once again, if the defendant decides and recovers the costs, of course the guarantee will be repaid. So in the PPC and now the legislator is not interested in who submitted the guarantee. This applies. Where a guarantee is lodged, the third party must assess these possibilities. Again, this is in the interest of both the victim and the state for expenses, because in cases costs are paid, but no one pays them afterwards.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u103	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, we will vote on the proposed editorial amendment by the National Representative Atanas Atanasov in § 7 under his proposal para. 2 to read: The Court may also impose the lien on the money and securities presented by the accused by his own means as a guarantee, except where their withdrawal is granted for the benefit of the State on the basis of art. 66, para. 2. Please vote on the proposed version by the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. They voted 91 MPs: 20, against 6, abstention 65. The amendment proposal is not accepted. We are going to vote on the Commission proposal to create a new § 7. Please vote. Vote 91 MPs: for 82, no objection, abstention 9. Paragraph 7 has been accepted. Before we go any further, I'd like to congratulate our guests. Up on the balcony of the plenary are children from IV "b" class of the National School of Culture "Gorna Banya." [[Applause.]] Mr. Kirilov, continue with the texts of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under § 8 there is a proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov - § 8 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u105	Come in for a speech, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u106	Colleagues, in order to clarify what is referred to in this paragraph, a paragraph is provided for that, when taken as material evidence, where plants containing narcotics or other prohibited substances are detained, they should be destroyed. Here it is now proposed to add to this circle the excise goods. However, excise goods are not prohibited. Why do we have to destroy them?! There is a line by which the state can order with them and collect funds. It was the fastest way to order this physical evidence, because they took up a lot of space, stayed in warehouses for years and so on... Instead of improving order and the state to dispose of it more quickly and to collect funds, we are now creating an opportunity for them to be destroyed. I would say that we are creating an opportunity to abuse this destruction because it is the easiest way to make a protocol for destruction and to leave in another order. We've seen cases like this over the years. This is my consideration to suggest that this text be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u107	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, what is the matter with excise goods? In fact, this is the proposal for another change. So far, when drugs were exposed and confiscated at the border, it was clear that they were not a commodity for commercial use or for any other purpose. We kept them at the warehouses in Svilengrad, at the precincts, and then they went to the central warehouse of the National Investigation Service and the Central Customs Laboratory, and then we burned them. Samples were taken to serve the lawsuits. For many years the warehouses of customs have been clogged with stolen smuggled cigarettes, removed cheese, cheese and all kinds of other goods that are rapidly spoiling. We destroyed them. But there are goods that can't enter commercial use first because they're without Banderol, second, they don't have certificates of origin. No one would allow themselves to put alcohol on the market, no matter what cost, but it is not clear what consequences it will have. No one would have allowed themselves to smoke because there was also such a period to be given to divisions, to health establishments and so on. There was a lot of abuse. The current editing aims instead of spending huge funds to store these products, to destroy them by the decision of the prosecution, which also takes the risk, in case there are no convictions, to recover and return them. The fact is that fuel can make it a little harder. Either way, this amendment is timely. It will release the resources of the European Union not to spend unnecessary money on security for years, free them from the unnecessary obligation to hold huge areas, to pay investments for them and to engage in non-governmental activities. Of course, for all the other goods that have been confiscated, but are perishable, there is a order in which they are sold. The money is placed on a deposit and in case the court decides something, they go in the direction in which they should or for the benefit of the state. I call on you to vote on the amendment to this text and to bring it into line with the measures we have been doing so far with regard to drugs and drug trafficking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u109	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Are there any lines? Here's a line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u110	Thank you. I have no doubt about Mr. Dimitrov's expertise, but I am immediately asking you the specific question because he mentioned it as well. Imagine that as physical evidence, five fuel tanks have been detained and you decide to destroy them. Tell me what's going on with this. There's no need. We've got forensics, we've established the fitness of this fuel, the state sells it and collects its money. We'll destroy five tanks. This cigarette thing has been abused for years, and now we will create a mechanism by which I tell you what will happen. The destruction protocols will be completed, and then we will buy them in stores. That's what's gonna happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u111	Thank you. Second line? Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u112	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I also believe that it is not appropriate to destroy goods that are not rapidly corrupting. Another example can be given with cigarettes. They may later be placed undereroles and why should not be sold when they are not necessary for the needs of criminal proceedings. They will already be confiscated, and funds can come from this. Now that the Kremikovtsi has closed down, I don't even know; where will you burn such things, will new furnaces be revealed, and so on? In my opinion, it is justified to keep goods that are not rapidly spoiling and that may even be additional receipts, and not then perhaps to use them again for vague purposes or to make it difficult to prove in the criminal trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u113	Thank you. Third line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's very nice to say, "Because we didn't happen to the president, let's remove this institution." He should have a president next time we'll be careful. It's very nice to say, "Sometimes smuggling is allowed, re-selling cigarettes, going into the network, canceling the entire order." No, the order is good, it just has to be observed! Cigarettes are currently being destroyed in a Vrachan cement factory............is this the best solution or not, from all over the country to go there to destroy themselves? During the embargo, we have had cases of huge quantities of food seized. There are children's homes, there are orphanages, there are places to go. How to label this cheese fit? You see it on the label, but can you afford to poison children? You have cigarettes imported from abroad. You don't know what they're like, they can be carcinogenic, they can be quality, they can't be. Can you check every box in the lot to make sure they're fit and even with some Banderols to go? The best way is for all these goods to be destroyed, even more so that there writes the order laid down in the law. The D.A.'s office is responsible for assessing what could be held in court and ordering it to be destroyed and what, of course, to remain in storage. It's not going to cancel order, it's an opportunity, it's not an obligation. So both mechanisms will be applied. When the problem is complicated, there is no telling what the court will decide in the future. The goods will be guarded either at the warehouses or at the supplier's or at the external guard with responsibility. However, where it is clear that the goods are to be disposed of, there is no need for additional costs. This aims to reduce the costs of customs administration, not to complicate order or admit additional smuggling. In my opinion, all alcohols and cigarettes should be destroyed, and no possibility of reoccuring the market, regardless of what Banderols and at what cost. This has happened in the past, we don't need to experiment again.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u115	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u116	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Let's see the lyrics, Mr. Stoilov. So far, the regulation has been under the order of the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors. However, it is now available on condition and in order laid down in the law............................................................................................................................................................ Of course, not all goods that can be realised will be realised. The law will see it coming. It's an opportunity. I also can't agree that you will be paying rent for warehouses, for security, for goods that will be destroyed anyway. It's pointless, vain spending money and money. This is the opportunity to give the order, in which cases, what can be realized in the civil turnover, and when it cannot be realized, the law will provide for the destruction. That's what this is about. I ask you to support this text because, apart from customs, many such substances are also stored in the pre-trial authorities, in the police, and they are destroyed. Here the idea is to take samples, to be destroyed, not to spend so much money. On the basis of these samples, the experts and the samples themselves shall be presented in the proceedings. That's the idea. The law will predict when it can, for which goods and what order it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u117	Thank you. Anyone who wants a line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting on Mr. Atanasov's proposal, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: 19 against 7, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 8 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 75 MPs: 65 against 1, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Proceed, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission proposes to create a new § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 141a, para. 2 and 3 words................................................................................................ 174,
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u119	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 9. Vote 75 MPs: 70 against 1, abstention 4. The proposal for § 9 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u120	Paragraph 9 "A proposal from the MPs Dimitar Delchev, Boris Stanimirov and Petar Slavov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov § 9 to drop out. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Lazarov and Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 165 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 3: In urgent cases where this is the only opportunity to collect and preserve evidence in the investigation of crimes under art. Art. 108a. 354a of the Penal Code, the authorities of pre-trial proceedings may carry out detention of unsupplied correspondence without the permission under para. 2. The monitoring prosecutor shall immediately, but not later than 24 hours, submit to a judge of the court concerned the record of the action carried out together with a reasoned written request for the seizure of the detention of correspondence. The detention shall be carried out after a written reasoned authorisation by the judge, which shall be given without delay but not later than 24 hours. Upon refusal, the judge shall also rule on the detention of correspondence. 2. Previously on AMC's... 3 and 4 become respectively. 4 and 5. 3. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 and amended as follows: The provisions of para. 1, 2, 4 and 5 shall also apply to the detention and seizure of e-mails.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u121	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Speeches, honourable colleagues? I don't see anyone who wants to. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting for the version by the Commission of § 9, which becomes § 10. Please vote § 10 as amended by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u122	Vote 72 MPs: 69, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u123	Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Lazarov and Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 172, para. 2 words.............................................................................. 167, para. 3 and 4 and 4 shall be replaced
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u124	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 11 in the version of the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: 75, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u125	Under § 10, there is a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov § 10 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Dimitar Lazarov and Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 173 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 5. Special intelligence means may also be used to a witness in criminal proceedings who has consented to this in order to establish criminal activity of other persons under art. Art. 108a, Art. Art. 143a, Art. 159a " 159d," art. Article 301 "St. 305' and Art. 301 321 of the Criminal Code. 2. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 and amended as follows: In the cases referred to in para. 5 as well as in the cases of art. 123, para. 7 the request shall also be subject to the written consent of the person to whom the special intelligence means are used.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u126	Statements? Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, please take a break, but pay attention to this text! This is the legalization of the provocator agent! Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, This thing during communism wasn't a mechanism for gathering evidence! That's the case. Pepi the euro. You equip one person with his knowledge, he agrees to play the role of an agent provocator, and he goes to provoke someone else to commit a crime. Do you realize what we're legitimizing? Who needs this weapon, and what's that gonna prove? The application of special intelligence means to collect objective information, that is, a phone is being tapped without the knowledge of the person who uses it or is recording a conversation between two persons without their knowledge and they objectively behave among themselves. When one of the participants is aware of what is happening, he is prejudiced and provoked! The provocative, if not provoked, may not commit the crime. If we could legitimize some loyalty check mechanism that doesn't involve any responsibility afterwards, I could accept it. But legitimizing the provocator agent is just dangerous. So please, I beg of you, vote on your conscience!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u128	- What's the line? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Atanas Atanasov § 10 by importer to drop. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 72 MPs: 16 against 12, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u129	Thank you, Madam President. There are many more MPs in this House than they voted on this text. Not voting is not a position, colleagues! Please understand, a very serious mistake is being made! Eventually, someone somewhere will think of it in years when we have another case like the one in question, the euro, Pepi, and then it will not be clear who voted for what. I repeat: this text legitimizes the figure of the provocator agent! This is unacceptable in a criminal trial!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u130	Revoting, coworkers. We are voting on Mr. Atanasov's proposal to drop § 10 by importer, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: 32, Against 6, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission proposal for § 10 by importer, which becomes § 12. We are voting § 12 in the version of the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 59 against 13, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u131	Madam President, honourable Members! It's a re-voting procedure. See in the texts what this is about.......................................................................................... 108 a.m. terrorism, coercion, extortion. The example that was given here in a particular case... [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov.]] It was on the basis of the special intelligence tools that were evidence, that the court concluded that it was a provocation for bribery. That's what I'm talking about. Separately, who's putting up with what kind of responsibility is another topic. I cannot imagine, when we are talking about threats, about the threat of terrorism, I cannot imagine why someone voted against a witness who would go into such an environment and a cell and could not be equipped and applied special intelligence resources to other persons. Dear colleagues, and at the time when the SRS is applied to a person who is accused or suspected, this practice exists, but there is no possibility of certain situations where a specific person is not involved. Please bear this in mind in order to support the text adopted by the Commission and to vote for.................................................................................................. [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u132	Revoting, Members, the version of § 12 of the Commission report. They voted 102 MPs: for 70, against 15, abstentioned 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u133	Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Delchev, Boris Stanimirov and Petar Slavov for § 11. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Lazarov and Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 174 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 words in respect of the servicemen shall be replaced by cases in court-martial. 2. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: In the case of judges, prosecutors and investigators, the permission to use special intelligence means shall be given in advance by the President of the Sofia Court of Appeal or by a Vice-President expressly authorised by him, if the case is brought before the Sofia City Court, at the request of the administrative director of the Sofia Court of Appeal or of a deputy authorised by him. In the other cases, the authorisation shall be granted by the President of the Court of Military Appeal or by the President of the Specialised Criminal Court of Appeal or by an authorised alternate, at the request of the Administrative Head of the Military Appeals Office, respectively to the Prosecutor's Office of Appeal or to their authorised alternate. 3. A new para is being created. 6: The decision of the Supreme Court of Cassation shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union by the President of the Sofia Court of Appeal, the Court of Military Appeal and the Specialised Criminal Court of Appeal and the Deputy Chairperson of the Supreme Court of Cassation at the request of the Deputy Prosecutor General of the Supreme Court of Cassation. 4. Previously on AMC's... 6 and 7 become respectively. 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u134	You should have read the unsupported texts, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u135	Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Delchev, Boris Stanimirov and Petar Slavov: In § 11, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 is amended as follows: "2." Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The President of the Supreme Court of Cassation or a Vice-President expressly authorised by him, at the request of the Prosecutor General, the President of the State Agency of National Security. Where the request referred to in the preceding sentence relates to judges or to the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the authorisation shall be granted by the President of the Supreme Administrative Court or his expressly authorised Vice-President. Proposal by the National Representative Atanas Atanasov, which is also not supported by the Commission: In § 11, Art. 174, p. 2, para. 5 the following amendments shall be made: a point shall be placed after its explicitly authorised Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u136	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Slavov, Mr. Atanasov, Mr. Kazak. That's what's gonna happen after the break. Now, before announcing the same, colleagues, at 11.30 am at the Club of the National Representative will be opened the exhibition painting of the artist Dimitar Deliiski. The exhibition is in memory of the Vice-President of the Forty-third National Assembly Mrs. Rositsa Yanakieva. I invite all MPs to attend the opening. Holiday till 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u137	The sitting continues with the debate on § 13. Mr. Petar Slavov, Mr. Atanas Atanasov and Mr. Chetin Kazak made a statement before the break. Mr. Slavov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u138	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I hope that you have had a good rest during your break and you will be able to follow with due attention these texts that we are starting because they are quite important. Here it is practically about who will have the power to request the application of special intelligence means to magistrates, to courts, prosecutors and investigators. In the original text proposed by the importer, this was intended only at the request of the Prosecutor General and to be authorised only by the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation. In view of the provision so formulated, it was immediately apparent that, in practice, these two persons, the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Prosecutor General, fall outside the scope of the provision in question, at least because they should ask for their own permission and allow themselves to use the SRS. We of the Reformation bloc have made a proposal regarding this provision. We even invited the chief prosecutor himself to the parliamentary group, dried it up and took the prosecution's opinion regarding the text proposed. I can tell you that he agreed with our arguments and with the argument that in practice there should not be the slightest doubt that any person or group of persons remain outside the object and object of the Law. What we are now seeing, now as a proposal adopted by the Commission, unfortunately, is very close to the original version in my opinion. Here is simply missing the figure of the Attorney General, and two administrative heads of the Prosecutor's Office are involved, one of which is directly subordinate to the Prosecutor General. Otherwise, something essential, unfortunately, does not change, except perhaps that one or two new officials intervene. In this sense, our proposals, which we have made, except at the request of the Prosecutor's Office, in general, such requests for the use of the SRS to be able to make at least more the President of the SANS and at least more the Minister of Interior. This narrows the scope of the persons who may make such requests, as the main motive for this provision to be proposed at all is to limit the circle of persons making such requests so that no leak of information is made and that the application of the special intelligence means in question is not impaired if the person subject to their application quickly understands that such means are applied to it. In our opinion, by proposing the figure of the President of the SANS and the Minister of the Interior, we are narrowing the circle enough not to leak information, but we are still not encapsulating things only and only within the prosecution, which is a danger for us. That is why we have made these proposals and I hope you will support them. I, and at a Commission meeting, proposed a version of the text itself. Here, Madam President, I will make an editorial proposal so that I do not take the floor again: according to the text of the Commission, as adopted at the end of para. 5 and at the end of para. 6 to add a new sentence with the following text: The President of the SANS and the Minister of the Interior may also make demands on previous sentences. We believe that this is a large part of the solution to the problem that I have talked about so far, and there will be no such doubts as would otherwise remain in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u139	They can make proposals for the SANS President and which minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u140	...and the Home Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u141	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Atanasov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, this text is extremely important. In a sense, I am inclined to accept the proposal of my colleague Slavov, but my proposal is more radical. What's this about? Initially, the proposed text in the Bill said: "The application of the SRS to magistrates is subject to the approval of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation at the request of the Prosecutor General. The modification proposed by the working group voted on by the Commission does not dramatically change things, because again and only the prosecution will be the one who will be able to request the application of special intelligence resources to magistrates. What is the current regime? Now, if data on the basis of which the application of the SRS can be requested, regardless of who, in art. 13 of the SRS Act lists a number of authorities that have powers to fight crime and corruption to request the implementation of the SRS. These are the Ministry of Interior, its territorial and national structures, SANS and so on. The proposed text limits the circle. I would like to stress here fat: I do not care and should not care who gives the permission, which chair and which court. According to the Constitution, in order to implement special intelligence means, the judicial authority is required to authorise it. That is to say whether the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation gave the Court of Appeal any chair, so I am not interested in the text in this part. But why would only the D.A. want to? Why would we deprive all other authorities that are under art. 13 could ask for application of the SRS to other citizens, and for magistrates only the prosecution? I would not like to say strong words, but today the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office does not enjoy much public confidence and we instead seek a mechanism for improving its work and for some control over the activities of pre-trial proceedings give it more powers. In one sentence, these texts practically allow prosecutors to eavesdrop on judges. That's what's happening! Only the prosecutors make those demands. Notice the significant difference between the authority granting the authorisation and the body requesting the authorisation. The authorising officer shall formally check the requirements, the judge shall sign and grant the authorisation. From then on, the applicant in this case is the prosecutor, legally receiving the results of the operation of the special intelligence means. So the prosecutors, as indicated here, and in the original design was the Attorney General, are the ones who will read all the results of the application of special intelligence means. Is that what we want the prosecution to collect, only and only it to collect data through special intelligence resources for magistrates? And we think this is going to be effective? No! Here a negative effect will be achieved to collect compromising circumstances with regard to magistrates. With the proposed Draft Law amending the Constitution, we propose that the Supreme Judicial Council be divided so that the prosecutor's quota of judges is not affected. And at the same time, with this Law, we give the prosecution authority to listen to the judges and collect data against them. So please, my editorial proposal, I will try to read it in the modified text, because I originally made my proposals, but I propose in § 13, item. 2 for para. 5 drop the text: at the request of the administrative head of the Sofia Prosecutor's Office of Appeal or of a deputy authorised by him. In addition: at the request of the Administrative Director of the Military-Appellate Prosecutor's Office, respectively of the Appeals Specialized Prosecutor's Office or their Deputy. And in t. 3 for para. 6 in the last part of the text: at the request of the Deputy Prosecutor General of the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u143	I'm just gonna have to ask you to repeat that. In para. 5 I wrote that after the Sofia City Court a point is placed and the text is dropped at the request of the administrative head of the Sofia Appeal Prosecutor's Office or of a deputy appointed by him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u144	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u145	And then, in other cases, the permission is given by the President of...?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u146	The Appeals Specialized Criminal Court.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u147	The Court of Military Appeal or the President of the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u148	Or an authorized deputy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u149	That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u150	Yeah. Next text down.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u151	On request...........................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u152	Yeah. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 6 after the Chief Prosecutor of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office of Cassation, to put a point and drop the text at the request of the Deputy Prosecutor General at the Supreme Prosecutor's Office of Cassation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u153	I get it. Thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u154	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Atanasov, for the second time today will be defined as a leic in criminal law and as a civilist. I would like to ask you this question: who is the master of the investigation in the criminal trial? Who's investigating? The D.A.'s investigating. Why are we going with this, I'd say, a little paranoid concern about the master of the trial?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u155	Please, no qualifiers of concern! Mr. Kirilov, at least I expect such a vocabulary in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u156	I apologize, Madam President, and Mr. Atanasov, if he's offended by that. However, this is the most normal solution. In the last parliament, we had a hypothesis in which investigative functions were handed over to the SANS. DANS has no investigative functions. Why should we introduce them into this procedure?! With regard to the Minister of Interior, he is an executive body. We will always have the replica of the independent judiciary, which will say: "Why is the executive listening to us? "
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u157	And he's not just eavesdropping.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u158	Second line? A hole, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u159	Thank you. Mr. Kirilov, you've made a great line to clarify. At present, under current legislation, the monitoring prosecutor has the right to request the application of special intelligence means. We don't take that right. I ask the question why, with regard to magistrates, only the prosecution will make demands? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13 of the Special Intelligence Means Act lists a number of institutions, including the monitoring prosecutor, who may request the application of special intelligence means in respect of all types of cases. You can't just make requests for magistrates only by the prosecution. It is extremely important that the information collected by the special intelligence means will only go to the prosecution. I will give an example, including with regard to the SANS, which may not have police powers, but if they are working on any operational corruption case of a magistrate, they will request the application of special intelligence funds, collect the data and provide them to the prosecution as evidence, as evidence in the process and there is no problem in this regard. However, to deprive all other institutions that have the power to collect data from this power, including in this way, we are creating a greater risk of leaking information. We are expanding the circle of individuals who will have access to this information. I repeat, I apologize if I bore you: and at the present time, this has been regulated since 2007, the monitoring prosecutor has this power. Nobody's limiting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u160	Any other MPs who wish to speak? Before the break Mr. Chetin Kazak expressed his desire, but now I don't see him in the room. Are there any other MPs who wish to take part in the texts discussed? No. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposals of the MPs Dimitar Delchev, Boris Stanimirov and Petar Slavov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 96 MPs: 12, against 9, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Atanas Atanasov. The Commission does not support the proposal. 90 MPs voted: 9 against 13, 68 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the additions he made as a proposal in his speech Mr. Slavov: in the version of the Commission for § 13 in para. 5 and para. 6 to finally add the following sentence: The Minister of the Interior and the Chairman of the SANS can make demands on previous sentences. We are voting for Mr. Slavov's editorial supplement. Vote 94 MPs: 79, against 1, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Mr. Atanasov, do you insist that your proposal be put to the vote because we will make no sense to Mr. Slavov's newly accepted proposal if we put the point where you propose? Are you withdrawing your offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u161	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u162	Mr. Atanasov withdrew the offer he made in his speech. We are now voting § 13 in the version of the Commission, supplemented by Mr Slavov's proposal voted in this House. They voted 102 MPs: 100, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u163	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 12 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u164	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 12 by importer. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, the balcony of our guests are students from the specialty of Law, 2nd course of Burgas Free University. Let's welcome them. Welcome! [[Applause the MPs welcome the guests on the balcony.]] Let us hope that they remain satisfied with what they follow as a debate and a procedure in plenary. We're listening, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u165	According to § 13 there is a proposal of the MPs Yavor Haytov, Georgi Kovachev, Svetlin Tanchev, Rumen Yonchev, Martin Ivanov, Hristo Todorov, Petar Petrov, Kancho Filipov, Chavdar Peychev and Krasimira Kovachka: "In § 13 of the submitted General Law (Article 22 (2) of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Art. 194. (1) The investigation shall be carried out by investigators in cases: 1. for crimes of general nature under art. Art. 95, Art. 110, Art. Art. 123, Art. 212, para. Art. 5, art. Article 253 (c) and (d) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 96). 286 "289," art. Art. 295, Art. Art. 299, Art. 334, para. Art. 2, Art. 335, para. Art. 2, Art. 340 "341b', art. 342, para. 1, Pred. Art. 1, 2 and 4 Art. 343 in conjunction with Art. 343 342, para. 1, Pred. Art. 1, 2 and 4 349, para. Art. 2 and 3, Art. Article 349a 353b, para. 2, p. Art. 1, art. 353c, para. Art. 3, Art. 356e, para. Art. 2, Art. 356g, b. In the case of aid granted by the Member State concerned, the amount of aid referred to in point (a) of Article 1 (1) shall not exceed the amount of the aid referred to in point (a) of Article 1 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 356k, para. 2, p. Art. 5, art. 357 "360" and art. 407 " 419a" of the Criminal Code; 1a. for serious criminal offences under Sections I, IV, V and VIII of Chapter 2 of the Specific Part of the Penal Code committed by minors; 2. for crimes committed by judges, prosecutors and investigators, by other persons with immunity, by members of the Council of Ministers or by civil servants in the Ministry of Interior or at the State Agency 3. for crimes committed abroad; 4. with factual and legal complexity entrusted to them by the administrative head of the respective district prosecution. (2) The investigation shall be conducted by an investigator of the National Investigation Service in cases: for crimes under art. Art. 95, Art. 110, Art. 123, para. 3, Pred. Art. 3, Art. 334, para. Art. 2, Art. 335, para. Art. 2, Art. 340 "341b', art. 342, para. 1, Pred. Art. 1, 2 and 4 Art. 343 in conjunction with Art. 343 342, para. 1, Pred. Art. 1, 2 and 4 349, para. Art. 2 and 3, Art. Article 349a 353b, para. 2, p. Art. 1, art. 353c, para. Art. 3, Art. 356e, para. Art. 2, Art. 356g, b. In the case of aid granted by the Member State concerned, the amount of aid referred to in point (a) of Article 1 (1) shall not exceed the amount of the aid referred to in point (a) of Article 1 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 356k, para. 2, p. 5 of the Penal Code, etc. 2 and 3 of art. 194, para. 1 of the PPC. The Attorney General or his deputy may order the investigation under para. 1 as well as for crimes indicted to the Specialized Criminal Court to be committed by an investigator at the National Investigation Service. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Lazarov and Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Chetin Kazak, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 194 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 after the words. 95 "110" is added to the list. Art. 123, Art. 212, para. Art. 5, art. 286 "289," art. Art. 295, Art. Art. 299, Art. 334, para. Art. 2, Art. 335, para. Art. 2, Art. Art. 341a, Art. 341a Art. 341b, Art. 341b 342, para. 3 cc. by para. 1, proposals first, second and fourth, art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 cc. by art. 342, para. 1, proposals first, second and fourth, art. Article 349a Art. 353c, Art. 356d (b) To be created t. 1a: 1a. for serious criminal offences under Chapter 2, Sections I, IV, V and VIII of the special part of the Penal Code committed by minors; (c) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." for crimes committed by judges, prosecutors and investigators, by other persons with immunity, by members of the Council of Ministers or by civil servants under art. 142, para. 1, t. 1 of the Act on the Ministry of Interior or under art. 43, para. 1, t. 1 of the State Agency Act "National Security" as well as by staff of the Customs Agency as an investigative body; 2. A new para is being created. 2: The investigation into criminal cases under art. 334, para. Art. 2, Art. 335, para. Art. 2, Art. Art. 341a, Art. 341a Art. 341b, Art. 341b 342, para. 3 cc. by para. 1, proposals first, second and fourth, art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 cc. by art. 342, para. 1, proposals first, second and fourth, art. Article 349a Art. 353c, Art. Criminal Code 356k is carried out by an investigator at the National Investigation Service. The Chief Prosecutor or his authorised deputy may also order the investigation into other cases under para. 1 to be carried out by an investigator at the National Investigation Service. 3. Previously on AMC's... 2, 3 and 4 become respectively para. 3, 4 and
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u166	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I hope there's a debate so your voice can recover. Speeches, honourable colleagues? Mr. Haytov, come in for a statement. You have a proposal, together with colleagues, which has been rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u167	Mr. Chairman, thank you. In fact, honourable Members, behind these dry numbers and texts, which read the President of the Legal Commission with a very tight voice, between what we and colleagues Lazarov and Kirilov propose, there is only one difference. And it is this: we, as importers, together with colleagues Yonchev, Filipov, Dr. Kovachka and Tanchev, propose that investigators investigate also in cases concerning the financial, tax and insurance system. Our motives for this proposal are as follows. There are about 500 investigators in Bulgaria. Unfortunately, they're not loaded. Their workload, colleagues, is an average of about 15 cases a year. From another point of view, the employees of the Ministry of Interior, who have the functions of investigative officers, have, on average, about 118 investigative cases. I think it's only fair that we load up our detectives as well. Here I see experienced colleagues who have worked for a long time both in the Ministry of Interior and in the administration of justice, who I am convinced will impartially support us because, last but not least, there is no party. In essence, honourable Members, this is the judicial reform, it is part of the reform to make it possible to work in a pre-trial phase in time and quality so that the prosecution can really submit reasoned indictments and that the court can rule fairly. Very often there are acquittal sentences, including in noisy cases, due to errors in the pre-trial phase. Loading Bulgarian investigators with this type of crime that they should investigate, this is a kind of guarantee for a higher quality, because they are undoubtedly more qualified. Some of them have great experience, work on cases of complex and factual complexity from a legal point of view. Last but not least, the deadlines are also important because, colleagues, the investigation of a crime such as money laundering is very often related to international organized crime and the need to communicate with the law enforcement services of remaining countries outside the territory of Bulgaria. All this takes time. Last but not least, it is very important to talk about a budget. I would just like to tell you that the expertise in cases related to crimes against the financial system, the tax and insurance system is within a few thousand leva, and it is all loading the budget of the Ministry of Interior. Thus, giving investigators the opportunity to work on these cases, we also reduce the financial burden on the budget of the Ministry of Interior, which, believe me, is not small, because colleagues there are working at a chronic financial disadvantage at the moment. I ask you very much to support the text that we have tabled with colleagues, because I am convinced that whoever sincerely cares about the judicial reform that wants it to happen will support it, and from the heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u168	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Replies to Mr. Haytov's statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. We are going to vote, honourable Members. We are voting on the proposal for § 13 of the Parliamentary Representative Yavor Haytov and colleagues, which is not supported by the Commission. Please, honourable Members, we are voting on a proposal not supported by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 28 against 6, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. We shall proceed to the vote of § 13 by the version of the Commission, which shall become § 14. Please, honourable Members, vote on the new § 14. Vote 84 MPs: 74 against 4, abstention 6. The proposal for the new § 14 of the Commission has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u169	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 16. Proposal of the MPs Emil Dimitrov, Christian Mitev, Boris Yachev, Dimitar Bajraktarov and Slavcho Atanasov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u170	Thank you. Please speeches, Members, for the new paragraphs 15, 16 and 17 in accordance with the text of the importer supported by the Commission. Do we have any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. We vote on § 14, which becomes § 15; § 15, which becomes § 16; and § 16, which becomes § 17 by importer, supported by the Commission. Please, honourable Members, vote. Vote 80 MPs: 75, none, abstention 5. The proposal for the three paragraphs is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u171	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2 and 3: When the defendant is found guilty, he is sentenced to prison sentence, the execution of which has not been postponed under art. 66 of the Penal Code and there is a real danger of concealment, the court may replace the measure of non-violence with a heavier one, or take one. (3) Where the defendant is found guilty and is sentenced to a sentence of no less than ten years in prison or any more severe punishment, the real danger of the defendant hiding is present unless the evidence in the case is found contrary. 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 4. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 5 and in it, after the word................................................................................................................... is 4. So far, the Al. 4 with a pan. 6 And in it the words are said. 2 and 3 and 3 shall be replaced by......................................................................................................... 2.. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18 which shall become § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u172	Statements? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u173	I shall put to the vote § 18 in the version of the Commission and § 19 in the Commission report. We are voting on the two paragraphs in the version of the Commission and, accordingly, supported by the Commission. 86 MPs voted: 83, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u174	Paragraph 19? a proposal of the MPs Dimitar Lazarov and Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 340th para is created. 3, 4 and 5: In the case of a decision to be examined by a cassation check, the decision by which on the basis of art. 337, para. 2 is amended a sentence of conviction and a sentence of imprisonment shall be imposed, the patience of which shall not be postponed under art. 66 of the Penal Code, or other more severe punishment, the court shall rule on the measure of non-violence by applying art. Directive 2009/65/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2009 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the Community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data Two or three. The order is subject to appeal and protest before the Supreme Court of Cassation. (4) When issuing a final decision, by virtue of art. 337, para. 2 is amended a sentence of conviction and a sentence of imprisonment shall be imposed, the patience of which shall not be postponed under art. 66 of the Penal Code, or other more severe punishment, the court shall immediately send a copy of the Prosecutor's decision. (5) The prosecutor of the court of appeal may order that the person be brought to the person concerned or to the prison nearest to the court's seat. In such cases, the Prosecutor issuing the order shall inform the Prosecutor of the first instance, who shall take action in the execution of the sentence after receiving it from the court.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u175	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 20 in the version of the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u176	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 20, which becomes § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 369, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 242, para. The following points are inserted after
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u177	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 21 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u178	Proposal of the MPs Emil Dimitrov, Hristian Mitev, Boris Yachev, Dimitar Bajraktarov and Slavcho Atanasov is created a new § 20a with the following content: A new article is being created. 369a with the following text: Art. 369a. A shortened judicial investigation shall not be permitted if the damage caused is serious bodily injury or death, or the child has been in a drunken state, as well as in multiple offences, and where the offence has been committed against an authority in or on the occasion of the performance of his office. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u179	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the MPs Emil Dimitrov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 71 MPs: 9 against 20, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u180	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 which shall become § 22. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u181	Anblok, we vote on paragraphs 21 and 22 by importer, which become paragraphs 22 and 23 respectively on the Commission report. Vote 72 MPs: 68, none, abstention 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u182	Paragraph 23 "Proposition of the National Representative Desislava Atanasova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 400 after the words 60, para. Art. 3, Art. 62, para. 5 is and comma.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u183	Statements? I won't. We vote § 24. Vote 71 MPs: 68, no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u184	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 411a The following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Specialized Criminal Court is charged with criminal cases in: 1. Chapter one of the special part of the Penal Code; 2. Article 321 and 321a of the Criminal Code; 3. Art. 116, para. 1, t. Art. 10, art. 131, para. 1, t. Art. 8, Art. 142, para. 2, p. Art. 8, Art. 142a, para. Two, proposition two, art. 143, para. Two, proposition two, art. 143a, para. 3, Proposed 2nd, Art. 155, para. 5, t. Art. 1, art. 156, para. 3, p. Art. 1, art. 159, para. Art. 5, art. 159d, proposal number two, Art. 162, para. 3, proposal first and para. Art. 4, Art. 195, para. 1, t. 9, Proposed 2nd, Art. 199, para. 1, t. Art. 5, art. 208, para. Five, proposal one, Art. 213a, para. 2, p. 5, proposal 2nd and para. 3, p. Art. 3, Art. 214, para. 2, p. Art. 1 and 2, Art. 235, para. 4th proposal first, Art. 242, para. Article 1 (1) (g) (i) and (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 253, para. 3, p. In the case of an entity that is not a financial institution, the entity shall report to the competent authority of the Member State in which the financial institution is established. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. Two, proposition two, art. 278a, para. 3, proposal 3rd, Art. 280, para. 2, p. Art. 5, art. 330, para. 2, p. Art. 4, Art. 346, para. 6, Proposed 2nd, Art. 354a, para. 2, p. Art. 1, art. 354b, para. Art. 2-4, Art. 354c, para. Art. 2-4 and art. 356b, para. 2 of the Penal Code. 2. Alinea 2 is canceled. 3. In para. 3 words................................................................................. 1 and 2' are replaced 4. In para. 6 words................................................................................. One, two or three shall be replaced by one, and one, two or three, shall be
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u185	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 25 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 71 MPs: 66, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u186	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u187	I shall put to the vote § 25 by importer which shall become § 26 in the Commission's report. Vote 74 MPs: 69, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u188	Under § 26, there is a proposal from the National Representative Emil Dimitrov, made in accordance with Article 26. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 5. The execution of claims on costs and charges under para. 4 may also focus on the money and securities lodged as a guarantee. 2. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u189	Are there any speeches? No. We are voting § 27 in the version of the Commission. Vote 73 MPs: 69, no objection, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u190	Mrs. Chairman! On the basis of art. 61, para. 2 We would like to interrupt the meeting for 30 minutes and insist on the convening of a Presidency Council to discuss the disciplinary penalty imposed against our colleague Valentin Kasabov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u191	In accordance with art. 61, para. 2 each parliamentary group may request a recess of the meeting for no more than 30 minutes once a meeting. The termination of the meeting shall not be requested earlier than one hour after its start and later than one hour before the end of the working time. It's 13.09, which means there's less than an hour left, which is why I can't respect your request, Mr. Simeonov. Proceed, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u192	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 28.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u193	We vote § 28. Vote 72 MPs: 66, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u194	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 29. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. Madam President, I would like to ask my colleague Dimitar Lazarov to continue reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u195	I am opening the debate on § 28 by importer, supported by the Commission as § 29 and the name of Mr. Yanaki Stoilov has the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u196	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am proposing here to interrupt the discussion and vote on the bill because we are moving on to the section. I have a proposal which is not supported by the Commission, but there are a number of important issues in this section that I believe should once again be carefully reviewed and the time until tomorrow's meeting, when it will continue, is sufficient to do so. I would like to draw attention to the fact that also § 29 and further to other paragraphs relating to the application of special intelligence means will likely affect a number of pending proceedings. This must be done very carefully and with full consciousness. This is my reason to propose, after the vote on § 28, that we do not proceed now to discuss and consider the paragraphs of Section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u197	Inverse opinion Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u198	Madam President, I'm making a reverse proposal to complete the bill. He was seen in the Legal Committee at two meetings, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u199	But unattended.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u200	If someone hasn't been watching, they can make all sorts of speeches. As to the fact that, in the context of the "Transitional and Final Provisions"... [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u201	Do not engage in dialogue with each other, you have the floor for a reverse opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u202	I suppose when you chair, you don't allow yourself to enter into such a dialogue. As far as the transfer and final provisions are concerned, they are also consistent with the prosecution, with the Supreme Court of Cassation, with the Bureau of Control and will in no case affect pending judicial or pre-trial proceedings. In general, there is intended to give a slightly longer period to the judges to give a reasoned ruling. It is therefore possible that, where there are factual errors in requests and authorisations, the court may be informed by the authorities implementing them in order to correct them. These are basically the amendments. I'm making the opposite offer to complete our bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u203	I put to the vote the motion to postpone the debate, respectively, to the votes, as we are at the second reading of the section of the I understand that you do not mind if I put to the vote the supported text of § 28 by importer, which becomes § 29. I put to the vote Yanaki Stoilov's proposal to postpone the debates, respectively the votes on the texts of the "Transitional and final provisions" until the end of the report. They voted 93 MPs: 24, against 50, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 28 by importer, which shall become § 29 of the Commission's report. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the name reported by Mr. Kirilov of the "Transitional and final provisions" by an importer supported by the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u204	Proposal by the MPs Yanaki Stoilov and Philip Popov for § 29: In the transitional and final provisions, § 29, at the end of para. 3 shall be added to the expression "s', which shall be dealt with by the first instance court concerned. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 30. Proposal from the MPs Emil Dimitrov, Christian Mitev, Boris Yachev, Dimitar Bajraktarov and Slavcho Atanasov. The motion has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u205	We're going back to § 29 by importer. Are there any speeches? Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u206	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This is one of the cases that I had in mind in the motivation of my motion to postpone. He is not the only one, but now I will use to give reasons why this proposal is necessary. I regret that I did not have the opportunity to justify it to the Legal Committee, then to participate in the sitting, and now I am using this in front of the plenary to note to you what are some of the consequences of the adoption of the quoted text. It shall concern, inter alia, proceedings under art. 108 and 109 of the Criminal Code, Chapter 1 The proposed change will affect criminal cases that are to be dealt with by the relevant district courts. They will be transferred from the district attorney's office to the special prosecutor's office and respectively the specialized criminal court designated cases. In this case, part of the cases will be violated already well established interaction and practice between the bodies of the SANS, the Ministry of Interior and the Prosecutor's Office. There is a danger of losing the trust of witnesses who need to be convinced to tell the truth. People who have worked in this area know that it is not formal enough in some difficult cases simply to call a person as a witness. Otherwise, it is likely that these individuals, moving the defendant, will change their testimony, and in the future many of them will probably not want to testify, because in these cases it is easier to forget what they have heard and what they have seen. I do not want to do a deeper analysis of the Specialized Court for the way the work started, because for him for a long time there were candidates, because there were not enough willing ones, what lobbies were formed to hope that today, at least from the point of view of the qualification, this condition is better. But notice that this court justified a first instance conviction for extortion and kidnapping due to lack of subjective element. I won't comment again so I don't go into details. However, it was also subsequently established that special reconnaissance funds that have been implemented indicate that the convicted person previously said: "I dealt with this court. These are not allegations, these are documented circumstances. I would like to hope that the Attorney General, since he was the initiator of most of these proposals, has not taken account of some of the consequences that will arise when adopting this text. Because in this case we can say that we are also talking about successful and successful proceedings against cases that have become known as an action to curb extreme Islamism, to create groups that have contacts outside the country and with similar organizations. In some of these European countries, proceedings are also being conducted and action has already been taken. So bear in mind that only the case in the Pazardzhik District Court, led on this matter, has so far ended with some successful legal result. In other courts and other prosecutions, this has not happened, but I think it is better, and the text that I propose does not even dispute, in general, the change in conviction, but only the expiry of the necessary period for these proceedings to be passed in the order so far, namely by adding the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I think this will be in the interest of both the prosecution and the court, so that the work that has been done is not wasted or at best not to be repeated, and without guarantees that it will come to the necessary result. This issue is very serious and I therefore suggest that you support the proposal that has been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u207	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs for a statement? I won't. The debate is closed. Mr. Merdjanov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u208	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! A proposal was made to end the discussion. In addition, after my colleague Janaki Stoilov's speech, we do remain convinced that the adoption of such texts would have an impact on pending lawsuits. I think that's unacceptable. There have already been enough reproaches to the National Assembly for the adoption of such norms. That's why I'm making a procedural proposal for a roll call.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u209	Please, the list. Aidoan Mutalib Ali-here. Ayhan Ahmed Etem is absent. Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- absent Alexander Hristov Metodiev- absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov- absent Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Ana Georgieva Barakova- here Angel Petrov Naydenov- absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev- here Antony Antonyev Trenchev- absent Atanas Zafirov- Zafirov is absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Atanasov- absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov- absent Atanas Todorov Merdjanov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov here Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov- here Boris Yankov Yachev- absent Borislav Lyubenov Velikov- here Borislav Mihailov Borisov- absent Borislav Rajchov Milanov- absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev- absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan-here. Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- here Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov- suspended Valentin Lubenov Pavlov- here Valentin Nikolov Ivanov- absent Valentin Stefanov Vasilev- here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- absent Vasil Milanov Antonov- absent Velizar Penkov Enchev- here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov- absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov- absent Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- here Volen Nikolov Siderov- absent Vyara Mihaylova Tzerovska- here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Simeonova Georgieva- here Georg Danielov Georgiev- here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev- absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov- here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov- here Georgi Nikolov Nedev- here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev- absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski- absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov- absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov- absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- absent Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - absent Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen here. Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov- here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Darin Ivanov Dimitrov- here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev- absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov-- here. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Ivanova Yordanova- here Dimitar Angelov Gorov- absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev- absent Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glavchev- absent Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov- here Dimitar Krumov Tanev- absent Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov- absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov- absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev- absent Dimitar Hristov Zhelev here Dobrin Nenov Danev- absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov- here Doncho Spasov Baxanov- here Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa- absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- absent Emil Dimitrov Reinov- absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Erdingh Ismail Hajrula- absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov- here Zdravko Dimitrov - absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- absent Ivan Kirilov Ivanov- here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov- here Ivan Penkov Ivanov- here Ivan Slavov Ivanov- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- absent Ivan Stoev Cholakov- here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov- absent Ilian Sashov Todorov- here Iliya Yankov Iliev- here Irena Ivanova Kotseva- here Sincerely Vasilev Veselinov- absent Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova- absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov- absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova- here Cyril Andonov Kotev- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin is absent. Cyril Dobrev Dobrev- here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev- absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev- absent Kircho Georgiev Karagyozov- absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Korman Yakubov Ismailov- absent Cornelia Dobreva Marinova- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov- absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Petrov Petrov- here Krasimir Hristov Jankov- absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka- here Krasimira Peneva Anastasova- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov- here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov- absent Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov- here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan-here Magdalena Lambova Tasheva- here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva- here Mariana Georgieva Todorova- missing Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva- absent Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov- here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov- absent Maya Bozhidarova Manolova - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Method Borisov Andreev- absent Mehmet Umer Ataman here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova- absent Milen Vassilev Mihov- absent Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Mithat Sabri Metin is missing Mikhail Raykov Mikov- absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov- absent Musa Cemal Palev here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed is absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski- absent Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev- absent Nevin Halil Hassan-- here. Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Neno Hristov Vlaikov- absent Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski- here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- absent Petar Vladislavov Slavov- here Petar Georgiev Kadiev- here Petar Georgiev Kanev- absent Petar Ivanov Petrov- here Petar Kostadinov Petrov- here Petar Pandushev Chobanov- here Peter Hristov Bekov- here Peter Hristov Petrov- here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova- here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova- here Radan Milenov Kanev- absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova- here Ramadan Bajram Atali here Rosen Petrov Petrov- here Rumen Vassilev Gechev- absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov- here Rumen Dinev Zhelev- absent Rumen Ivanov- here Rumen Marinov Yonchev- here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev- here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin- here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova- missing Svetlana Angelova Naydenova- here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev- here Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov- here Svilen Filipov Ivanov- here Semir Hussain Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova- here Slavi Penchev Binev- absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov- absent Snezana Georgieva Dukova- here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov- here Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov- here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov- here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov- here Stefan Georgiev Kenov- here Stefan Ivanov Dedev- here Stefan Lambov Danailov- absent Stephanie Mihneva Mihaylova- here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- absent Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova- here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov- absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva- here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev- here Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova- here Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid-- absent. Hassan Ahmed Ademov- here Hristian Radev Mitev- here Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristo Georgiev Todorov- here Hüseyin Hassan Hafuzov- here Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov- here Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov- here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska- here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev- missing Chavdar Slavchev Peychev- here Chetin Hussein Kazak- here Shabanali Ahmed Durmush is absent Julian Krastev Angelov- here Yavor Bozhilov Notev- absent Yavor Iliev Haytov- here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov- absent Yanko Alexandrov Jankov- here. [[At the time of the inspection, Members of the National Assembly shall enter the Chamber and shall be further noted.]] Colleagues, there is a quorum, the meeting is ongoing. Please come in for a procedure, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u210	Madam President, honourable Members! I suggest we extend the time until point one is completed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u211	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put the procedural proposal to the vote. They voted 101 MPs: 72, against 21, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. The debate under Paragraph 29 is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Yanaki Stoilov and Philip Popov, which the Commission does not support, we are voting on an unsupported proposal. They voted 96 MPs: 15 against 45, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the Commission's proposal to vote in favour of the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 30. Vote 94 MPs: 85 against 4, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u212	Proposal of the MPs Emil Dimitrov, Christian Mitev, Boris Yachev, Dimitar Bajraktarov and Slavcho Atanasov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u213	Statements? I won't. We vote § 30 by importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes § 31. Vote 89 MPs: 85 against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u214	The Commission proposes to establish § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Customs Act (promise, SG No. ...), in § 1 of the Additional provision, of which 31 words. 194, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 194, para. The following information shall be provided in accordance with Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u215	Statements? I won't. We vote § 32. They voted 86 MPs: 84 against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u216	Under § 31 there is a proposal of the MPs Dimitar Delchev, Boris Stanimirov and Petar Slavov: The following amendments shall be made in § 31: 1. Point 2, b. The following is amended as follows: A new para is being created. 3: The request to use special intelligence funds against a judge, prosecutor or investigator shall be submitted by the Prosecutor General, by the President of the State Agency of National Security, by the Minister of Interior, or by their expressly appointed alternates. In pre-trial proceedings, the request shall be made on a proposal from the monitoring prosecutor. 2. Point 4, b. The following is amended as follows: (b) By order of para. 1 and 2 authorisation for the use of special intelligence means grants the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation or expressly authorised by him Vice-President when special intelligence means are requested to be applied to a judge, prosecutor or investigator. Where the request referred to in the preceding sentence relates to judges or to the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the authorisation shall be granted by the President of the Supreme Administrative Court or his expressly authorised Vice-President. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 8, b. The term of office of the Supreme Administrative Court shall be inserted after the words "the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the European Union" and the words "the Supreme Administrative Court of Justice of the European Union" shall be added. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov: In § 31: 1. Points 1, 2 and 3 are out. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: Art. 4, Art. 15 point (b) shall be amended as follows: a point shall be placed after its designated Vice-President. 3. Paragraphs 5, 6 and 7, respectively Art. 22, 26 and 27 drop out. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: Art. 8, Art. 8, Art. 8, Art. 8, Art. 8, Art. 8, Art. 8, Art. 8, Art. 8, Art. 8, 29 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Lazarov and Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31, which shall become § 33: ................................................ The Law on Special Intelligence (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 is created. 3: Special intelligence means may also be used to a witness in criminal proceedings who has consented to this in order to establish criminal activity of other persons under art. Art. 108a, Art. Art. 143-143a, Art. 143-143a Art. 159a-1959, Art. Art. 301-305 and Art. 301-305 121 of the Penal Code. I'm fixing it, Madam President. It's the last one. 321 of the Penal Code. "2." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1, t. 6 words................................................................................. 3 and 4 and 4 shall be replaced (b) A new para shall be created. 3: The request for the use of special intelligence means against a judge, prosecutor or investigator shall be submitted by the administrative head of the Sofia Prosecutor's Office of Appeal, the Military-Appeal Prosecutor's Office, respectively to the Prosecutor's Office of Appeal or by a deputy authorised by them. The request to use special intelligence means against the President of the Sofia Court of Appeal, the Court of Military Appeal and the Specialised Criminal Court of Appeal and his deputy shall be submitted by the Deputy Prosecutor General to the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office. And here I note, Madam President, honourable Members, the need to note the sentence that was adopted with a previous vote in...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u217	You'll do it accordingly, Mr. Kirilov. When you report the text, you will then return us to remind us of what we voted in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u218	Okay. I see that my colleague is also prepared with this proposal. (c) the current para. 3 becomes para. 4; (d) the current para. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the words are said. 1 and 2' are replaced by.......................................................................................................... One, two and three. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 in the text before t. 1 after the words the monitoring prosecutor is added by the authority under art. 13, para. 3 is and a comma is placed; (b) in para. 2 words.............................................................................. 12, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 4. Article 15 is amended as follows: sc) The heads of the bodies referred to in Article 1 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 13, para. 1 or the monitoring prosecutor shall submit the request to the Presidents of the Sofia City Court, the relevant district or military courts, to the specialised criminal court or to a Vice-President authorised by them, who shall, within 72 hours, give written permission to use or refuse to use special intelligence means by motivating their acts. (2) The applicant shall be obliged to provide the authority under para. 1 all materials on which the request is based. (3) By order of para. 1 and 2 authorisation for the use of special intelligence means shall be granted: 1. to judges, prosecutors and investigators, by the President of the Sofia Court of Appeal or by the Vice-President expressly authorised by him, if the case is brought before the Sofia City Court; in the other cases, the authorisation shall be granted by the President of the Court of Military Appeal or by the President of the Specialized Criminal Court of Appeal or by an authorised alternate; 2. to the President of the Sofia Court of Appeal, the Court of Military Appeal and the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court and its Deputy President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, head of the Criminal College. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 2 in the text before t. 1 words.............................................................................. 13, para. For the purposes of this Annex, the following definitions shall apply: 13, para. 1, 2 or 3 (b) in para. 3: (aa) in the text before t. 1 the words may not start or be uploaded and shall be replaced by the words 'not start or end'; (bb) New items shall be created. 1 and 2: "1." where authorisation is granted for the application of special investigative means for the detection of crimes, other than those referred to in art. 3, para. 1; 2. in case of manifest factual errors in the request of the authority under art. 13 or in the authorisation of the authority referred to in art. 15; (d) (c) the current t. 1, 2 and 3 become ct, respectively. 3, 4 and 5. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23 words............................................................................. 13, para. For the purposes of this Annex, the following definitions shall apply: 13, 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 the word "reflections' is replaced by "reports'; (b) A new para shall be created. 2: At the request of the authority referred to in art. 13 and in case of technical possibility, the structure of art. 20, para. 1 provides access to the information through an automated information network. c) the current para. 2 and 3 become respectively. 3 and 4; (d) the current para. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the words............................................................................................... 13, para. For the purposes of this Annex, the following definitions shall apply: 13, para. 1, 2 or 3 (e) the current para. 5 becomes para. 6. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 words.............................................................................. 13, para. For the purposes of this Annex, the following definitions shall apply: 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 13, para. For the purposes of this Annex, the following definitions shall apply: 13, para. One, 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1 words.............................................................................. 13, para. For the purposes of this Annex, the following definitions shall apply: 13, para. 1, 2 or 3s and the words............................................................................................. 13, para. In addition, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the (b) in para. 3: (aa) c. 1 words.............................................................................. 13, para. For the purposes of this Annex, the following definitions shall apply: 13, para. 1, 2 or 3 (bb) c. 2 shall be added at the end of the day, or 3 shall be added; (c) in para. 7 words.............................................................................. 13, para. For the purposes of this Annex, the following definitions shall apply: 13, para. 1, 2 or 3 (d) paragraph 8 is amended as follows: The Presidents of the District and Courts of Appeal and the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation shall include in their annual reports data on the number of authorisations granted and the material means of evidence drawn up. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 3 words The information under art. 24 and 25, which is not used for the preparation of material resources and resources, shall be replaced by the information referred to in art. 24, which is not used for the preparation of physical evidence and information under art. 25s and 25s; (b) in para. 4 and 5 words................................................................................................ 13, para. For the purposes of this Annex, the following definitions shall apply: 13, para. 1, 2 or 3s and the words............................................................................................. 12, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (c) in para. 6 words................................................................................. 25, para. 3 and 4 and 4 shall be replaced 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34d, para. 3 and 4 the word "The Committee" is replaced by "The National Assembly." 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34f is created. 6: If there is evidence of unlawful authorisation of the application of special intelligence funds by an authority under art. 15, The National Bureau shall refer to the Prosecutor's Office and inform the Supreme Judicial Council, the Head of the Supreme Court and the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u219	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u220	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I take the floor, first of all, to withdraw the proposals that we have made from the Reformation bloc with colleagues Delchev and Atanasov under this paragraph. I take this opportunity to thank all those who have previously supported our editorial proposals under § 13 and they have taken the initiative in relation to the use of the SRS against judges and magistrates. I make the same proposals that need to be reflected here as editorial: in art. 13.................................................................................. Two...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u221	Point 2 - Changes in art. 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u222	Okay. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 3 Finally, a new sentence is added with the following text: The Minister of the Interior and the Chairman of the State Agency "National Security" can do the same text as we adopted earlier in the PPC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u223	A line to this proposal? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u224	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the Commission 5 of the text of the Commission, new amendments to art. 22 of the Special Intelligence Means Act, where two new grounds are provided for the termination of the use of the SRS by the implementing authorities themselves, i.e. the DATO and the other authority that will apply the SRS. The first new hypothesis to be proposed is when permission has been granted for the implementation of the SRS for the detection of crimes other than those referred to in art. 3, para. 1. I ask: how can such a hypothesis ever come about? This means, first of all, that the authority that requested the implementation of the SRS intentionally requested their application for a crime which is clearly not covered by Article. 1. What's more, the court has solved this thing. Such a hypothesis seems absurd to me, at the same time, to the requesting authority to ask the SRS for a crime that is outside the scope of the eligible crimes for which the SRS is being used, and the court to solve it. Do we not create a risk of arbitrary judgment by law enforcement authorities to refuse or terminate the use of the SRS on this basis?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u225	Do you have anything in the editing?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u226	I'm just asking a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u227	Okay. - What's the line? I won't. Mrs. Manolova has the floor to speak. [[Voice in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u228	Ha, Mrs. Manolova's here! Hello, Mrs. Manolova!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u229	Colleagues, please, no yelling!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u230	Honourable Members, Madam President! I will ask the importers of this proposal Mr. Kirilov and Mr. Lazarov to justify the need and the reasons for making these changes in § 31. I'll remind you...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u231	Mrs. Manolova, please put your card on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u232	Take my time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u233	Count Mrs. Manolova's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u234	I would recall that this meeting of the Legal Commission, which examined the Transitional and Final Provisions, was held in semi-legal conditions without the presence of any representative of the opposition and without the possibility in the Legal Commission to hear the arguments of the importers about these changes. In Bulgaria there is the suspicion that they are being made for a specific case, which is currently pending before the last court of law, and again the changes in the law will be used, as have already been used with front texts, for the justification of one person. Please, if I am not right, stand up and tell us the reasons why you should submit these texts. What are you after? Why you held this meeting in this way and why none of the importers was able to explain clearly what were the reasons for the introduction of these texts. If this is another case in which the majority is being misled and misguided, changes are being made to the Law in relation to a particular pending case, it would be a manifestation not just of a conflict of interest, but of frank political lobbying.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u235	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u236	How does Mrs. Manolova speak without a map?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u237	I've picked up the time of the speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u238	Hey, that's what I'm saying!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u239	Please don't get into a fight with each other!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u240	Madam President, honourable Members! Firstly, I would like to strongly object to the suggestions that have been made at a Commission meeting that are continuing and now being done. The fact that someone doesn't come to a legal board meeting is his problem. That someone at 9:00. It's only now that he's in plenary that's his problem. [[Applause from GERB.]] A representative from BSP left Bulgaria Mr. Chavdar Georgiev is present at the meeting, if I am not mistaken. He's taking part in this meeting. I would like to remind you when we voted here on the Rules of Procedure, how a lady who is looking for media for appearances was saying that on Friday, you see, every Friday she will stand because her constituents had chosen her and that is why Friday's control... I propose that every Friday the first question be: where is this lady in question on the subject?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u241	Please don't deviate from the subject of the debate!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u242	I'm not gonna take credit for such disgusting suggestions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u243	Please, no characteristic of the speeches!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u244	I make a feature of speeches that were an hour and a half ago, two of my colleagues from the parliamentary group... I just want to say that these are proposals that are being commented on on these errors. They were established by the Bureau of Special Intelligence Control. Mrs. Manolova was the founder of this Bureau. These are practically their proposals. Officially sent to the chairmanship of the relevant committees.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u245	Second line? I won't. That was a statement. Are there any lines to Mr. Lazarov's statement? Mrs. Manolova is heading for the stands. [[Laughter in GERB's block.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u246	To indicate that he's coming out for a line. I thought it was a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u247	Honourable Members, Madam President! Dear Mr. Lazarov, I will miss the mahlenian part of your speech. It's your trademark, and it's not just a bad taste, it's unacceptable machel behavior...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u248	You know how to talk like a bitch. Please, not off the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u249	Sorry, you're also a connoisseur of this behavior.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u250	Get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u251	I asked the importers a specific question: will these proposals affect the outcome of a specific case? Will they create a regime that is more favorable than the one in force? I asked a specific question! I'm asking for a clear answer!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u252	Where was the line here?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u253	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u254	Madam President, although such provocative questions should not be answered in this way, I will allow those who have not bothered to read at all what it is about, to read the amendments: 72 hours has been given to the judges, so that they can motivate them to refuse or authorise special intelligence funds so far has been immediate. Here's the answer to the question. With regard to other amendments. It was reported by the Bureau, cases were taken out in the media when there were mistaken names when unfoundedly contrary to the Law and Chetin Kazak talked about it, permissions were granted for special intelligence funds that are illegal. I immediately recall a specific case of Pernik. Parents whose son has escaped with a sentence have also been admitted by the court to apply special intelligence means, which is clearly contrary to the Law. This has been found, the people have been informed, they have also written to the Commission. Mr. Merdjanov is a member of this Commission, he knows about the case, you should have asked him. Where such cases are identified, or where there is an error in the names, or permission is given for a non-serious crime, what can the relevant committee to the NSA, Directorate or DATO do? What has also been done to inform the court that a mistake has been made, the court to correct its error. If anyone wants to make politics because elections are coming, if someone feels undervalued in their parliamentary group, let them not make such suggestions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u255	Mr. Lazarov, please don't deviate from the strictly legal subject we're on right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u256	Yeah, I answered the question. These are the amendments we are voting on. It's just the law that needs to be read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u257	Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? No. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mr. Slavov's proposal: in § 33, item. 2 for changes in art. 13, para. 3 After the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, there is a point and the new sentence is added. The Minister of the Interior and the President of the National Security Agency can make requests in previous sentences. Vote 82 MPs: 74 against 2, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. We are voting the whole § 33 together with the decision we have just adopted in the version of the Commission report. [[Heckling]] Mr. Slavov withdrew both proposals, so I am not putting them to the vote. Vote 87 MPs: 80 against 6, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u258	The Commission proposes to establish § 34: ................. Paragraph 6, t. 2 shall enter into force after the adoption of the Law under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules Madam President, allow me to make an editorial amendment: instead of.......... after entry into force.........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-27.u259	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the editorial amendment of Mr. Kirilov: instead of the amendment to be made after the entry into force. Vote 89 MPs: 83 against 5, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are voting § 34, in accordance with the editorial amendment. Vote 85 MPs: 79 against 6, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. This was adopted at second reading the modification of the PPC. Tomorrow a regular meeting is held with a starting time of 9:00 p.m. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
