ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u1	There is no quorum in the minute specified for registration. Second attempt in ten minutes. (9,17 h)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u2	Colleagues, second try of registration. There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] [[Next closed session.]] (After the closed session.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u3	The sitting shall continue in the open with a second point provided for today: PROJECT FOR A DECISION ESTABLISHING A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE DISCLOSURE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u4	Here you are, Mrs. Tsacheva, as an importer of the proposal to present the reasons and the draft decision. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u5	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As is known, on 26 May the National Assembly adopted a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Before the adoption of the Bill, working with representatives of all parliamentary groups, we clarified the relevant steps, the approach in which to proceed with the introduction of such a bill. Then I introduced the representatives of the parliamentary groups to the practice so far in the National Assembly in making changes to the Constitution. The initial two changes. First, a Temporary Commission has been set up, which has prepared the texts for the amendment of the Constitution and they have been imported on behalf of the relevant committee. At that time, the participating MPs of the various parliamentary groups united around the second approach, namely after the adoption of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Constitution, to set up the Temporary Commission, which should discuss these proposals, to draw up previously the Rules of Procedure, to propose them to the Chamber for Debate and Voting in order to implement the steps of the Constitution for Change in the Constitution itself. Leaded by these conversations that we have had, by the texts of the Constitution, by the already putting up parliamentary practice, I suggest to your attention the following draft decision: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the establishment of a Temporary Committee to discuss Draft amendment and supplemental bill Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 35 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He established a Temporary Commission to discuss the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-103 of 26 May 2015. 2. The Temporary Commission shall carry out the functions of the committee responsible for the Draft Law under paragraph 1. 1. The Commission shall take decisions and adopt reports and opinions by a simple majority of the Members present. 3. The temporary committee shall consist of 16 MPs from each parliamentary group. 4. elect as Chair, Vice-Presidents and members of the Temporary Commission as follows: Chairman:... Vice-Presidents:............................................. Without, as an importer, suggesting how many vice-presidents to be, I expect this to be a proposal from the plenary. supposes: 5. Within 7 days of its establishment, the Temporary Commission shall propose to the National Assembly Rules on the procedure for the discussion and adoption of the Draft Law under point 1. 1. 6. The Temporary Commission shall be set up for the period of adoption, respectively the rejection of the Bill under paragraph 1. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Why do I and the representatives of GERB propose that this Commission be established on a money-saving principle? The amendment of the Constitution is not within the power of a single parliamentary majority without seeking the support and assistance of the MPs from the other parliamentary groups. It is precisely to signal equality of parliamentary groups, regardless of whether they are politically positioned to support the majority and the country's governance respectively, or have the political characteristic of opposition in this National Assembly, that we believe that the Commission should be formed on this principle, although in previous such committees the principle was proportionate, where the burden with regard to the size of the parliamentary groups you understand falls to the ruling majority. I expect proposals from the parliamentary groups for their representatives in the Commission, I repeat, by two MPs from a parliamentary group, as well as proposals for a chair, and before that it is appropriate to specify the number of Vice-Presidents, after which the proposals will take place, personally, by name, for the Members of the National Assembly, who will become the leader of this Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva, for presenting the reasons and the draft decision. I remind you, honourable Members, that according to art. 85, para. 5 Decisions, declarations and addresses shall be adopted in one vote. The debate goes according to the minutes of each parliamentary group, with speeches, lines and duplicates. I'm opening the debate. You have the opportunity to make speeches on the proposed draft decision and proposals on the structure, i.e. President, Vice-Presidents as number and members. Here you are, fellow Members. Mr. Zelenogorski, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u7	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We in the Reformation Block accept the proposal made for two representatives from each parliamentary group to participate in the Commission. We think that this is a serious effort. It should be an effort of society and the Bulgarian Parliament to change the Constitution, which will give a chance for effective judicial reform, just as almost all the political forces present in the Bulgarian Parliament supported the Strategy for Judicial Reform. In this sense, we in the Reformation bloc hope that there will be consistency in the efforts of all political forces, because otherwise the public will ask the question: did some of the colleagues speak the truth when they supported the idea of judicial reform, or now, when with their actions in practice reject the possibility of constitutional changes that would guarantee effective judicial reform? As far as our participation is concerned, we are making concrete proposals for the participation of colleagues from the Reformation Block. These are Mr. Atanas Atanasov and Mr. Dimitar Delchev. They have already participated in this working group, which has had several meetings and we think it is logical to continue their efforts in this direction. We would make and endeavour to have serious changes that would guarantee effective judicial reform. As far as Vice-Presidents are concerned, we will wait a little longer to hear the opinions of colleagues from other groups before proposing or supporting a specific number of Vice-Presidents and possibly making our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u8	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. Do you have an idea for a number of vice-presidents? [[Heckling]] Okay, you'll wait for other proposals. Thanks for the speech. - What's the line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? Mr. Tsvetanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u9	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to congratulate all my fellow Members who have joined in collecting signatures. You know that 60 were the necessary signatures to begin this procedure. GERB's parliamentary group turned to all parliamentary parties with only one hope that the dialogue would be thorough, and that we would actually get the broadest support so that these 132 signatures, which were actually submitted to the Bulgarian Parliament's Lawmaking, would give the beginning of exactly what we set ourselves as a goal. The forty-third parliament has shown that parliamentary majorities can be formed to give a chance for real reforms. The very fact that we managed, within the framework of the forty-third Parliament, to elect a chief judicial inspector, has shown that we can actually form majorities that will be useful for the important, national-strategic objectives of the state, regardless of who manages and who forms the parliamentary majority for governance today. What I would like to make as a call is: let in this Commission all representatives of the parliamentary parties represented participate actively, make mutual compromises, so that we can actually get to the amendment of the Constitution with the necessary 180 votes. I believe that this will be the stronger sign than if this change is adopted by 160 votes. The proposal made at the Conference of Presidents yesterday was indeed the biggest opposition force in the Bulgarian Parliament, it is BSP left Bulgaria to have its chairman. I am not hiding from you that the application at issue belongs to a person for whom we have always praised the qualities of the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov and that he can head this Commission. The decision that the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria has is a political decision. We take it into account, but this Commission must have its President, so the GERB Parliamentary Group proposes two members in this Commission - Dimitar Lazarov and Danail Kirilov, such as Dimitar Lazarov, to be considered President of the Commission for a change of the Constitution. I would simply like to address all fellow MPs who may also make their political statements: let us have respect for any parliamentary party represented by the voters of Bulgaria who have their position, their opinion. Therefore, let us not enter into this confrontation, which could actually create tension in the discussions on the substance of the amendments to the Constitution. The parliamentary group of GERB and the representatives of GERB, who will participate in this Commission will adopt absolutely all the proposals that are made by other parliamentary groups that have not joined the signatures to change the Constitution in the face of BSP left Bulgaria, of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, of Ataka. I hope that constructive dialogue will lead to the final result and the goal we are putting on ourselves to change the Constitution. And let the time for the work of this Commission be as long as it enables this majority to be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u10	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. You suggested members. Any lines to the statement? I can't see. Mr. Simeonov, you have declared a wish to speak. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u11	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! First of all, Mr. Tsvetanov, you missed the representative of the group who signed in third place by accident. [[Noise and lines.]] It doesn't matter. You spelled them out by name, but we won't pretend to be affected. [[Comments from GERB: "We have listed those who did not sign! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u12	Please don't enter into a debate with the House, Mr. Simeonov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u13	Mr. Tsvetanov, you have been asked not to enter into a debate, please. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u14	Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u15	From the group of the Patriotic Front, I propose Christian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov, as members of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u16	With regard to Vice-President, you have no idea. Thank you. Replies to Mr. Simeonov's statement? There are no official lines. Thank you. Next statement please, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As we had stated in advance, despite our deep reservations to the draft amendment and supplement to the Constitution, we are ready to participate in the debates and in the work of the Temporary Commission, where we will expect to hear arguments from the importers first on the need for these changes; secondly........................... the proposed changes with the objective pursued, namely improving the functioning of the judiciary; third......... to hear the arguments regarding constitutional relevance in terms of the allocation of powers between the ordinary and the Grand National Assembly of the proposed changes, so we expect to hear serious arguments on the issues we have raised. However, I would like to make a proposal precisely in the light of the announcement made by Mr. Tsvetanov to achieve the maximum broad agreement between the political forces on this project and, if we want to seek such consensus, this must also be enshrined in the status of this Commission, which is defined in this decision. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Tsacheva, I propose an editorial amendment to this point. 2 of the draft decision, where reference is made to the way and procedure for the decision-making by the Commission and the adoption of reports and opinions. The importer is currently proposing that these decisions, reports and opinions be adopted by a simple majority of the present MPs. This means that they can be adopted by even 5 votes.. something which is far from the vicified intention to achieve the maximum broad agreement and representativeness of the decisions taken by this Commission, so I propose to change this text and instead of the words:.......................................... by a simple majority of its members......................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u18	From the list?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u19	From the members of the Commission, from the total number of members of the Commission. It will thus be clear that all decisions, opinions, reports of the Commission will be adopted by a minimum of representatives of the parliamentary groups and the political forces, which will guarantee the broad agreement that we are all talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u20	Thank you. Just to suggest possible members and an idea for vice-presidents.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u21	The colleague Tuncher Kardzhaliev will propose our representatives.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u22	Thank you for your speech. - What's the line? Mrs. Tsacheva, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u23	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kazak, I accept your offer. In general, the meaning of the decisions being adopted by a simple majority of such important in the light of the subject matter has been suggested by the Commission, in line with the fact that it is formed on a parietal principle. If the principle of proportional representation of the parliamentary groups were reproduced in view of their size, then I would undertake to propose by a qualified majority, similar to what is required for the vote of a Draft Constitutional Amendment, to be also in the Commission. I accept your proposal and call on my fellow Members to support in the vote the editorial amendment made by Mr Kazak. It's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva. Second line? I won't. Any further comments? Here you go, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u25	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! As is clear from the words of Mr Kazak, the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will participate with its representatives in this Commission. We accept the money representation and propose two members. We don't have a proposal, we don't have any attitude towards the vice-presidential seats. We offer as members the Chetin Kazak and Hamid Hamid. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u26	Thank you, Mr. Kardzhaliev. Replies to that statement? There are no other people willing to offer. Next statement? In BSP there are silent consultations. Speeches, honourable colleagues? Mr. Merdjanov, we expect a proposal from you as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, BSP left Bulgaria will also join this universal parliamentary effort with its contribution. Yesterday, our position was stated. I can't help but thank Mr. Tsvetanov for his good and flattering grades for Mr. Yanaki Stoilov. He really deserves them. We will therefore propose no less worthy and respected lawyers in the face of Mrs. Maya Manolova and Mr. Chavdar Georgiev as Commissioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u28	Thank you. Any further comments? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of our parliamentary group in the work of the Commission, we propose to include Mrs Krasimira Kovachka and Mr. Yavor Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u30	Thank you. There's no ambition to a vice-president's seat. Here you go, Professor. Borisov, make a statement on behalf of ABB and offer your members.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u31	Thank you. On behalf of the parliamentary group for members of the Commission, we propose Lachezar Nikiforov and Kiril Tsochev. We are convinced, and we hope that this Commission will hold fruitful talks and discussions on amendments to the Constitution. We have no claim to vice-presidential seats.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u32	I get it. Thank you. Any other speeches? Professor Stanilov, I see that you are heading for the stands on behalf of the Ataka to make proposals. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u33	We generally believe that before changing the Constitution, it should be respected, which does not work in Bulgaria, and I can point out a number of examples. I've collected a whole file of how we pass laws in violation of this Constitution, but that's not the word here. We will participate in this Commission. We haven't decided who's going to participate. One will be Yavor Notev, the question is the second person. We'll give it to you further by the end of this session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u34	Thank you. I am recording Mr. Yavor Notev and a vacancy, which will be taken by a representative of the Parliamentary Group of the Party. Any other speeches? Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u35	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! On behalf of the Reformation Block, I am proposing for two Vice-Presidents as a structure - one President and two Vice-Presidents. Mr. Atanas Atanasov. Thank you. [[Laughter, excitement and noise from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u36	Any lines besides the ones who heard each other on the move?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u37	He only made suggestions. Mr. Zelenogorski is speaking and there are no lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u38	Thank you. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. Mrs. Tsacheva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u39	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In view of those we have heard, the positions requested by the representatives of the parliamentary groups and the proposals received make it clear that there is a vision to have one Vice-President, as such a personal proposal has been made. That is why editorialally in the draft decision I introduced you to, I propose to be a Vice-President. Unless there's at least one more proposal coming up here right now to be plural, as I suggested. However, given that there is only one candidate for Vice-President, I am making an editorial proposal to the draft decision to be: the President, Vice-President and Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva, I note. Replies to this proposal? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate and we're going to vote. First, we will vote, in the order of the proposals received, both editorial amendments. The first editorial amendment was proposed by Mr. Kazak: 2 of the draft decisions which he proposes:... shall decide and adopt reports and opinions by a simple majority of the members of the Commission............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Please vote. They voted 132 MPs: 130, against 1, abstention 1. The proposal for editing is accepted. Honourable Members, we are now voting on the second editorial amendment: To have a vice-president. Please vote on the editorial proposal. They voted 130 MPs: 115, against 1, abstention 14. The proposal for a Vice-President has been accepted. Honourable Members, I will now read the entire draft decision, including with the personal proposals, with the President and Vice-President: Project! DECISION To set up a Temporary Commission to discuss Draft amendment and supplemental bill Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 35 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He established a Temporary Commission to discuss a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-103, of 26 May 2015. 2. The Temporary Commission shall carry out the functions of the committee responsible for the Draft Law under paragraph 1. 1. The Commission shall take decisions and adopt reports and opinions by a simple majority of the members of the Commission. 3. The temporary committee shall consist of 16 MPs from each parliamentary group. 4. elect as Chair, Vice-President and members of the Temporary Commission as follows: President Dimitar Lazarov, Vice-President Mr. Atanas Atanasov, and members: Dimitar Delchev, Danail Kirilov, Hristian Mitev, Emil Dimitrov, Chetin Kazak, Hamid Hamid, Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Krasimira Kovatchka, Yavor Haytov, Lachezar Nikifov, Kiril Tsochev, Yavor Notev and representative of the Parliamentary Group of Ataka. 5. Within seven days of its establishment, the Temporary Commission shall propose to the National Assembly rules on the procedure for the discussion and adoption of the Draft Law under paragraph 1. 1. 6. The Temporary Commission shall be set up for the period of adoption, respectively the rejection of the Bill under paragraph 1. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Honourable Members, please vote on the proposed draft decision, including with the editorial amendments adopted just now, and the Commission's staff, the President, Vice-President and Members. Please vote. Vote 136 MPs: 118, against 4, abstention 14. The proposal is adopted by which the draft decision has been fully adopted. Thank you. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR Customs. Importer is the Council of Ministers of 24 April 2015. Reports from three committees have been filed. Let us first hear the report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I ask for permission in the hall of Feizy Bekir (Deputy Minister of Finance), Ludmila Petkova (Director of the Department of Tax Policy) in the Ministry of Finance, and Stanislava Yordanova (Director of the Directorate of Legal and Normal Activities) in the Office of Customs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u42	Thank you. Honourable Members, vote on the admission of the listed persons. Vote 78 MPs: for 77, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the listed persons to the Chamber. There's a word for procedure, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm making a procedural proposal. Since the draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Customs Act under consideration concerns the Ministry of Transport and, above all, the Ministry of Interior, please invite the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications or their alternates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u44	Mr. Iankov, we will announce your proposal and, if possible, I hope the ministers will be invited to address the issue. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u45	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Amending and Supplemental Bill of the Customs Act At its meeting held on 14 May 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act. The meeting was attended by Feizi Bekir, Deputy Minister of Finance, Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Department of Finance, Iskra Gurbelova, Head of Department at the Department of Finance, Stanislava Yordanova, Director of the Directorate of Legal and Normal Activities and Tsetka Docheva. The bill with importer The Council of Ministers was presented by Mr. Feizy Bekir. The draft Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act has been drawn up in order to align national legislation with the customs legislation of the European Union and to refine the provisions in order to facilitate their practical application. In particular, the amendments concern the following: - Introduction of psychological fitness tests for appointment and promotion in the Office of Customs and providing legal opportunity for temporary transfer of customs officers. - Realization by the Customs Agency of goods held by the customs authorities. The entire detention, seizure, storage, participation in procedures for their withdrawal and implementation, including destruction, shall be carried out at the Customs Office. Until now and by virtue of art. 3, para. 1, t. 13 of the Law on the National Revenue Agency (NRA) the customs authorities handed over to the NRA the stolen and abandoned goods for the benefit of the state. - A change in the administrative act setting out unpaid public government claims established by the customs authorities. In this context, a change to the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code is also envisaged, according to which the decision of the customs authorities is explicitly referred to as a enforceable ground (replaced by decision). - Recruitment of the provision relating to interest rates for the charge. The customs authorities will charge and collect the legal interest on the amount of customs duties due and other public public claims as from the day following the date of expiry of the fixed payment period until the date of payment. - Repeal of provisions due to the direct applicability of provisions of European acts (Regulations) to be applied directly by the Member States of the EU and it is not necessary to contain them in national law "Council Regulation (EEC) No 2913/92 of 12 October 1992 establishing the Community Customs Code and Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 July 2008 laying down requirements for accreditation and market surveillance relating to the marketing of products and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 339/93. - Exchange of information between the Ministry of Interior and the Customs Agency by regulating access to automated information systems. - Upgrade of sanctions in cases of re-smuggling of goods. - Precise the provision for withdrawal for the benefit of the State of the goods subject to a customs infringement. Introduction of art. 255 of the Criminal Code in the circle of crimes for which the investigating customs inspector has material competence to carry out investigative actions. The provision aims at greater speed and effectiveness in the detection of crimes related to the avoidance and non-payment of excise duty and VAT in large proportions due to the interaction between the control body and the investigating authority which are in the same office. - Instructing the customs authorities to carry out operational and military activities in the exercise of their powers in the prevention, detection and crossing of crimes under art. Article 234, Art. Art. 242, Art. Article 242a, Art. 242a, Art. 242a, Art. 242a, Art. 242a, Art. 242a, Art. 242a, Art. 242a, Art. 242a, Art. 242a, Art. 242a, Art. 242a, Art. 242a, Art. 242a, Art. 242a, Art. 242a, Art. 242a, Art. 242a, Art. 242a, Art. 242a. Art. 251 and under art. 255 of the Criminal Code concerning VAT obligations on imports and excise duties. The operational and search activities as the authority of the customs authorities will allow for more effective interaction between the search and investigation authorities, as at the time of detection of the offences, the investigating authority is a customs authority and the authority authorised to carry out operational and search activities is an authority of the Ministry of Interior which requires additional interdepartmental coordination and leads to a delay in the proceedings. The convoy activity on the territory of the country will be carried out by customs officers. - A legal definition of the concept of a alleged infringement is proposed in order to introduce clarity and determination for both customs authorities and economic operators in the application of a number of customs provisions relating to the identification or verification of the absence of serious infringements. At the heart of the criterion for determining the offence as a serious infringement, the amount of the sanction imposed as an expression of the burden of public danger of the specific infringement, individualised in accordance with the requirements of the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. - The control carried out by the customs authorities at the border crossing points and in the country's territory shall be extended in the prevention and detection of infringements of customs and excise legislation. 91a of the Road Transport Act. This is in order to increase efficiency in carrying out activities to prevent and detect infringements of customs and excise legislation. The proposed addition is related to the implementation of the commitments of the Customs Agency on the collection of road charges at border crossing points and aims to create a mechanism aimed at avoiding compulsory payments (taxes) by carriers by concealing the actual distance travelled on the country's Republican road network. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held. The members of the Budget and Finance Committee have expressed their principled support for the draft so proposed. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: with 11 votes for the draft, without abstention and 5 votes, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on the Transport.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Ivanova. The next opinion is from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mrs. Anna Alexandrova, you are welcome to present the report to the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act No 502-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 April 2015. At its meeting held on 7 May 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act, No 502-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 April 2015. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Finance Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Department of Tax Policy and Mrs. Irena Hristova, Senior Expert Directorate of Tax Policy. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Ludmila Petkova. The bill aims, on the one hand, to bring national legislation into line with the customs legislation of the European Union and, on the other hand, to introduce measures to prevent infringements of customs and excise legislation. Proposals for amendments may be divided into several groups. The first group is related to the employees of the Office of Customs and includes proposals for the introduction of professional and psychological fitness tests for appointment and promotion in office, for the introduction of a basic training course, for the regulation of the possibility of temporary relocation and regulation of the right of uniformed clothing. The second group of proposals aim to improve the arrangements for the disposal of goods seized or abandoned for the benefit of the State, and it is envisaged to be carried out by the authorities of the Office of Customs, as the current order for their implementation by the authorities of the National Revenue Agency leads to unnecessary delays and involvement of administrative capacity. The third group aims to change the rules of the administrative act setting out unpaid public government claims established by the customs authorities. The change in the current framework providing for the issuance of two separate administrative acts (decision and decree) subject to an individual appeal aims to increase efficiency in the recovery of public claims. The following groups of proposals are related to the clarification of existing provisions (e.g. the interest on late payment and the withdrawal for the benefit of the State of the goods, the subject of a customs infringement). It is envisaged that provisions contained in European Union regulations be repealed in the light of their direct applicability. Another group of amendments concerns the rules of sanctions.. It is envisaged to increase them in cases of repetition, as well as to establish the lower limit of the penalty for the infringement under art. 238a. The concept of a serious infringement shall be introduced. In relation to the optimization of the activity, the competence of the customs authorities in investigating a crime under art. 255 of the Criminal Code; the powers of the customs authorities are introduced to carry out operational and search and convoy activities in the cases envisaged by the Law and the exchange of information between the Ministry of Interior and the Customs Agency. An extension of the controls carried out by the customs authorities at border crossing points and within the territory of the country is envisaged in order to prevent and detect infringements of customs and excise legislation by proposing an amendment to the Road Transport Act concerning the conduct of checks on motor vehicles carrying out freight transport. People's representatives Emil Dimitrov, Dimitar Delchev, Cetin Kazak, Danail Kirilov, Svilen Ivanov and Yavor Notev took part in the discussion of the Bill. Some of them expressed doubts as to the need for the new powers envisaged for customs authorities and the introduction of professional and psychological fitness tests, while the others expressed principled support for the bill given the objectives set by it to optimise the activities of customs authorities and to refine the provisions in force. Following a vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 10 votes for....................................................................................................... and 3 votes...............................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. The latest report is from the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. The report will be presented by Mr. Dedev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act No 502-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers On 24 April 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) At its meeting held on 13 May 2015, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act, No 502-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 April 2015. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Ministry of Finance: Feizy Bekir The draft was presented by Deputy Minister Feyzi Bekir, who highlighted the importance of the proposed changes and listed all the more important ones related to the introduction of the psychological suitability tests in appointment and promotion in office in the Customs Agency and providing legal opportunity for temporary movement of customs officials: the realization of goods held by customs authorities; a change in the administrative act setting out unpaid public claims; the annulment of provisions in the Act due to direct applicability of provisions of European acts; the exchange of information between the Ministry of Interior and the Customs Office; the promotion of sanctions in the case of goods smuggling; the extension of the powers of customs officers to investigate tax crimes only in respect of VAT from imports and excise duties; the assignment of customs authorities to carry out operational search and convoy activities in the exercise of their powers in the prevention, detection and crossing of customs and tax offences. From the Customs Agency "Stanislava Yordanova" Director of the Legal and Normal Activities Directorate supported the submitted proposals as timely and important and pointed out that the introduction of provisions for carrying out operational and search activities will greatly facilitate the investigation of crimes within the object and scope of the investigating customs inspectors. Tsetska Docheva, Head of the Department of Administrative and Criminal Affairs and Investigative Authorities, Office of Customs, noted that in carrying out operational and search activities with the proposals submitted, the customs authorities will not be able to carry out an operational search related to the implementation of special intelligence funds, operational deployment, controlled supplies and trust transactions. In the subsequent debate the MPs Stefan Dedev, Ivan Ivanov, Krasimir Yankov, Svetoslav Belemezov and Mustafa Karadayi took part in the debate. The statements by the MPs were united in support of the bill, but doubts were expressed about the effectiveness of the actions and the need to expand the powers of the staff of the Customs Agency in the investigation of tax crimes. As a result of the debates held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 9 votes for the Council of Ministers, 1 vote against the Council of Ministers, and 3 votes abstentions, supported the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Customs, No 502-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 April 2015, and proposed that the National Assembly adopt it in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u50	Thank you, Mr. Dedev. We're going into discussion mode on the bill. Mr. Dimitrov, you're the first to raise your hand. Please come in for a statement. [[The National Representative Emil Dimitrov goes to the stands, wearing a customs police vest, a framework with customs pages, papers, a book and other materials.]] Do you need help? No. You have the floor to speak and to show.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I would like to say that today is a very happy day for me personally, because one of my ideas from 15 years ago is about to take place. Of course, within the limits and powers that you allow. To make it easier for me, I've been trying to write some things here. You see, these are the Pagons of the former customs police. [[Shows the frame on which the hoses are on]] . Here's a vest, we've written books. I'm gonna take the liberty of reading my speech, or I'm gonna have a hard time saying it by heart. The debate on the amendment of the Customs Act is pending. This means, as you have already heard, pre-trial proceedings on all crimes related to the violation of the customs administration's scope of activity. Means the right and possibility of detention; for convoy of detained persons; carrying out operational and search activities and many others. In essence, these texts create an opportunity for customs to have the so-called Customs Police. It's a short story. At the time when I had the honour of being the Director of the Customs Department, known as the Customs Agency at the moment, I was asked for a concept of how to develop, what measures, powers, restructuring. This concept was translated into English, then again in Bulgarian, and it was worth 100 million to Bulgaria. Foreigners who read our concept gave us advice on it. We didn't pay them. But that's over. What did we do then? Two thousand and a first year, we created the customs police modeled for France, America. The U.S. Embassy sent a whole container of equipment; the Germans sent money for mobile; the Israelis gave radio stations. We have encountered all institutional international support and very little in our country to say nothing. The Ministry of Interior gave national call sign, access to the entire radio network, frequency range. We created mobile groups, drug trafficking and smuggling, operation center, trade smuggling. We've set up an Air and Marine Control Analysis Center. Of course, all of this was within the framework of both.... Customs Intelligence and investigation of drug trafficking... Customs Intelligence and investigation of trade smuggling....................................................................................... Here is this concept, which was worth 100 million and was actually written in Bulgaria. [[Shows the concept.]] There are two sections in it. The first one is the Customs activity. The second one is the Customs police. I will read you a brief text from a declassified document written by me to the then Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior. He's the guy who gave the bulletproof vests here to come ours from abroad, he was signing for the blue lights, for the checkpoints, where he and the DMV would carry out the checks. It's read by me now and it's written by me, but underneath it are the signatures of a lot of people who then became generals. Because here, for example, in the parliamentary group, is General. Atanasov. His two officers led the intelligence and investigation. They're state's attorneys today. Tsvetan Tsvetanov took part in this document. Then he was the right hand of the Secretary-General, who then became a minister and is currently chairman of a parliamentary group; Tsvetomir Pawnov, who helped me, also close to my heart. I mean, neither the Secretary-General nor I could do it without this team of people who could help us and help us unreservedly. I would like to stress here from the stand that Boyko Borisov was the only person who had direct merit for my appointment to the Customs Agency and the advocacy that I would become the director and the only one who agreed to sign a Memorandum of Cooperation... the only document on which we created the customs police. The document is very interesting. It is part of everything:.. I request for the needs of customs police and mobile groups working in the field of drug trafficking to be provided up to 10 security vests, blue lamps, SUVs and so on. Most important, because it has the signature of the then Secretary General. By the way, when I left, he even offered me to join the Ministry of Interior. The customs police were closed under this Law, on 20 February 2002, my birthday. I bought them a drink this morning, I said goodbye, I gave my resignation, after lunch they were disbanded because the only legal basis to work besides our desire with the Secretary-General at the time was this Memorandum of Cooperation. Maybe it wasn't the time, maybe it wasn't us people, maybe it wasn't the right parliament. Two years later, I wrote this book. [[Shows the book.]] It's where all these customs officers, cars were taken in the back. On page 1, page 1, 151 is Head of Customs Police. There is a detailed explanation of what is about to happen today, perhaps?! Now, 14 years later, because this was 2001, I'm in a room where I see people I've worked with, who are now in different political forces. Mr. Rosen Petrov has done extremely much to promote this activity. [[Applause by Vice-President Yavor Haytov.]] Even this vest. [[shows customs police vest]] I gave it to him once, and I told him that this institution was closed, he could safely wear it, but if he ever recovers, he'd have to give me my vest back. Rossene, you owe me a vest. This is Gen. Atanasov, who also suffered from the then government. Tsvetan Tsvetanov became Minister. There's no Ahmed Dogan here, he's retired now, but his heir is here, and we did a lot of good work at the time, and we prevented what's called the Turkish sapio. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] I understand the discontent. So to say at the customs door I got away with a prominent representative of the BSP who is currently dissatisfied, he then became your minister. He also knows these problems. Or from 8 formations, as you can see, in half there are people who were then empathetic to these problems. The then Secretary General today is Prime Minister and has his majority, willpower and desire something that he could not do then, something that we failed to do together, we created together, and then it was destroyed, today to happen. Like I said, maybe it wasn't us then and it wasn't the time. But here comes the time when the customs administration has to get much wider powers. It is competent and can cope and this will be an instrument that will fill the budget of the state. It's supposed to happen. It's good to happen. As I have said more than once, the Customs must be an instrument of the state and not of the parties. If so far the groups had settled in the country and shopped all over the country, it is high time to remove them. It's one of the tools. It will benefit all subsequent governments because we are creating an institution today, and we are not creating powers for a particular person. It may not be appropriate for certain employees, but they will pass and leave, the institution will remain. My parliamentary group has authorised me to state our intentions that we will all support this bill, which has been tabled by the Council of Ministers. First, because it's a natural continuation of what I was trying to do, I did, and then it was destroyed. Then because they are convinced that this should be there in Bulgaria and it should be there in this way, because otherwise the institution can be liquidated. I'm sure at a later stage, good decisions can come. As I said in the beginning, today is a very happy day for me, because what I believed in, what I did and what I managed to survive because they burned down my house and everything burned down. That's what's left of the pagons we had there, the hats, police lights, inscriptions, bulletproof vests. But it was an institution that had to start working. I am sure that many people will speak against this institution, others will say: "Why is it needed? " My personal opinion and my parliamentary group is that we will support this bill. This is important and it is high time for customs to take place, as I have already said, an instrument of the state and not of the groups. I call on you, too, to join the discussion and adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u52	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Replies to Mr. Dimitrov's statement? I can't see. To speak, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u53	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm not gonna tell you any memories, I'm not gonna pull documents out of the archives to mention today's politicians. I will speak specifically on this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u54	In principle, according to the philosophy of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u55	The philosophy of the Law, exactly. Agree that the colleague who spoke before me took the opportunity to recall his personal memories and facts from his CV, from the premier's biography. Specifically under the law. Reading the reasons and looking at the texts proposed, I also had the opportunity of the Internal Security and Public Order Commission itself to take the attitude, but first with the proposed amendment and supplement of the Customs Act, it is proposed that there should be explicit tests of psychological suitability when appointing and promoting in office in the Customs Agency and providing legal opportunity for temporary transfer of customs officials. In the justification, a framework of competences for the customs profession in the European Union has been used speculatively, one of the three main directions in the so-called "Dublin Strategy". I would like to note to my fellow Members that the provisions of the Law on the Civil Service Act are applied in the course of entering a government office in the customs administration, according to the Council of Ministers' Ordinance on the conduct of competitions for civil servants. The text of the so-made proposal for psychological suitability contradicts the Law on the Civil Service Officer, also contradicts the Ordinance on the conduct of the competitions. In carrying out these competitions, professional qualities according to the provisions of the regulations are the leading ones. I note: there is no such practice in another revenue administration! There's no such regulation! And quite rhetorically the question arises: are we going to introduce such psychological fitness tests into the NRA? I move on to the following motives, and I note that the problem of the effectiveness of the work of the Customs Agency is not with the legal framework, but with its implementation, the implementation by the Customs Agency of the goods contained by the customs authorities. The whole process is detention, seizure, storage, participation in withdrawal procedures, realization, including destruction to be carried out by the Customs Agency. At this time, the commitments of the Return Agency, the National Revenue Agency have been changed. Where is the danger and what can happen? These changes create conditions for lack of control. The Customs Agency will confiscate and then dispose of these goods. There's been a delay. I'm paying attention to the lack of coordination. And the problem is not the regulation, it is not the regulation, it is the coordination between different administrations. There are opportunities in which an office can control the entire process, which I think should not be allowed. There is an exchange of information between the Ministry of Interior and the Customs Agency in the reasons and in the texts regarding communication with another office. It is regulated, but it is not clear what exactly is going to happen? exchange of information between the Ministry of Interior and the Customs Agency? by regulating access to automated information systems. This means that officials from the Customs Agency will have access to the information system and the information base of the Ministry of Interior. How will they be used, what regulation will they have the opportunity to use, and what part of this information will they be able to use? We come to the possibility of police functions of officers of the Customs Agency, assigning the customs authorities to carry out operational and military activities in the exercise of their powers in the prevention, detection and crossing of crimes under art. 234, 242, 242a, 251 and under art. 255 of the Criminal Code concerning VAT obligations on imports and excise duties. The crimes of the listed members of the Criminal Code of VAT, import and excise duties are explained to result in greater speed and efficiency in the detection of crimes. Until now, the Customs Agency has the opportunity to perform some of these functions and activities of the Ministry of Interior. However, with this amendment, we will now get to the possibility of staff from the Customs Agency holding, arresting, including operational and search activities. Excuse me, at the time of detection of the crimes, the investigative authority is a customs authority and the authority authorised to carry out operational search activities is an authority of the Ministry of Interior which requires further inter-agency coordination and leads to a delay in production. This is explained in the motives. However, colleagues, operational and search activities are currently under the legal framework, carrying out the General Directorate of Organized Crime. Operational and search activities performed by the SANS. The Economic Police also performs operational and search activities in relation to smuggling. Operational and search activities carried out Border Patrol. With regard to drugs, it is with the assistance of the district attorney's office in the case of a crime in respect of goods of high value, it is mainly excise goods, and the district prosecutor is also the lead. All this will be duplicated by employees of the Customs Agency system. Nothing but recognition of a lack of coordination between institutions. The request for police functions, including the written and convoting of persons, what does it aim? To ease the Ministry of the Interior or is it a definite accusation that the Ministry of the Interior is not dealing with the activities it is involved in? Including these amendments to the Customs Act somewhere in the Transitional and Final Provisions, excuse the last, we also amend the Road Transport Act. Colleagues, pay attention to art. 91a, with regard to the powers of the Executive Agency "Automobile Administration"...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Why is that necessary? It is a recognition that including an agency in the structure of the Ministry of Transport and Information Communications will be duplicated the activity of this administration. I therefore took the opportunity to invite representatives of the Ministry of Interior, representatives of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications before the debate itself began...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u56	I just want to let you know that once you graduate, two deputy ministers will be allowed to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u57	It is normal to take into account the so proposed amendments and additions, because these proposals are directly accused of the work of structures in these ministries. We recognise the Ministry of Interior's inability to work effectively, at the same time, are the manner of a police approach to introduce such an approach to the revenue agency, which is a way to obtain a structure with non-military functions. What does Bachvarova think about the changes made? And Borisov himself? Does he accept these accusations of proposed ministers in Borisov's cabinet? Are the members of the cabinet of the Council of Ministers aware that they remind for a period qualified by Bulgarian citizens as police? I conclude by saying that the problem of the effectiveness of the work of the institutions, including the Customs Agency, is not in the laws and regulations. The problem is the desire and opportunities to be applied! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u58	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Iankov, in the Forty-second National Assembly you created some groups in the PDK there were changes that were doing and doing just that right now because they exist, which is being done and now with this Law the functions of the Revenue Agency were being replaced to carry out controls concerning the shipments. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] There were inaccuracies, we asked questions back then. How exactly are you going to check the decoupage cargo? Because in a container, for example, there can be fast-breaking goods and not such. Who gives you the right to publish and so on? Then, Mr. Yankov, between first and second readings, we made the relevant proposals, some of which you accepted, and the Law is currently in effect. So, when we speak at first reading, let's not look at the texts that are the specific paragraphs of the Law, we can do this between first and second readings, and we can submit the proposals in order to move forward and to make things the way they should be. I've also been in opposition, it's very easy for the opposition to criticize, but it's not constructive. Again, such changes have been accepted with you in the PDK. Why can't it happen now? We're looking for better control, aren't we? Or you don't want to have control! At first reading there is talk about politics, about the philosophy of the bill, and between first and second reading you can make, again I say, the relevant proposals that you think will be more working to discuss them, and as you have accepted some of ours, so we can accept if they lead to better. So let's not smoke here just because we're in opposition and criticize the government. Give me something more concrete and more constructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u60	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. For the second line, Mr. Bayraktarov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague Yankov, I wonder if you have really carefully read these texts. In my mind the question arises to you: in fact you want the smuggling of excise goods to develop out of control? If I have to argue now in my line to you, first, I will ask you some simple and simple questions from my practice as an investigative journalist. It is a public secret, not to say more precisely, a publicly known fact is the growth of excise goods smuggling, i.e. cigarettes. Now the question arises: according to the legislation in force, if you establish groups that distribute such goods unregulated, illegal, and which are in violation of several laws, you must inform the Organized Crime Squad? However, this same unit, since I have done so many times, appears to have no capacity because they have not been trained in this direction. The only thing this squad could have done was run a background check on my personal documents and on the persons I've identified as making such sales. Usually, however, they stand at the entrance of their home and the squad cannot even enter. It turns out that this capacity is also lacking in the authorities of the NRA. And since I have repeatedly written letters and signaled, the NRA politely referred me to the customs authorities. Colleague Iankov, I am asking you now: are these measures that, first of all, we will save financial resources, we will save human resources and, most importantly, we will allow trained people with the capacity to do this work that I suppose you want to do, too, to limit smuggling? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u62	Thank you. Third line? I can't see. Mr. Iankov, the dodger.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Ivanov, the text is specific. You know how specific the text is and how it overlaps the powers of employees of the Executive Agency. To Mr. Bayraktarov. I welcome proposals that will correct the actual amendment proposal and supplement to the Law between first and second readings. Otherwise, it is up to you at the moment to control those who are ruling the majority, those who have broadcast the executive power and do not justify yourself with the opposition. To Mr. Bayraktarov. To stand before you, fellow Members, I have read the proposed texts very carefully. You haven't read them. It's not a problem with the regulations. I have repeated it, and now for the third time specifically for you, the problem is the implementation of the laws and this regulation. And if you think that the employees of the Customs Agency system will have the competence to replace the investigating officers, to replace the employees of the Ministry of Interior, you are mistaken, you are mistaken. Otherwise, frankly, I didn't understand what squad you were talking about, because according to the Ministry of Interior Act there is a General Directorate for Combating Organized Crime, it has its headquarters on the ground. Which one's the squad? I note that the ruling majority has adopted the amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act in order to combat organised crime in order to have this unit to carry out these functions. You must also read the Newsletter of the Ministry of Interior, of the districts.... persons are held daily and excise goods are confiscated, mostly cigarettes. What happens after that as an investigation? The problem is again with you, the ones you manage, the ones you broadcast ministers who are incapable of doing the job. What are the measures to be taken to curb smuggling? Compliance with the Law. It's not the law! If I have to use one example, the competences of any employee who is regulated in respect of the performance of his duties are strictly specific, including when it comes to investigating, holding and stopping a vehicle, the approach in which he communicates with the citizen in his person as a driver of a motor vehicle is also specific. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Do customs officials have the competence right now? No!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u64	Please graduate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u65	I'm graduating. And this is subject to training, but we have institutions, bodies that have trained people, just have to comply with the Law and do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u66	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Now I hope to have a quorum, as I will put to the vote your procedural proposal for admission in Mr. Tsypov's room, Deputy Minister of Interior, and Mr. Ginev, who is Deputy Minister of Transport. I'm voting for admission to the room of the two deputy ministers listed just now. Vote 62 MPs: 62 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. Please invite them after the break, as I announce a break within 30 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u67	The hearing is ongoing. There's a word for it, Mr. Dedev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In my speech, I would like to emphasise that the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Customs Act has a single focus which means improving and improving efficiency and procedures in the performance of the duties of the Customs Agency. I do not agree with some of those of the previous colleagues, and I will justify why. Firstly, what has affected some of my fellow Members, the psychological and professional competence, as an element for the selection of civil servants, as are undoubtedly the employees of the Customs Agency, is intended to project the direction, attitude of newly appointed employees and of those who will be promoted in office. It is no secret that there are some young people who direct their attention when applying to the Customs Agency with unhealthy attitudes, so to speak. The aim is to see the degree of loyalty to the state, to the Agency, so that such a test and selection is completely legitimate and logical. With the amendment in the Law, that's allowed. Secondly, about the goods carried out by the Customs Agency. You know that before these goods were stored by the Government Claims Agency, then it was united with the NRA and there is indeed a delay in realization and, if you will, the destruction of certain goods because some of them can be sold and another part must be destroyed. The fact is that at the moment in the warehouses of the NRA they are still warehouses of customs, there are goods that lie down for years, and in fact these are values that would help the Republican budget and the Office of the Ministry of Finance. So improvements in this direction only mean greater efficiency. The change in the administrative act setting out the unpaid public claims established by the customs authorities is intended to increase efficiency in the recovery of public claims and no other objective. So in this regard, things are very correctly pointed out. Precise the provision relating to interest on late payments. There are many claims in both the NRA and customs, which have been delayed for years, while there must be some interest to compensate for this period. There is also the annulment of provisions in the Law because of the direct applicability of the provisions of European acts and regulations, as we are a member of the Community and many of our laws are synchronised with European legislation. Regarding the topic of exchange of information between the Ministry of Interior and the Customs Agency, this is a very important element, as it aims in a very rapid operational order, when there is a fixed customs breach, to be able to collect the necessary information about the perpetrator, possibly his accomplices, type of vehicles and so on. Increase of sanctions in cases of recurrence in smuggling goods. Of course, this is a very important penalty, because there is also a relapse in this direction. It is no secret to everyone that there are persons at some border crossings, most of them from minorities who are dealing daily with the smuggling of excise goods in small sizes, which the customs authorities are struggling with very difficult. Here they are given the opportunity to take measures in this direction. Recruitment of a provision for withdrawal for the benefit of the State of the goods subject to a customs infringement. The details are detailed and it is very important that this law defines the lower limit of sanctions under art. 238a, one lower limit of 200 leva. In order not to allow the subjective factor or duty officer to determine whether the penalty will be 20, 50 or 100 BGN, here is nailed to 200 BGN, which of course is much more objective in order to avoid temptations in other directions. With regard to the commissioning of customs authorities to carry out operational and search activities for the prevention, detection and crossing of crimes, these are only 5 texts of the Criminal Code, and so far customs have had the opportunity to work in this direction, but we are now strengthening the possibility in order to have greater efficiency. I think that both at the border crossings and at airports, there are cases where very quickly you need to gather information about the perpetrator and possibly about his accomplices. And here we allow the customs investigation to carry out activities in this direction without detailing and focusing on these things. And, of course, not at last, the notion of a grave violation is introduced. Of course, customs violations, which are for a lot of money, so to call it, must be qualified, which then in a judicial phase will help in the trial to objectify things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u69	Any lines to Mr. Dedev? Here's your first line, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u70	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Dedev, you didn't sound very convincing in terms of protecting the psychological suitability that's being introduced. You understand that this is an opportunity that will be used for cleansing, dismissals. How exactly will it be regulated and will you be ready to introduce the same suitability for the other revenue agency?! What is the difference with regard to your doubts or expressed in terms of the persons applying for and entering the Office of Customs and those applying for and entering the other revenue agency? Otherwise, you have indeed acknowledged the inefficiency of the work of the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u71	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Second line? There aren't any. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u72	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Yankov, and you are witnessing that there are times when the selection of civil servants can sometimes manifest weaknesses. When such objective errors are seen, it is necessary to correct them. There's nothing wrong with that. Even for employees in the Ministry of Interior system, there is a much heavier selection in these psychological and professional researches. Let these officers of the Customs Agency, who will be really involved in control, do not talk about the clerks in the offices, to be better checked so that everyone can take their seats. Be assured that when such an employee goes to do his job, he will do it in the interests of the state and not in the interests of other things. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] I cannot make a confession and agree with you because the Ministry of Interior and the Customs Agency are also in charge. The Ministry of Interior is also working on such revelations. Didn't the major smuggling revelations come from the Ministry of Interior?! Let us now also assist the Customs Agency to do their job better. I do not agree with your assessment that the Ministry of Interior was not doing its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u73	Thank you. Mr. Slavov, you wanted the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, from the Reformation Block we will support the proposals of the importer Bill. We also accept the reasons that are pointed out that this will increase the capacity of the Customs Agency, it is expected to improve the work of customs, the fight against smuggling and so on. However, we do have one remark, and I must say it. Makes an impression in art. 10, para. 6 that there is a certain retreat from the regime in force, namely with regard to the so-called modern word, the intelligence of the customs officers, i.e. the verification that is done to each customs officer for his property status, the one held by his family under the current law and what their wives or spouses possess. The proposed Bill provides that they will now declare not only the property of their wives or husbands, but only what is a married financial community. I think that I do not need to explain from this tribune that there is a way for a property to become the property of a husband or wife without being a marital financial community and thus fall into the subject of circumstances declared by customs officers. It is correct, as for all of us in this Chamber, as for all persons under the Law on the publicity of the property of persons holding senior government positions, as for all magistrates in this country, that they declare these circumstances in order to be fully transparent and clear every customs officer and his family what he owns and that there really is nothing hidden-covering. To conclude, in this direction we could also consider the revenue employees of the National Revenue Agency and other employees of such risk categories, in the context of the Anticorruption Act, which is being commented and whose preparation is currently under way. Colleagues, it is also intended to declare circumstances for persons who do not have a marriage and live in a common household, i.e. on a marital basis. Therefore, the scope there is further expanded. I think we can borrow something from there as far as customs is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u75	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Mr. Tornowaliski, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We accept proposals for amendments to the Customs Act. In one part, changes are proposed aimed at bringing our legislation to the customs legislation of the European Union. With these proposals, we certainly agree. However, there is no way to agree with the rest of the proposals, some of which are purely discriminatory, and I would even say that they are also in violation of the Constitution. The introduction of texts on psychological suitability for appointment in the Customs Agency and the provision of legal opportunity to the Director for temporary transfer of customs officers we believe to be discriminatory because the civil servants in the Customs Agency are being violated their labour rights. There is a Law on the Civil Serviceman, and these proposals are contrary precisely to this Law. It is also unacceptable to state the reasons for the Law that these psychological texts are requirements almost as a result of compliance with the Arusha Declaration. This Customs Cooperation Council Declaration identifies the main factors for achieving integrity in customs and the main focus is uniformisation of customs practice for eliminating corruption and bureaucratic practices. The civil servant's law regulates the terms, conditions and grounds for the occurrence, modification and termination of service. Its provisions apply to all civil servants, as are the employees of the Customs Agency, except those whose status is governed by a special law, as is the case for the employees of the Ministry of Interior and DANS. The establishment of different or additional higher requirements for a particular category of civil servants is possible, but is justified by the specifics, functions and tasks carried out by those officials, and this is also taken into account when determining the category of work. These increased requirements are compensated by providing a higher level of stability when carrying the public service, which is missing in the new texts. Last but not least in specialized administrations, where such psychological texts are introduced, the main factor for the existence in these administrations is that they have specialized units such as the Institute of Psychology of the Ministry of Interior. The proposed psychological studies thus remain out of control, are not subject to judicial review, which violates the constitutional right of every citizen under art. 120 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to seek protection of its interests through appeal against all administrative acts. With regard to the proposal to move the employees, I stress the movers, not posted, for six months without consent, and for six months with the consent of the employees, I also think that it should not be allowed because we are against the rotation of the employees in the Customs Agency, but let me give an example. An official of the Customs Office from Svilengrad customs must be transferred to Ruse. The employees receive from 600 to 1000 BGN. salary. Since this employee has been transferred, he has not been posted, he will have to pay accommodation, travel expenses, another question is that he leaves his family and relatives somewhere on the other side of Bulgaria. It's his choice. But what do we say to him? You're getting £600. salary, 400 leva. You spend on accommodation and travel and 200 leva. ▪ Is this a fight against these events that we are talking about?! Perhaps we say to him: " Deal with it another way! " I consider this proposal unacceptable, except that it also contradicts the Law on the Civil Service. With regard to the proposal that goods taken in favour of the State by the Customs Agency be realised, sold by the Customs Agency, this is a very long dispute between the two revenue agencies. I find it pointless to transfer this function to the Customs Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u77	Sorry to interrupt, but the group's time is up. Would you like an extension?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u78	I want to, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u79	Please extend the time of all parliamentary groups proportionately. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u80	Colleagues, until yesterday you were explaining how the two agencies should be merged, to be one agency. What are we doing today? We divide one function into two different revenue agencies. I think that the contradiction here is very large and purely operational and I think that this text should not be allowed. We will make our proposals here between the two readings. We heard a lot of motives one way or the other. I believe the administrative capacity of the National Revenue Agency is built. In no case is the delay because sales are carried out by the Revenue Agency. It's a very long subject, and I don't think we need to have this debate here. I believe that the purpose of the proposal is the Customs Agency to retain a function, perhaps to retain some numbers. I say that from my own experience. I will not dwell on everything that is being said about the additional powers given to the authorities of the Customs Agency. Yes, perhaps they are really needed, but it must be very well judged what is being offered. I don't have the emotion of Mr. Dimitrov, but look, by offering all this, if it is a first step or a step towards creating financial police, okay, but if we are going to duplicate units in the Ministry of Interior, DANS, in the NRA, because we should also give such powers in the NRA, I think that this would not be good for exactly the efficiency that you are talking about in terms of the two revenue agencies, and hence the revenues of the state and, ultimately, for national security, because, of course, they are part of this national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u81	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A colleague, of course, in the proposed Bill, are justified proposals made by the Council of Ministers, as our views on effective work of the Customs Agency and effective fight against smuggling are such. That you have another view, nothing prevents you from making proposals between first and second readings, of course, in the direction of improving the texts themselves. However, I would like to focus on something fundamental that you have commented on the so-called integrity texts. A complaint has been lodged from 2014 by an employee who has applied and has not been approved for the position concerned. In this regard, there is a decision of the Supreme Administrative Court of 1 September 2014, respectively the defendant is the Customs Agency. I'd like to introduce you to some of the court's motives. In this case, issues relating to loyalty and integrity in the customs administration system are within the scope of the professional field of employment in a broad interpretation adopted by the authority, including an examination of the applicant's attitude to respect professional and ethical norms of conduct. The setting of requirements for conducting a psychological test is not contrary to the one referred to in art. 27, para. 1 of the Classifier for civil servants aim to check knowledge. Undoubtedly, the applicant is required to have integrity and an attitude towards adherence to established legal, organisational, moral and social norms. There is no distortion of competition based on professional qualities, part of which is the attitude for loyalty and correctness in the performance of the job. In a nutshell, the Administrative Court of the Supreme Administrative Court says that in no way is the person's rights violated, nor is there a contradiction with the legal framework, so you should not have any concerns in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u83	Thank you. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Stoev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Tarnovalyski, you were the Director of the Area Directorate Plovdiv of the NRA. Since I am a colleague of yours, going back in time, there has indeed been a need for the rotation of colleagues, talking for six months, we also had the opportunity to move colleagues. In my day there was also centralisation of the tax administration, which meant that the units in small towns were being closed down and everything was concentrated in the district city. Then the fairy tales were like this: he who wants to follow the tax administration decides to sit in the district city. Anyone who wants to follow her, please come in. It's a healing process. You know that there was talk about the tax administration moving to Veliko Tarnovo on the line of the business or decentralisation, customs to go to Ruse. There were a number of other things in Mr. Borisov's first government that didn't happen anyway. I think that moving employees maybe once in six months, I don't say for example to constantly have such a move, because it does create discomfort, maybe it's healing for the administration and for the whole system. It is also very good research on psychological fitness, because it evaluates by different criteria the candidates and see if they have built morals and sustainability of corrupt practices. There's nothing wrong with that. In a way, maybe this will happen to the tax administration, because you know the road is the same. You know, in 2006, the NRA gathered with the revenue from the NSI. To complete the content to become the National Revenue Agency, perhaps in time the customs and current NRA will be collected. The point is that then these criteria will be imposed for the entire administration "perhaps psychological tests and movement from one unit to another in order not to receive corrupt practices." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u85	Thank you, Mr. Stoev. Third line? I can't see. Mr. Turnover's denture.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u86	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mrs. Yordanova, I don't think I need to explain to you that one decision of the Supreme Court is not a practice. I have expressed my opinion and what we consider on this bill. We believe that this should not be allowed. Yes, when growing up in office, selection or appointment may have an assessment in this regard. But the tests here are referred to what was done in the previous management of the Customs Agency, where there are also many lost cases about them you did not talk about, about which the state will suffer damage, have a completely different purpose, in other order they are conducted. That's why I said we don't have a special law, we don't have a regulation that determines what these psychological tests should be, how they should be conducted, whatever they are under other special laws. What Mr. Stoev did as a comparison Mr. Stoev had nothing in common with the centralisation in the NRA and the proposal to move employees to the Customs Agency. Centralisation in the NRA is a change of relationship with a permanent job and it remains, while moving every six months is a very serious thing! Think about it! There's no one to accept that! Or it will be used to clear the administration. I do not see any other functions. The rotation is good, but conditions must be created for those people who work at the Customs to be able to accept it. Otherwise, it may turn out at some point that the Customs Agency will be left without its good specialists, experts and loyal employees! Once again I ask: who will be this loyal and honest employee of the Customs Agency who receives 1000 BGN. And he pays 500 leva. For accommodation and expenses, even more, in another city?! I don't think there's any way to afford it to be a normal, loyal, honest person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u87	Thank you. Any other speeches? [[Replication by the National Representative Krasimir Yankov: "Procedure!."]] Mr. Iankov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As it became clear that we allowed a representative of the Ministry of Interior in the Chamber, please give him the floor of the proposal to amend and supplement the Customs Act before we proceed to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u89	Thank you. Mr. Tzipov, if you wish to expose your position as an expert, the position of the Ministry of Interior on the bill. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the framework of the coordination procedure of the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers and of its administration, the Ministry of Interior has agreed with notes which have been adopted fully and comply with the requirements of the Rules of Procedure. The notes were aimed at the exchange of information between the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and the Office of Customs. If we want to have an effective counter-smuggling, one way is this normal interaction between the competent authorities. On behalf of the Ministry of Interior, I express a positive opinion on the submitted bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u91	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone willing, dear colleagues. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, the voting regime of the First Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 April 2015. Vote 104 MPs: 88, against 3, abstention 13. The proposal is adopted by which the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act in the first vote. Honourable Members, we move to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE TRADE REGISTER, submitted by the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov on 29 April 2015. The bill I see is aimed at a committee.. the leading one, on legal issues. Mrs. Alexandrova, you have the floor for the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act, No 554-01-82, submitted by Petar Vladislavov Slavov and Martin Dimitrov on 29 April 2015. At its meeting held on 7 May 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act, No 554-01-82, submitted by Petar Vladislavov Slavov and Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov on 29 April 2015. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Elena Markova, Chairman and Mr. Zlatozar Zlatev. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Petar Slavov. The bill provides that instructions to the trader for the removal of irregularities on application are to be sent by e-mail and, where the instructions to the trader on an application for an annual financial report are announced by its electronic account after the expiry of more than a month after receipt, the notification to the trader to be made by e-mail or mail with a return receipt. The proposals made aim at informing the trader in due time of the instructions given and taking action to implement them within the time limit, while at the same time it is expected that the refusals to apply for a declaration of annual financial statements will be reduced. With the presentation of the bill, the importer expressed readiness for the proposals under § 2 to be refined or withdrawn. Ms. Elena Markova and the People's Representative Chetin Kazak took part in the discussion. Ms. Markova voiced support for the proposal for notification to the applicants by e-mail, indicating that it would encourage traders to indicate in the email applications and reduce the costs of sending the communications and notification to the applicants by post. During the discussion, the People's Representative Cetin Kazak expressed his support for the submitted Bill and pointed out that it would facilitate the work of traders and their communication with the Registry Agency. He expressed his view that the notification to traders should only be made by e-mail, which would result in a reduction in the costs of sending messages by letter of return. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs, with 13 votes for the Trade Register Act, No 554-01-82, submitted by Petar Vladislavov Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, on 29 April 2015, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Commercial Register Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Mr. Slavov, please follow the motives of the importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I rarely have the opportunity, I would say in this case, and the pleasure of presenting a bill which has been fully supported by the Commission. Even the abstentions did not exist in the vote, everyone supported it. We are talking about a problem that has been known for a long time and really needs to be solved, and this is the so-called problem with the submission of annual financial statements by traders. You know that the campaign has already started, so if we can quickly accept it, we will probably save a lot of people a lot of nerves and a lot of costs to the Agency itself. The problem arises from the fact that the submission of these annual financial statements results in a large accumulation of financial statements and the Agency processes them for a very long time. Sometimes it takes a few months, sometimes it wasn't even the next year that they announced them. The problem arises from the fact that processing often sees some omission of the applicant. Naturally, if it is notified and removed this omission, the relevant application will be announced and there will be no problem, but when this happens, for example, after six, seven or eight months, and this applicant has long ceased to monitor the account in the Commercial Register what is going on in relation to this application, as it is constantly sitting there and it is being processed, without it being clear how long it will be processed because of the great delay, at one point these instructions appear to him, he has a three-day period to remove the omission which he has allowed upon submission of the application and often this period expires before he has at all understood that he has had instructions to follow. That's why we're bringing in this bill. We have written: when the applicant has indicated e-mail in his application that he will receive the instructions also on it, that is, they will not appear only on the Internet on the account in the Trade Register, and he will receive them by e-mail. We also commented with the Chairman of the Commission Registry Agency on the problem. She expressed principle support that this could be done by upgrading the Agency's platform by agreeing with the argument that this would also save expenditure in practice on the budget and the Registry Agency, and also a lot of human resources, because it would not be necessary then for any given refusal, when these instructions are not met, to send a letter with a return note that costs money, engaging people and so on, and the trader in question must again state the same circumstances and the same procedure should be repeated. They have also given several guidance and suggestions for changes by the Registry Agency, and colleagues have spoken in this direction between the two readings under § 2 will probably have serious changes, but in this direction it will be: when the applicant points out e-mail, to receive the instructions in order to be able to remove the relevant omission and to resolve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u95	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I see you won't. I'm closing the debate. I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs for a vote. We are voting at first reading Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act, No 554-01-82, submitted by Petar Vladislavov Slavov and Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov on 29 April 2015. Voting mode. Vote 77 MPs: for 73, against 2, abstention 2. The bill amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act has been adopted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR TERRITORY TERRITORY ASSISTANCE. There are two proposals by the order of their submission, with importers Petar Slavov and a group of MPs on 11 February 2015, and the Council of Ministers on 28 April 2015. It has been allocated to the main Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Legal Committee. I give the floor to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government to read, I propose, both reports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by making a statement, or perhaps after the reports, a procedural proposal to allow in this House Deputy Minister Nankov and Mr Evgeni Chachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u97	I suggest...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u98	After the reports, maybe.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u99	I hope there's a quorum after the reports, so I suggest we vote now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u100	Okay, then I'm making an official offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u101	Voting regime for access to the hall of Deputy Minister Nankov and Mr. Evgeni Chachev. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. I ask the Quaestors to invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Zelenogorski. The first bill is by Peter Slavov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the The Law on Construction of the Area, No 554-01-29, submitted by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs At its regular meeting on 5 March 2015, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area submitted by Peter Slavov and a group of MPs on 11 February 2015. Mr. Nikolay Nankov, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works took part in the Commission meeting, Mr. Boris Milchev, Head of the Department of Legal Affairs in the Directorate of Architecture and Urban Development. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Petar Slavov. The purpose of the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the structure of the territory is to regulate the status of the parking spaces as separate objects with which to carry out the administrative transactions and, in certain cases, depending on their location, to establish on them a special waitout. At present, in the prevailing part of the cases, the caselaw takes the parking space as belonging to the individual premises in the buildings, and therefore, in the course of carrying out of the authorising transactions, they are sold as ideal parts of the relevant common parts. Opinions of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, of the Ministry of Justice, of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and of the Council of Notaries of the Notary Chamber were presented to the Commission. The opinion of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works expresses the principle support for the need to regulate the status of the parking spaces, while paying attention to the need to refine the proposed provisions. In the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, reservations are expressed on the assumptions proposed in the Bill for the special waitout, paying attention to the danger of excessive destruction of property, provided that the proposal for uniform arrangements of all parking spaces is adopted as separate sites. It is proposed to discuss the possibility, depending on their location, of certain parking spaces to acquire the status of individual sites. The opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria draws attention to the fact that, together with the parking spaces located in buildings, there are also those in public spaces, streets, squares, interblock spaces and others of similar nature, which in the majority of cases are public municipal property, therefore the proposed status against all parking spaces is unacceptable. A similar opinion was expressed by the representative of Sofia Municipality, noting that the issue could be resolved through amendments to the Cadastral and Property Register Act. In the opinion of the Council of Notaries of the Notary Chamber, proposals have also been made to refine the proposed provisions, paying attention to the need for an addition to the Cadastral and Property Register Act. During the discussion, the MPs expressed their basic support for the need to find an adequate legislative solution to regulate the status of the parking spaces by carefully assessing which of them, depending on their location, can acquire the status of individual sites and under certain conditions be subject to legal transactions. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 13 votes in the House, without the opposition and 1 vote in the House, proposes to the National Assembly a Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on Construction in the Area submitted by Peter Slavov and a group of MPs to be adopted in the first vote. With regard to the other Bill: ♪ I can't believe under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area, No 502-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers At its regular meeting on 14 May 2015, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Construction of the Area, No 502 Representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and civil organisations took part in the Commission meeting. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Nikolay Nankov, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The main objective of the Bill is to achieve the relief of administrative procedures and to reduce administrative burdens, while increasing the role and responsibility of the non-governmental sector, presented by designer industry organizations of architects and engineers, in the processes of planning, investment design and construction. The Bill also provides for the removal of existing inaccuracies and incompletes in the existing provisions accumulated as a result of the amendments and additions to the Law. In relation to the need to optimize geo-defense activity and introduce strict control of construction in landslide areas, amendments and additions are proposed to prohibit construction in landslide areas with a construction ban imposed, with the exception of geo-protective measures and activities, until all conditions of the order for the areas for which it is imposed are met and until its cancellation on a proposal from the relevant local self-government bodies. An addition to the Law is proposed, under which construction is prohibited in landslide areas where no sewerage has been built. In order to establish a follow-up mechanism for the implementation of the provisions given in the preliminary agreement issued by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, it is envisaged that these preliminary consents should be entered into the building permit. In the Bill was created an opportunity for representatives of the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria (KAB) and of the Union of Architects in Bulgaria (SAB) to participate in the competitions. The capacity of municipal administrations is provided for the mayors of municipalities to invite representatives of the Chamber of Engineers in investment design, the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria and the Union of Architects in Bulgaria when appointing municipal expert councils on a structure of the territory. The proposed amendments and additions introduce uniformity of the definitions used in the LU and Regulation (EU) No 305/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2011 laying down harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products and repealing Directive 89/106/EEC on the concept of The proposals are aimed at achieving compliance between the texts of LUT and the Law on Technical Requirements for Products. The provisions on the procedures for the approval of detailed planning plans in the scope of the competence of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works are revised. The Law provides amendments and additions to the provisions of the Law on the powers and functions of the National Building Control Directorate (DNCC) and municipal administrations, in a way that clearly ensures the performance of their control functions and even more clearly distinguishes the powers of the DNCC and the municipalities. Proposals have been made for amendments and additions to the provisions of the LU with a view to overcoming conflicting case-law or established case-law, which does not allow for the effective performance of the control functions of the DNC authorities. The Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft are proposed regulation to remove the emptiness in the regulations on eligible construction works, which can be carried out in the case of tolerated construction works, and the possibility of maintaining them. The Commission presented opinions from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, from the Chamber of Architects and from the Chamber of Engineers in Investment Design, which support the need for changes, making specific remarks and proposals under part of the provisions of the Bill. In the course of the discussion, the MPs who spoke supported in principle the need for the amendments proposed in the Bill. Furthermore, it has been noted that the proposed changes to the construction regime in landslide areas should be refined between the two readings of the Bill with a view to clarity in the practice of implementing them and the exercise of control over their compliance. Proposals were also made to preserve the powers of the employees in municipal administrations, depending on the acquired design capacity to develop projects for the construction of municipal property. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 7 votes............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u103	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. Who's gonna read the Legal Committee reports?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Area, No 554-01-29, submitted by Petar Vladislavov Slavov and a group of MPs On 11 February 2015, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No At its meeting held on 4 March 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Area, No 554-01-29, submitted by Petar Vladislavov Slavov and a group of MPs on 11 February 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Krasimir Katrandzhiev, Chairman of the Council of Notaries of the Notary Chamber of the Republic of Bulgaria. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Petar Vladislavov Slavov. The bill provides for a change in the legal status of the parking space to an independent, separate object subject to disposal and succession. The parking space is proposed to be described as an independent real estate property in cases where there is the status of construction within the meaning of the Law on the Construction of the Area (ZUT) and for it an investment project is required, and as a limited property law a special waitress in the hypothesis where an investment project is not needed for the construction of the parking space and does not constitute a construction under the Law on the Construction of the Area. The discussion was attended by the MPs Chetin Kazak, Danail Kirilov and Petar Slavov. In the course of the discussion Mr. Katrandzhiev expressed the need for legal regulation of the status of the parking space and its establishment as the subject of a transfer transaction due to the lack of legal framework, the idea of arranging the status of the parking spaces dates back more than 15 years, despite the great social and economic need for this. It also pointed out the need for the new legislation to cover the factual situations so far. Mr. Kazak put to discussion the question of the operation of the Law on the welded positions and how this right will be established on the already existing right to ideal parts of the parking space. Expressed the view that it should be precisely distinguished and defined by welded cases. Mr. Kirilov pointed out the need for a thorough debate on the connection between the envisaged new site and the sites in the floor property. It also highlighted the need to regulate the parking space with regard to welded positions and in the future, as well as to ensure that the right parking space is acquired by the owner of a stand-alone site on floor property. In the course of the discussion Mr. Katrandzhiev proposed for the parking space to provide for the status of belonging where there is floor property and where it is located on adjacent terrain by analogy with the status of basements and warehouses to the sites in floor property mode. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 15 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Please, the second report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on First Voting Legal Issues on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area, No 502-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 April 2015. At its meeting held on 7 May 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area, No 502-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28.04.2015. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works: the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, Mrs. Stoyanka Ilova, Chief Jurissult, Directorate of Legal Affairs, Mrs. Beatissa Shadupova, Head of Legal and Normal Service in the Directorate for National and Construction Control; from the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria: Arch. Mr. Emil Zhechev, Vice-President, Arch. Daniela Sivkova and arch. Borislav Borisov; Union of Architects in Bulgaria: arch. Mr. Georgi Bakalov, Chairman, Arch. Vanya Furnadzhieva, Secretary General; from the Chamber of Engineers in Investment Design: Mr. Stefan Kinarev, Chairman of the Management Board. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova. She stressed that the submitted bill is the result of the activities of working groups in which the branch organizations participated and the proposals contained therein were agreed. Mrs. Pavlova pointed out that the bill has several principal tasks, one of which is the introduction of emergency measures for strict control of construction in landslide areas, banning construction in landslide areas with a construction ban to clarify the overall sustainability of the terrain and in landslide areas where no sewerage was built. The minister noted that statistically, at the moment, in the landslide areas there are 3973 constructions executed without construction papers. Another objective of the Bill is to alleviate administrative procedures and administrative burdens, while aiming at increasing the role and responsibility of designer industry organizations of architects and engineers. It is proposed to regulate the possibility of carrying out emergency support and restoration activities in a light mode for the granting of a construction permit to be allowed in the event of partial documentation and subsequent completion of the building documents to be carried out after the urgent emergency and reconstruction works. In order to increase the role of the branch organizations, it is envisaged the participation of their representatives in the committees for the selection of the chief architect, as well as the obligation of the mayors of municipalities when appointing the municipal expert councils on the structure of the territory to invite representatives of the Chamber of Engineers in the investment design, the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria and the Union of Architects in Bulgaria. The proposed amendments and additions align the definitions used in the Law on the Construction of the Area and Regulation (EU) No 305/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2011 laying down harmonised conditions for the application of the market in construction products and repealing Directive 89/106/EEC on the notion of The bill refines the powers and functions of the Directorate for National Construction Control and of the Municipal Administration in a way that clearly ensures the performance of their control functions. People's representatives Dimitar Delchev and Petar Slavov took part in the discussion of the bill. In response to the question asked about the reason for dropping the possibility the administrative authority to cancel its own acts, Mrs. Stoyanka Ilova and Mrs. Beatrix Schildupova pointed out that the current version of art. 214a of the ECT restricts the application of the Administrative Procedure Code and the proposal aims to alleviate all administrative bodies issuing acts under the Law on the Construction of the Area by providing the possibility of applying the Code. To a question about the possibility of limiting the prohibition of building in a landslide area due to lack of sewerage, they replied that the introduction of the ban could be considered. Following a vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 11 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a procedural proposal because two experts were just missed for admission to the Chamber. They are Stoyanka Ilova and the director of the National and Construction Control Directorate. Please allow them in the Chamber during the discussion of the two bills.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u109	Voting regime for admission to the Chamber. 70 MPs voted: 69, none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. Invite the guests to the hall. Mr. Slavov, come with the reasons for your proposal for the Bill. By the order of introduction, you're first.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will present the Bill, although we worked on it together with colleague Danail Kirilov from GERB and experts. Colleagues, we're starting to fix some forgotten things today. It's another one of those things that's been going on for years, but it's not solved like problems. This problem is quite well known to most lawyers who have dealt with property law. A lot of seminars have been held on the subject and a solution has been sought. Of course, we have tried to embody these practices and conclusions, which some of the best professors and professors at the universities of property law have reached. The problem arises from the fact that within the meaning of ZUT, as it is regulated what is a garage and what deals can be made with it, about the parking spaces, even though they are all known to us and entered permanently into everyday life, there is no arrangement, no status as an object that automatically questions the parking space transactions. That's where the problem comes from. We have sought a legal definition of what is a parking space, how it is defined, which then allows it to be the subject of transactions. In other words, owners who have parking spaces, if they choose to be able to dispose of them, and others who do not want to acquire, can buy. The practice has found at present various attempts to solve this problem, which vary as a variety of improvisations, in some cases contrary to the Law on Device on the territory. So there have been a lot of lawsuits in this regard, and a lot of people, said to slang, were burned out by similar transactions, that is to say, they got lost thinking that they were buying a parking space, in fact it turns out that the Law didn't allow them to make such a deal and didn't become owners. We have also tried to regulate this as a transitional provision. In other words, such transactions, which so far do not contradict the effective judgments and the Law, to sanitize themselves and to obtain the status of tolerance. I will say two more things with regard to the comments that have been made at the Commission's meeting by my fellow Members. Colleagues have supported the bill from all parliamentary groups, for which I thank them. I also thank you for the constructive remarks made by colleagues from the opposition. One concern that has been expressed is that it can affect parking spaces that are located on a street, i.e. municipal property. In this sense, there could be some danger to public municipal property. I absolutely want to assure them that such a hypothesis does not exist in our view. Once that they have the status of public municipal property and cannot be subject to similar business transactions, a second time in the Bill we have quite clearly defined what a parking space is and how it is defined within the meaning of deriving from the status of an investment project for a building, that is to say it must have been applied in this investment project and so on. It is not at all about the parking spaces that the municipality has surrounded on different streets in a city. I mentioned that we've been looking for a solution. Finally, we expect, if this is supported and entered into force, except that it will solve the problem of many owners, in practice the state will have positive revenue in the budget, as many deals that are currently falling into the grey economy will be able to come out. They will be done in front of a notary, will be due local taxes, VAT and so on. Thus, the State has the opportunity to make additional revenue from the lightening of this process of instrumental parking transactions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u111	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Ladies and gentlemen, I open the debates on the two proposals for the Law on Structure of the Area, the first one at the time by Peter Slavov and a group of MPs, and the second one by the Council of Ministers, I stress, both with positive opinions from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Committee on Legal Affairs. I'm opening the debate. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u112	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We must all be aware that the Law of Structure in the territory in the 14 years in which it operates has been amended and supplemented seventy times. Naturally, the country is developing, the construction is dynamic, the public interests and the structure of the territory of the country, development and modernization, the change in quality of life requires change. I will speak first of all on the Law of the Council of Ministers. This Bill, as philosophy and motives, takes into account that the severe economic crisis requires urgent measures to alleviate administrative procedures. Here, above all, it is looking for relief of the procedures in the part of the work in landslide areas and recovery process, which is a lighter procedure. Parallel to this is made a clearer record of the behavior of the DNC in the field as powers, and of the municipalities. However, there are several things in the preparation and debate of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, as if they have tilted the burdens of professional and branch organizations. I will refer to the first motive of the Council of Ministers that, above all, the role of the non-governmental sector in the face of the branch organizations has increased. Yeah, there's the industry, it needs to be heard, but parallel to that, we need to see the realities of the terrain. It's okay with the competition for the selection of the chief architect to participate representatives of the chambers. Colleagues, however, if we see that we are inserting a text with mandatory recording of the Expert Councils to be attended by representatives of the Chamber of Engineers of Investment Design or of the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria and the Union of Architects, you know that there are Bulgarian municipalities where the architect goes for a day or two. I can give an example of Rudozem, Borino, Baths and elsewhere. This is where you have to be refined. If we insert mandatory text, when will the Expert Council be assembled? He should be looking for the district city people to go. He will touch in the pocket because they will say: "You have to pay us travel expenses and others. In my opinion, between first and second readings, a balance must be found, is it mandatory, is it advisable? If the chambers voluntarily want and have the energy to participate, let's make another debate about this, yes. That's one of the considerations. Secondly, I am aware of § 3, where we say that the functions between the DNCC and the municipalities for the removal of illegal constructions in the relevant categories are allocated to the DNCC and the municipalities. Here, however, we do not realize that municipalities do not have financial resources for this. We will again adopt a bill in which we all swear when we go to a meeting in municipalities that we will not vote on laws that are not financially secured. In my opinion, between first and second readings, we need to think about it, because for the implementation of the text and obligations so proposed, there is no significant financial resource to fulfil these obligations. Next, colleagues, indeed § 7 has its development and logic regarding geo-defense measures and activities to limit landslides. However, here I will raise the question, as is put in the opinion of one of the committees.......................................................................................................................................................... In my opinion, it is necessary, when we say that we need to take into account the positive effect of what we are going to write now, to be much more explicit and much clearer; to set deadlines, to have obligations and to change the measure to take account of progress. You see this squeezing, these problems. Yes, the minister made a list of landslides and endangered areas, prioritized, it is necessary to strengthen the ministry. In parallel, however, in order to take these measures, there are more than 3000 illegal sites in these areas, we have recorded that there is no sewerage, but not always in the context of Decree No 2, the minister has spoken and agreed his opinion in such landslide areas. There's been some severe accumulation problems. With this Bill, we will take one step, but there is a way to further strengthen restrictive measures such as policy.. to have accountability, when it will be reported, to whom progress will be taken into account, so that we can rest assured that when we make legal regulation, it will lead to progress, to the removal of important consequences for the country. In parallel, I will also look at another issue which must give the country a European look for the accessible environment. In parallel to this and from his experience as mayor, and you know it, the building fund is extremely large, for which mayors are obliged to provide an accessible environment for disadvantaged people for public buildings in perspective and for those who are being built. Yeah, but there's still no resource. Those are heavy, expensive facilities. They're handicapped platforms. If we only take the Bulgarian schools, how many platforms are needed, public buildings, libraries, where the Bulgarian population contacts and receives public services, we will be aware, I do not want to vote on a wishing text. Perhaps a text in which there is an order in which we can predict the necessary funds for the municipal level, because this issue remains open, and that means that we are voting on a declarative text. Next, I realize that the partners of the Ministry of Chambers want § 20 to be taken to the leading designer. However, if we are going to say that in the first part of the reasons we will have asked for relief of the administrative procedure, let us do and further develop it so that the leading designer will take responsibility when he is leading, to coordinate his parts with the other designers. It should coordinate and give the partner a period of time for the State, whether the municipality should provide the coordination regime for everything and not individual mayors, the individual representatives of the state institutions, when a certain construction is being carried out and should be agreed, to seek all designers separately. I think that with regard to the planned general planning, we all want the policy for municipalities and we swear that the structure of the state, the cities, the settlements, above all of the municipalities must have common planning. For many reasons and we are guilty that we do not provide in the Budget Act sufficient financial resources to actually enable municipalities with its share and the state to support them to have common spatial plans. Here's the question: if the current EP expires, and on 1 January 2016 there should be common planning in the whole country, in all municipalities, we are mistaken. Perhaps between first and second readings we will have to, despite our desire to push municipalities to be more active. This year is undoubtedly electoral, the activity will be as if by the end of August and it will be so that at the time when the political battle will be, there will not be quite such active activity of the municipalities themselves, so that we do not extend the term for the general planning of the municipalities. Perhaps now between first and second reading it will be necessary to do so. I wanted to share these things and many others, which led us to conclude that in the whole debate, when yes, it was necessary to introduce the Law on Structure on the territory in order to help processes primarily with landslide activity, to ease certain procedures, it was necessary for the Ministry of Regional Development to open the fan in the debate and to hear more. To put in this debate precisely those public interests so that they really benefit the public and public interest. That's what we wanted to share on the Law Project. Between first and second readings we will be very active. I hope it's the 71st change this year. If we continue at one pace of change, we may need to refine and establish a working group for an actual debate on a new Law on the structure of the territory. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. We rely on your activity between first and second readings. First line? I won't. Mr. Ahmedov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u114	Mr. President, honourable Members, with this opinion, I express my principled support with regard to the proposals for amendment and supplement of the Construction Act in the territory of Mr. Slavov. My observations on this are that the status of the so-called Parko The Law on Structure of the Area and the Law on Cadastral and Property Register do not explicitly regulate parking spaces as separate sites. The lack of legal framework allows for different interpretations, which raises uncertainty in civil turnover and, in particular, in the settlement of ownership of instrumental transactions with parking spaces, which are not currently regulated as separate items, which also leads to a dispute about the validity of transactions with them. Is the parking space a thing? I'm sure I will! Despite the lack of a legal definition of the concept, the same is characterized by the signs of materiality and peculiarity. Both signs are found at the parking space. It is a distinct and material object. Qualities that make him an object and therefore subject to a property relationship. Therefore, a right of ownership or a limited property right may also arise with regard to the parking space, such rights may be transferred or burdened. The proposed changes define the parking space as a private property. The consequences of this also have a legal definition of the concept and the outlined direction will have a positive effect. On the one hand, disputes will drop over how effective the management transactions are with the parking spaces and, on the other, undisputed benefits for the state budget in view of tax revenues. Last but not least, the security that any car owner who, for a certain amount, acquires a right to a parking space will be able to exercise this right without any problems and dispose freely of it and at a future time. A text has also been provided, which concerns already carried out transactions with parking spaces in various forms, which will definitely lead to greater clarity and security in future transactions. If the bill is adopted, then for areas with a cadastral map entered into force instead of the parties presenting a diagram of an underground garage, for example with ten parking spaces, they will present a scheme for the specific parking space as a separate site. Initially, in areas where a cadastral map has already entered into force, it may be necessary to film the parking space as an individual object. However, this inconvenience is only once and negligible to the benefits that a precise and modern legal framework would bring. I also support the opinion of the Bar Association that property rights are subject to legal regulation by the Property Act and the settlement of matters of a property-law nature should be done by this Law and not by the Construction Act in the territory which, in turn, regulates the structure of the territory, investment planning and construction and restrictions on the ownership of the spatial objectives. In other words, it should only address matters relating to the administrative nature of parking and gartering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u115	Thank you, Mr. Ahmedov. First line? I won't. Mr. Nenkov expressed his desire. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, indeed, as the non-negotiables have said, the Law on Construction of the territory may be one of the most frequently changing ones. Perhaps for the simple reason that it does cover a very large part of the social-economic relations between people, between institutions and every single person has faced the norms of this Law many times. I will refer to the bill which has been tabled by the Council of Ministers, namely the one which concerns how, albeit urgently, to resolve the problem of landslides that have recently harassed the population, the collapses, what powers the DNCC will have from now on, better control over the quality of the products used in construction, and to clear some things relating to the case law, because you know that some of the acts of the DNC are being appealed at first instance, at second instance there is no possibility of appeal and the actual act of the DNCC is dropping out too early. It is indeed a fact that the Law on Construction in the Area may need a much more serious change in general, and that is what we have convinced all our colleagues not only in the Commission but also in the Ministry of Regional Development. As far as we know, such serious changes will be made within the next few months. But the fact is, and that the landslides and the collapses especially do concern the population and the majority of the changes that are enshrined in the bill concern precisely how to urgently resolve these issues. I'm not saying they're 100 percent perfect, but in any case, we need them. One of which I think is very important, precisely when the Bill provides for and rather clears that when we have a landslide, we can do strengthening activities, measures of geodefense, for which their building documents can actually be added afterwards, so that really construction works can be done instantly, and not wait for the cumbersome procedure of all construction permits. The other thing that I think is very important and perhaps needs to be precise between first and second votes is precisely when and where it is allowed to be built. The really restrictive attitude of the Bill towards not building constructions in landslide areas where there is such a ban, I believe that, although restrictively necessary, because, according to recent data, there are perhaps nearly 4,000, so to speak, illegal objects in the territory of these landslides. In any case, this may not have an effect on these, although sometimes natural phenomena, but certainly affect them. The other which I think is very important and useful, namely, where there is an opportunity to build in such landslides, where there is an explicit prior permission, to really have sewerage. Yes, it is a fact that you have to specify what kind of sewerage there may be to allow such construction, but in any case this must be a mandatory measure for each construction of these territories. The second, which I think is very important, namely the attitude of the DNC to this whole process. It was just said, perhaps not very correct, that the DNC is given so much more power. No, it does not give so much power, it is rather refined, as the DNCC can now impose fines and sanctions for all constructions of the first to sixth category, but since the practice is a little contradictory, some of the acts, especially for the fourth "Fifth" category, fall into court, namely here it is much more precisely defined when and what sanctions can be imposed by the DNC, as I just said, are introduced the two-instantial case-law so that the acts that have fallen to the first instance in the DNCC can also be pitied at second instance. In my opinion, a very important and important point is precisely the choice of the main architects. You know, we end up having a serious problem with that. We have repeatedly witnessed chief architects who are somewhat abusive of their powers. Undoubtedly, the possibility, which envisions the bill, namely industry chambers, to participate in both the expert councils and the selection of chief architects, will certainly open the procedure and make it more transparent. Here's a line to the pre-speakers that we kind of oblige. Nowhere does the bill say that chambers and industry organizations are obliged to send such people. Rather, an opportunity is given, of course, as it will be at their expense, as long as, of course, they wish. Finally, but last but not least, I believe that the most serious problem, which has just hinted about it, is precisely the lack of common planning on the territory of the country. And whether the biggest debate is perhaps here, we should pay attention to whether we should extend the deadline until 1 January 2016, namely for the entry into force of common planning plans throughout the territory. Because as long as we don't have spatial plans in these territories, we will always face this problem. Now, as it is written, and I am very skeptical about whether we should extend the deadline between the first and the second vote or at the end of the year, it doesn't matter, because in the end this period has been extended several times and to this point... Yeah, you might say that municipalities don't have enough resources, they don't have enough administrative capacity, the team. I would not like to agree with this because there may be such a fraction of truth, but in the end there are municipalities and in the Commission I said it, which manage projects for millions under European programmes and ultimately there is no justification to be the lack of sufficient financial resources or that there is not enough administrative capacity to work out these plans. As long as we have no plans, everything will undoubtedly be an Adhok and until then we will be making such a little urgent legislative measures. I believe that the bill will, of course, undergo changes between first and second votes, but given the urgency that required its introduction, I believe that it meets the requirements of public expectations, perhaps more restrictive, but ultimately imperative, namely to introduce a little more order, a little more ease of procedure and really not to do every time there is such a natural disaster, to wonder why, in what way and who is guilty of this thing, and indeed from the very beginning to distinguish the functions of both the DNC and the municipalities and to have a clear ban on where and where it cannot be built. I will therefore support the bill of first voting and, of course, between first and second votes, we will make the necessary adjustments so as to clear the texts. As for the bill submitted by Mr. Petar Slavov and a group of MPs, I believe that it should also be supported and I will support it, as it does regulate an activity that has accumulated for many years as a problem in legal peace. It is purely a legal dispute and I believe that really the parking spaces should enter into circulation in the civil turnover and will also support this bill. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u117	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Here's your first line, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Nenkov, Members of the National Assembly! I'm against this tribune of improvisation. You said we didn't oblige them anywhere, and if we oblige them, they will go with the funds of the chambers and thus be voluntary in the expert councils. Paragraph 1 which makes a change in art. 5, t. 2.................................................................................. 4 Finally, a comma is placed and added: supposed to invite representatives of the Chamber of Engineers, the investment project and so on. And, secondly, I am a supporter of general planning to become, colleagues. And I know that when they are gone, especially for third-level cities, and for everyone, this could hinder European funds. However, due coordination, the overall operation of a common design plan, perhaps we should support this process, at least strain and make a change in the Transitional and Final Provisions or immediately in the Law on Cultural Heritage, in the Law on Environmental Protection, in the Law on Biological Diversity, the time limits for coordination to be shorter. I don't know if you've ever been to agree on a common plan or a document under the Cultural Heritage Act. You're going in a merry-go-round, which if you get out in two years, it's fine. Those are tough procedures. Then perhaps within the time limits now between first and second reading deadlines, on which we can be more firm, so that we can actually have... We're not against making plans. I expressed a concern that if we extend by a year or think about whether to extend, or to ease, or to make restrictive procedures, it would be more important. This is my line of respect for matter and for lack of improvisation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Second line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mrs. Yankova! Since you don't like improvisation, I'll still allow myself to read the way the law was introduced. As you have read yourself, this is about: 4 a comma is placed and added by the mandatory invitation....I emphasize the words.... representatives of the Chamber of Engineers in the investment design, the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria and the Union of Architects in Bulgaria.......................................................................................... Therefore, they are invited. Rather, the opportunity is given if they, of course, wish, because it is explained that it will be at their expense, if they are willing, they can come and participate in these expert advices or in the selection of the committee that elects the chief architect. So here I think it's said very accurately. It is not necessarily said that there should be or should not be given any precise percentage which they should take on by this committee. As far as planning is concerned. I'm not saying the procedure is easy, and I'm sure it's difficult, and each one of us knows how long it takes. All I said was that we have been putting off several times and if some municipalities do not have this capacity or this resource, there is a large part of the municipalities that deliberately do not do so and there is no way to close our eyes. I say nothing more than that if we postpone each time more and more these deadlines, I am not sure what will be the incentive of these municipalities to do even this so-called clumsy procedure, especially in municipalities where there are serious economic and financial interests. It is in these municipalities that paradoxically there is the slightest development in these procedures. I think that if we extend the deadline again, we can come to this hypothesis that we will be putting it off many times in the coming years and we will get nowhere with this particular desire to make these planning plans come into force. And really now, as of 1 January 2016, what is also envisaged in the current law is precisely that those municipalities that do not have planning or have not started the procedure will be able to make partial changes to the plans, but only when it comes to national security sites of national importance and municipal or regional importance. It's just that those who are related to a private investment can only be made such changes in the structure plan for those who have an example class of............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I don't think it should be that easy, maybe we should discuss it, of course, but we shouldn't be so easy to extend the deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u121	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Any other speeches? I won't. We're closing the debate. The Quaestors, please invite the MPs for a vote. First, we are voting on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area, No 554-01-29, tabled by Petar Vladislavov and a group of MPs on 11 February 2015. I repeat, with a proposal from the leading Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Legal Commission, to support a positive opinion. Voting mode. They voted 99 MPs: 88, none, abstention 11. The bill was passed in the first vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Construction in the Area, No 502-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 April 2015, also with a proposal from the two committees to be supported. Voted 103 MPs: 86 against 1, abstention 16. The project was adopted in the first vote. With this, the two draft legislations for a structure in the territory were adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u122	Dear colleagues, we are going to the next point in our weekly program: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CONVERSATION OF RESEARCH. With the report of the Committee on Education and Science, Mrs. Anastasova will introduce us. You have the floor, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman, before I introduce you to the report, I would like an admission procedure in the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Education and Science Prof. Nikolai Denkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u124	Please vote on admission to the House of the Deputy Minister of Education Prof. Denkov. Vote 89 MPs: 88, against none, abstention 1. Please, the Quaestors, invite the Deputy Minister. Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the promotion of research, No 554-01-12, submitted By Milen Vassilev Mihov and a group of MPs On 23 January 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) At its regular meeting on 11 March 2015, the Committee on Education and Science discussed at the first vote the Draft for amendment and supplement to the Research Promotion Act, No 554-01-12, submitted by Milen Vassilev Mihov and a group of MPs on 23 January 2015. The meeting was attended by: Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev, Deputy Ministers Prof. Todor Tanev. Kostadin Kostadinov and Prof. Kostadinov Nikolai Denkov and Assoc. Ljiljana Valcheva from the trade union. Written opinions came from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, from the Union of Scientists in Bulgaria and from the Union of Higher Education and Science. The Ministry of Education and Science considers the need for regulatory changes as a result of the peer review and evaluation of the research system in the Republic of Bulgaria by the European Commission. On behalf of importers, the bill was presented by Milen Mihov. It removes the notion of 'promoting', which has a desirable character and does not correspond to the modern understanding of providing research as the primary obligation of the state relating to its competitiveness in a European and global context. According to the best European practices, there is a commitment of funding to government policy in the long term, which has been absent until now. The organizational status of the specialized state tool for carrying out research is changing because the practical activity of the fund showed deep vices based mostly on its inadequate structure laid down in the Law. The discussion on the bill included MPs Borislav Velikov, Mariana Boyadjieva, Stoyan Mirchev, Milena Damyanova, Boyka Marinska, Krasimir Bogdanov and Stanislav Stanilov. The Members of the National Assembly supported the change of the model of the "promoting" with a guarantee and a clearer definition of the country's commitment to research in order to achieve the national objective of achieving the public funding for research to reach by 2020 a percentage and a half of the gross domestic product. As a positive side of the bill, the change in the structure of the management bodies of the Fund was pointed out in order to address the weaknesses manifested in the last three years. The possibility of attracting well-established scientists who possess the scientific degree of Doctor of Science is extended, but are not habilitated. The Members of the National Assembly requested further clarification of the principles on which the State will ensure the development of research according to its economic priorities. Only the research mechanism financed through the Fund is regulated legally, but the obligation of the State to provide institutional funding remains not regulated. A new model should be introduced into the Fund itself, which allocates funds to fixed rates for humanitarian knowledge, for natural sciences and for innovation. There should be a monitoring mechanism for the way the projects are reviewed. The distribution of reviewers, the award of reviews, the deadlines for writing reviews and their assessment. Explanations were requested from the Ministry of Education on the opportunities of the Operational Program "Science and Education for Smart Growth" to assist the activities of the Fund "Science Research" as well as are the proposed changes in the Law of the General Vision and Philosophy of the Ministry for Change. The IDP's response was that the Operational Programme and the Fund are two complementary but independent instruments, among which there can be no cross-financing. The proposed amendments to the Law do not contradict the overall concept of the ministry, which considers the discussion in the National Assembly as opening a wide public debate on the problems of research in the Republic of Bulgaria. The importers also made a commitment to reflect the comments made between the first and second votes on the bill. After the discussion was completed and the results vote was held for the 15 votes, the Committee on Education and Science proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement to the Research Promotion Act, No 554-01-12, submitted by Milen Vassilev Mihov and a group of MPs on 23 January 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. The bill is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. There is no report from this Commission. On behalf of the importers, please come in. Mr. Bogdanov will present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The regulatory base governing the conduct of research in Bulgaria is extremely outdated and ineffective. The Law on the Promotion of Research was adopted in the distant 2003 and is repeatedly cosmetically amended, but both the Law itself and the regulations developed on its principles do not meet the requirements and needs of modern society. Especially after Bulgaria's accession to the European Union, which means the formal adoption of the fundamental European values and principles such as the Lisbon Treaty, the Horizon 2020 Programme and the concept of a Knowledge-built Community, the weaknesses of the Research Act have shown in full measure. The notion of promotion in the very name of the Law, which corresponds to assistance, assistance, encouragement, support, is inadequate in terms of modern understanding of the provision of research as the primary obligation of the State relating to its competitiveness in a European and global context. The Law regulates the organization of the only methodical and financial instrument of the state for organizing and carrying out research activities, namely the Research Fund. The practical activities of the Fund since its creation have shown deep vices based mostly on the inadequate organization laid down in this Law. The Executive Board and the Governor shall be appointed by the Minister of Education and Science, which shall create a lack of internal coordination and ineffective organisation. The normal administrative structure of such funds is the existence of a Management Board to be appointed by the Minister of Education and Science and the Executive Director, which is appointed after a competition by the Chairman of the Governing Council, so our proposals are in the direction of a better organisation and better structuring of the Fund. In the current Law, there is no financial link to government policy in the long term, which is contrary to European norms. Both the Lisbon Strategy and the Horizon 2020 Strategy set financial objectives for research and development, expressed in digital form, to 3% of gross domestic product. The national document justifying the National Objective 2 (National Objective) is the National Reform Programme (National Reform Programme), according to which research expenditure should increase to a percentage and a half of gross domestic product by 2020. At the same time, priority 81 sets the same objectives until the deadline for which it is set. The conduct of research should be targeted and financially linked to those strategic documents pre-set. I believe that the proposed changes will lead to significant improvements in the organisation and conduct of research and to a number of positive social and economic effects. Dear Members of Parliament, I call on you to support at first reading the amendments to the Research Act and I propose that the time be extended to its vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u128	I understand that you are making a procedural proposal to extend today's plenary session until the debate is concluded and the bill is voted on. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I'm voting on this procedural proposal. Vote 75 MPs: 64, against 3, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. I'm opening the debate. I ask Members of the National Assembly who wish to take part in the bill to make an application for this. Mr. Veliv is the first to take part in the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u129	Thank you, Madam President. I believe that the claims of the importers, which are reflected in the motives and were read by colleague Bogdanov, are quite ambitious. They relate to a relatively radical renovation of the legislative base in this sense.. bringing it into line with European legislative values; increasing the role of the state, especially with regard to the financing of science; solving all the management problems of the Research Fund.. we know that there are, or at least there were, such problems, things that can generally be praised. If a deeper reading of the Bill is made, it will be seen that the general texts relating to the organization of research...................................................................................... Article 1 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall be replaced by the following: 2, para. Article 1 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall be replaced by the following: Article 4; 6, para. Article 2 (1) (a) 10 repeat almost literally the text of the now existing Law. There is only a drop of the word "promoting" or replacing it with "production." Apart from the displacement of the points on the individual texts and the repetition of already known by the Regulations of the Fund things. 10, practically nothing changes in this part. Moreover, it is very controversial for me to drop the word "encouraging" even in the name of the Law, which actually seems to free the state from a more substantial commitment to science. Taking a look at what in § 5 also seems to be essential in terms of financing, providing research funds, it is not clear in how all these less or more wishful texts relating to the state providing an increase in the volume of research funds, ensuring the financing and implementation of national scientific programmes and projects................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Since there is no report from the Committee on Budget and Finance to the Forty-third Parliament, whether it is signifiable or not, I cannot interpret and will not do so, but I think it was good to have such an opinion, because otherwise, to a large extent, these norms are actually becoming unfulfilled. It is not the most important thing in encouraging the regular, mandatory funding of research, which is undoubtedly important. Looking at the following paragraphs, you can see that figures like the Board of Directors are being introduced as the CEO. Whether they are taken by the Commercial Law, which could undoubtedly happen or not, but we get the impression that here, to a large extent, what is changing, as if it is related to solving issues related to setting up certain persons, if possible unhabilitated, which will be in the Board of Directors so far, and now it is proposed to replace it with the Board of Directors. Where it will be decided without habilitated persons, are they accepted or rejected the decisions of permanent experts? The Fund's scientific strategy is determined. All of this seems to be most connected to § 11, where, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Governing Council is the new concept instead of the Executive Board and is holding a competition and the Chairman of the Governing Council is entering into a contract with the Executive Director, the current Governor, that is to say, replacing it. These and some other considerations have also been expressed in the Commission. I have expressed my opinion that it is better for now not to adopt the Bill, to wait for the prepared much more complete and sustained project of the Ministry of Education and Science and then to have a bill for amendment and supplement to the Act for the promotion of research to be much more sustained. Madam President, if you would, I would also suggest that we hear the opinion at some point of the Ministry's representative, Deputy Minister. Denkov, on these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u130	Any lines to Mr. Veliv? I won't. To speak, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u131	I fully join the critical remarks that my colleague Borislav Veliev said. Indeed, this bill has weaknesses, although I will vote for the Law, because I believe that any action that improves the attitude towards research work should be voted on, first, even though we, colleague Velikov, have not seen what the Ministry will submit and what the new law will be. Secondly, I would like to remind you again in this regard that I have read the Council of Ministers' budget forecast for the next three years. There is no increase in funding for research. There's nothing there. On the contrary, they remain at the same level, not even offset inflation. This means that even if we accept and not adopt this Law, in that part of it to increase the funds for research, since the Council of Ministers has no intention of increasing these funds, it becomes pointless. I'll remind you of something else. From the changes so far, the Science Research Fund, which did not fully cover the funds invested in science, was about 120 million. lv. in the last or last year in the management of the Triple Coalition. That money was so scattered back then, there wasn't much use for it. I remember the criticisms they were, what discussions. A math professor made such a thick book. [[shows]] with documents that are still with me, with their criticism of the decisions of this Board and its experts, and so on. There is now a minimum amount of money in the Science Research Fund, but it is currently working extremely clumsyly. I don't see how you can control the appointment of experts in it? As my colleague Veliv said, doctors are put there without habilitating faces. This means that these people will have no experience in research, that is, they will not be able to appreciate what is going on there and what is happening. I welcome, in general, the colleagues from the Patriotic Front who have tried at least to do something. I will also tell you, fellow Members, that ten years the mantra is the same. The salaries of the scientists involved in research work are at an incredibly low level. The associate at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences received a base salary of 560 BGN, the professor received 910 BGN. plus-minus 20-30 lv. in the various institutes, which is shameful and does not allow to recruit footage. All these students in the elite schools who receive awards in biology, in physics, in chemistry, in mathematics and so on at international competitions, none of them remains to study in Bulgaria and does not return to work in Bulgaria. That is, the Bulgarian science in this payment is already beginning to lose. She's working on overheating and she's starting to lose the ability to get footage at all. There are already cases in the research institutes when the declared doctoral degrees and contests appear completely unprepared people and the seats remain empty if the relevant jury does not compromise. How can I tell you, I call for such a law to be passed one day. And I can make such adjustments, but I do not see how they will be accepted because I have made them, where the basic salaries of people, scientists who work research, must be comparable, generally, to salaries in the state budget at one level above average. Otherwise, 100 million would have a Science Research Fund, with no personnel to master these millions and give a scientific product that is at European level, there is no point in doing anything at all. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences from all institutions is the only institution in Bulgaria that deals with research work, requested an international audit. This was at the beginning of GERB's first term. This audit was carried out by the Association of European Academies of Sciences and he gave an assessment above the average level of four Institutes of the Academy received an assessment of the AAA, which means world level and world level. No one paid attention to all this, no one tried to devote funds. So I don't think cosmetics is gonna work. I'm afraid my voice will remain a voice in the wilderness. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u132	Any lines to Mr. Stanilov? I won't. Mrs. Bachvarova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u133	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! We will support the proposed Bill, at least for the reason that it raises questions about the financing of science and reaching the goal that 1.5% of gross domestic product should be set aside for the development of science. We are also in favour of changing the concept of 'promoting' with'security'. The problem that we are putting here and we want to continue in the next debates is what do we mean by state insurance? Because the wishful thinking of the term'sure' does not mean that the budget funds will be sufficient to provide quality research. A new management structure model of the Fund is available, because the Bill primarily meets the requirements for better management of funds in the Fund. The proposed changes will hardly lead to a significantly better management of funds, which are already a little 11 million in 2015. But I would like to turn around and ask the representatives of the Ministry, when they know that there is such a bill with such a structure of management of the Fund, why in April have we already appointed Executive Council, Chairman and Management Board? Are we going to start selection again, are we going to start again when we adopt this Draft Procedure by choice, which means that the Research Fund in 2015 will not work, simply because there will be no legitimate structure to make decisions. In conclusion, I will really support the Bill and hope that the debates on science and funding not only through the Research Fund will continue in Parliament, because it is important in terms of the priorities that we have in the development of the state and the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Are there any lines to her statement? I won't. Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to take part in the deliberations? Mr. Mestan has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to share honestly that I am a little lost in the purpose of the proposed bill. I do not see what is substantially amended in the current Research Promotion Act, apart from a persistent attempt to replace the word of encouragement with the word of conduct. Only this problem isn't as harmless as it seems at first glance. I pay attention, it seems to me that no one paid attention to this moment with the replacement of the word "encouraging" and "exercise." I took the floor to explain the difference between the two words. This isn't just about semantics, it's about naming the subject of responsibility. I do not know whether you are consciously doing it or unconsciously, but this is the main reason why we will not support the proposed bill. The conduct of scientific research itself is an autonomous territory of the teachings, its creative process. The meaning of this Law, which acts, the meaning of the word "promoting," prof. It is Velikov to name the entity, the state, as a body that promotes the creative activity of the scientist who conducts the scientific research. In this sense, it is absolutely unacceptable that the word is replaced by the word 'promoting'. The scientist knows how to conduct scientific research! We don't have to tell him by law we, as a government body. We, as a state body, must express through this law the state's concern how the state will assist the exercises in carrying out the scientific research. I see that you have a majority, at least for conjunctural reasons, you will support this thing called a draft amendment and supplement to the Research Promotion Act. I was even surprised, given the consistent replacement of the word "promoting" with the word "promotion" why have you not dared to change the name of the bill itself, it is called "the Research Act"? Because otherwise, that title hangs! I would very much like to hear a reply to that. I repeat, you are taking a heavy risk and by replacing two words, which act is not quite harmless, but is essentially a replacement of the subject of responsibility, instead of improving the Law you will make it worse fatally. I therefore call on this bill to be rejected. In addition, in relation to what was said by Prof. Stanilov, the problem is not only the salaries of Bulgarian scientists. He is, of course, a huge problem because the social status of the exercises is so bad that I continue to wonder that there are scientists in Bulgaria that there are Bulgarian citizens looking for realization in this field. It seems the only incentive, the only promotion of scientific activity in Bulgaria, and this is the responsibility of all governments, of all majorities in the last 25 years, remains the internal stimulus, the need for a citizen to engage in scientific, creative activity. Because in view of the salaries, this seems absolutely illogical, just pointless. But I would like to raise another question related to the too often heard negative assessments of the work of both the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the poor Bulgarian scientists that these were almost not reformed, retrograde systems. I would like to state quite responsibly from this tribune that I have no memory that the state clearly defined one of its priorities, asked the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to provide a scientifically defined state priority and that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences failed to do this task. It's more like we have something else. The state, again, has not addressed the current cabinet and the current ruling majority, consistently over the past 25 years, and has failed to define its priorities in the field of research related to the country's development priorities, has not asked clearly, has not set specific objectives and tasks before the Bulgarian Academy of Science and in the implementation of these objectives and tasks to judge the effectiveness of this body. Negative assessments aim to replace responsibility, that is, we accuse BAS of unreformability because of the state's own infantility that it cannot define its priority objectives in the field of research. Thank you for your attention. I call not to support the Bill, because nothing improves, but rather worsens the act in force....................................................................................... Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u136	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. - What's the line? There are no lines. Speaking, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u137	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! When a system does not work well, this has been confirmed not only by the facts but also by all who have already spoken about our proposals, then this system is usually reformed. And when a system does not work well, this has been confirmed not only by the facts but also by all who have already spoken about our proposals, then this system is usually reformed. What was my surprise from all the talkers? Each one of them said that this system is not managed well, it does not work well, it does not provide enough funds in the right way for the best projects. After all, we should not change any changes. Why? Nobody said anything. It wasn't clear. With regard to the financial resources provided for in the Law. Dear Mr. Velikov, I have already quoted a number of European and national documents, including the programme of the government under which the parties supporting the government of Boyko Borisov have signed. There are clearly described the ways and mechanisms for achieving the financial objectives. Naturally, no one is talking about increasing funds for the Fund for Scientific Studies in the current budget. Here are budget forecasts, solutions for the coming years. But the fact that the staked percentage and a half to be reached by 2020 is a good request or a good signal to the scientific community, to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, that the state is concerned with research and thoughts about Bulgarian science as a whole. Mr. Mestan repeated the word again and again. Without wanting to get into any unnecessary arguments with him, he may or may not have listened well enough to the Commission's report on education and science or was absent from that meeting. I can quote, Mr. Mestan, from the report of the Education Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u138	Don't mess with me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u139	Please don't get into an argument. You have the floor, not the line. I said, is there anyone who can replicate Mr. Mestan's opinion?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u140	I'm getting to the point. Excuse me, Madam President. The Members of the National Assembly supported the change of the model of promotion with insurance. We're not talking about holding anywhere. That word was mentioned three times. It is absent from the Commission's report at all. And I do not see any justification in the claims that, you see, this word of encouragement is the most important thing in the Law, and we must make all our proposals and opinions, which we express here from the stands of the National Assembly, just for one single word. On the contrary, the good ideas for changing the management structure of the Fund should be mentioned here. It's really paradoxical the situation we're in right now. It is quite normal to have a Management Board, to have an executive director to take over the executive functions in this unit to be controlled by the Governing Council. I believe that every organization functions normally that way. No one has mentioned our proposal to be provided through the Fund of Research (Science Research) to co-finance projects under European programmes. Imagine the situation that the European Union provides 1 million. lv. on some project and a co-financing of 50 or 100 thousand must be provided. lv. Where will some scientific organization in Bulgaria be able to remove 50 or 100 thousand from its budget? lv. and co-finance one such project. Then we come to the point that we are losing extremely many opportunities for good development and for helping Bulgarian scientists. Last but not least, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that all the proposals that have been made here, of course, the motivated ones I am not talking about in order to seek some conflict in plenary, can be made between first and second readings. And the Committees will pass the Bill, it will be reviewed, all amendments will be made. We are open to adopting any reasonable proposal, which is in the sense of improving the situation with the funding of Bulgarian science, the Research Fund and the opportunity to have real and effective results of the activities of the Bulgarian Research Centre and of all people involved in science in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u141	Are there any lines? First line, Mr. Borislav Veliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u142	Thank you, Madam President. I think from what my colleague Bogdanov said that the work of my colleague Bogdanov and Assoc. Mihov in the Commission can undoubtedly be praised. They are indeed valuable members of the Committee on Education and Science. But in this particular case, with this bill, there are things that are not well prepared enough. True, there are wishing texts, but the very fact that there is no report from the Committee on Budget and Finance... We're stepping on some facts. There's no report like that. Why? Probably because there was no connection with the actual guarantee of funding, the provision of research funds, the promotion of these researches! People's representative Lutvi Mestan addressed the issue semantically. But if you remove from the title the Research Promotion Act, being the Research Act, in itself, means that in practice you underestimate the role precisely of this encouragement! In this sense, we cannot agree with these. I have to tell you, honourable Members, who, for natural reasons, are not members of the Committee on Education and Science, that at the meeting at which the bill was examined, the opinion of the Ministry of Education and Science, which was given to the Members in writing, was not supporting this Law. It would therefore be good not to accept it for now, to wait for the Bill on which the issue and Prof. Denkov could speak if, Madam President, you give him the floor, and then, rather between first and second readings, the valuable things that are from colleagues from the Patriotic Front, are put in as proposals between first and second readings, not vice versa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u143	Second line, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Bogdanov, as far as you have turned to a relatively correct language, not very inherent to your parliamentary group, to me, and my line will be perfectly correct. We look at your project at first reading, just as you imported it and there we read the word. The Commission's amendments are for second reading. At first reading we are looking at your project. The fact that you have applied to the Commission's opinion actually gives a hidden agreement with my arguments against the replacement of the word 'encouraging' with the word 'encouraging', but I assure you that this is the slightest problem. The goal by 2020 to achieve 1,5% of gross domestic product sounds very encouraging, but keep in mind that 1.5% is only 50 percent of the strategic goal set by the European Union in the 2020 Strategy there is 3! Can you imagine: a Bulgaria that pursues competitiveness within the European Union sets its own goals, only 50% of the objectives set out in the European Union's strategic document?! And notice, you have no consent within the coalition even for that 1.5%! You have no opinion from the Budget and Finance Committee, you have no support from the minister! The fellow Member is right that such a type of constitutional law is good to be introduced by the Council of Ministers precisely for this reason..... because otherwise there is a feeling that we are dealing with an amendment of the Law, from which nothing will follow, just to serve the legislative vanity of one or another coalition partner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-28.u145	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Bogdanov? You will not use the word for the back. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Promotion of Research. Vote 88 MPs: 71, against 12, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Parliamentary control announcements on 29 May 2015, starting time "9:00": First will answer the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova to two questions from the MPs Maya Manolova, and Desislav Chukolov. The Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov will answer two questions from the MPs Maya Manolova, and Willi Lilkov and one question from the MPs Chavdar Georgiev and Philip Popov. The Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov will answer three questions from the MPs Georgi Andonov and Krasen Krastev, General, Miglena Alexandrova, and Kristian Vigenin. Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva will answer two questions from the MPs Stanislav Stanilov, and Dimitar Delchev. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer a question from the MP Lyubomir Vladimirov. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer six questions from the MPs Volen Siderov, Petar Slavov, two questions, Manol Genov, Vladimir Toshev, and Milen Mihov. The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev will answer five questions from the MPs Borislav Iglev, Dora Yankova, Cornelia Marinova, two questions, and Kalina Balabanova. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer 22 questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev The Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov will answer three questions from the MPs Boris Yachev, Stanislav Stanilov, and Desislava Kostadinova. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer two questions from the MPs Slavi Binev, and Georgi Kadiev. Economy Minister Bozidar Lukarski will answer three questions from the MPs Iskren Veselinov, Willi Lilkov, and Maya Manolova. The Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova will answer seven questions from the MPs Slavi Binev, Philip Popov, Krasimir Yankov, Georgi Bozhinov, Kalina Balabanov and Nikolay Alexandrov, Georgi Kadiev, and Martin Dimitrov and one question from the MPs Krasimir Karakachanov and Iskren Veselinov. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer four questions from the MPs Stefan Kenov "two questions, Emil Dimitrov, and Cornelia Ninova. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to two questions from the MPs Georgi Kovachev, Ahmed Ahmedov, and two questions with written answer from the MPs Krasimir Bogdanov, and Kiril Dobrev; - the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Yavor Notev; - Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski of a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Borislav Iglev. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 4 and art. 97, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, due to the absence of MPs for respectable reasons, the answer to a question from MP Mihail Mikov to the Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva is postponed. Due to a prior commitment to the parliamentary control meeting, Minister of Health Petar Moskov will not participate. Due to a prior commitment with international participation in the parliamentary control meeting, Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev, Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will not participate. Tomorrow is a regular sitting. Start time "9.00, full parliamentary control. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
