ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. According to our adopted yesterday's Work Programme for this plenary week, as point one for Thursday, we have adopted: SELECTION OF A HIGH INSPECTOR IN THE INSPECTOR TO THE HIGH JUDGE COUNCIL. The procedure of the election is by rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 11 December 2014. I recall the rules: ? RESPONSIBILITY? adopting procedural rules for the election of the Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council The National Assembly on the basis of art. 132a, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt the following procedural rules for the election of the Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council: 1. Applicants shall be submitted by an importer of the proposal on their order, as defined in a list prepared in alphabetical order of the applicant's personal names within 2 minutes. 2. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall submit a report to the hearing held. 3. Following the presentation of the report, the National Assembly shall hold the debates on the submitted nominations under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. During the debates, the Members of the National Assembly may raise questions to the candidates. 4. At the end of the deliberations, candidates for Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council may make statements and answer questions asked to them within 10 minutes for each candidate individually. 5. The voting shall be carried out on the order defined in the list of candidates and shall be based on an argument of the following. 1 is alphabetical. 6. The candidate has been elected, who has received the most votes, subject to a majority requirement for the production of this choice, as defined in art. 132a, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. I recall this is a qualified majority of 2/3 of the total number of MPs, or 160 votes are needed. Under these rules, we should now begin by presenting the candidates on behalf of their importers. I see that consultations are still taking place in this Chamber and I expect one of the importers to make a proposal and a possible admission procedure in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I request a procedure for admission of the two candidates Ms. Vera Stanislavova Chochkova and Mrs. Teodora Angelova Tochkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u3	We vote. Vote 159 MPs: 158, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, please invite the candidates. Are you Mr. Kirilov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u4	Yes, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to remind you that [[crowd cheering]] representatives of all political forces...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u5	Colleagues, the noise in the hall is extremely high. I don't hear Mr. Kirilov, I don't know about you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u6	I'm trying to speak loudly, Madam President. Representatives of all political forces made a proposal for the two nominations. I will allow myself, on behalf of all importers, to present very briefly the basic life data for applicants. Ms. Vera Chochkova has graduated from the Faculty of Law at Sofia University and meets the requirements of art. 42 of the Law on the Judiciary. She was a candidate from 1996 to 1997, a junior judge at the Sofia City Court from 1997 to 1998, a district judge at the Sofia District Court from 1998 to 2004; a judge at the Sofia City Court from 2004 until now. As of January 20, 2015, Mrs. Chochkova had legal experience as a judge for 18 years, 3 months and 14 days. It was tested for the period 2008 - 2010 with a comprehensive score of 91 points. She has graduated training courses in European law, human rights protection, the Training Programme for trainers at the National Institute of Justice. There's a final course in intellectual property protection. The second candidate in the list Mrs. Teodora Tochkova has graduated from the Law Faculty of Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski " and meets the requirements of art. 42 of the Law on the Judiciary. She was an intern from 1993 to 1994; a junior judge at Haskovo County Court, from 1994 to 1995; between 1995 and 2001, she was a judge at Haskovo District Court and from 2001 to 2007 she was a judge at Haskovo District Court. Since 2007 he has been the administrative head and second term Chairman of the Administrative Court of Haskovo. As of 26 January 2015, Mrs. Tochkova had legal experience as a judge for 21 years and 23 days. It was tested for the period 2007 - 2010 with a comprehensive score of 136 points. The applicant has participated in numerous seminars and other forms of professional qualification, such as: - the seminar "Administrative Justice"; - Bulgarian-German seminar for administrative judges; - training under the Law on the Protection of Classified Information; - training "Up-to-date issues on the implementation of the Law on Device in the Area, under the Law on Cadastral and Property Register and the Code on Social Security" - the seminar.......................................................................................................... - training at the points of competition and new moments in the subsidized application of the Civil Procedure Code in the administrative courts. - the course for the Presidents of the Courts "Management of Human Resources in the Judicial Administration." - the course of the new Civil Procedure Code. Thank you, Madam President, honourable Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u7	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I now expect you to present to us the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs from the hearing of the candidates for Chief Inspector at the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the hearing of candidates for Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council At its meeting held on 18 March 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs heard candidates as Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Justice: Vergenia Micheva "Ruseva" and Andrei Yankulov "Deputy Ministers." The hearing is based on a t. 4 of the decision of the National Assembly on the adoption of procedural rules for the promotion of applications, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates for Chief Inspector in the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council adopted on 11 December 2014. On the grounds of t. 3 of the Decision the order of the hearing shall be in alphabetical order of the personal names of the applicants admitted: 1. Vera Stanislavova Chochkova 2. Teodora Angelova Tochkova. On behalf of the importer, Mrs. Vera Chochkova and Mrs. Teodora Tochkova's applications were presented by the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Dear colleagues, I will not repeat the presentation of the candidates, which I did a few seconds ago. After the presentation of the candidates by the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs, the word was given to Mrs. Chochkova. In addition to her presentation, Mrs. Chochkova emphasized on the need to establish a new methodology for the work of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council in relation to its inspection activities, the creation of a single form in two parts according to the model of the attestation in an electronic version to cover in its general part the time of the cases, their formation and distribution, the storage and access of the parties to them, and in the special part to affect the work of the specific magistrates. The criteria for assessing the work of magistrates according to the applicant should be not only quantitative but also qualitative indicators. Mrs. Chochkova believes that clear standards and rules should be established for the disciplinary activities of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council, noting that it is necessary to carry out checks on whether and whether the instructions and recommendations given to the units examined have been subsequently implemented. The applicant expressed a positive assessment of the work of the Specialized Unit of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council for the examination, designation and payment of non-export benefits within a reasonable period. Mrs. Chochkova believes that the website of the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council does not meet public needs because it cannot obtain comprehensive information through it and search for such information. According to her, a detailed list is needed on the website of the competence and powers of the Inspector to the Supreme Judicial Council. In addition to her presentation, the second candidate for the order of the hearing Mrs. Tochkova defined as main objectives in the activities of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council: - analysis of the data collected during the checks; - alerting competent authorities to request the adoption of interpretation decisions or interpretation orders; - the use of the powers to make proposals to impose disciplinary penalties on magistrates and administrative directors; - strengthen the role of the magistrates' attestations and the appointments of the executives; - limiting corruption practices in judicial authorities; and - increasing accountability, publicity and transparency in the activities of the Inspector of the Supreme Judicial Council. The applicant is of the opinion that the legal framework of the work of the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council should be improved, since the procedures and procedure for calling its meetings, the order and the way to alert the authority to carry out specific checks have not been regulated in detail. Mrs. Tochkova stated that a new methodology and internal rules should be established to increase the effectiveness of the work of inspection activities. Believes that an analytical unit should be set up to sum up the cases completed with an effective judicial act, as well as the completed files and cases of prosecutors and investigators; Mrs. Tochkova emphasized that in order to improve the work of the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council, it should be analysed whether the recommendations and instructions given by him in the framework of the control activity have been implemented. According to her, in assessing the work of the courts, the actual workload of the judicial authorities should be taken into account in complying with the time limits for administration and closing of cases. As a vision for improving the powers of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council to make proposals for disciplinary penalties, Mrs. Tochkova pointed out the need to align the disciplinary practice between the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council as a verifier, the Supreme Judicial Council as a punishing authority and the Supreme Administrative Court. People's representative Filip Popov asked the candidates what their opinion was regarding the idea of dividing the Supreme Judicial Council into a judge's and prosecutor's college and whether this separation in their opinion would improve the work of the Supreme Judicial Council and the Inspectorate to it. In response to the question Mrs. Chochkova pointed out that the division of the Supreme Judicial Council into two colleges will not affect the work of the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council as it is an independent body. In relation to the question Mrs. Tochkova answered that she considered it a positive idea for the division of the Supreme Judicial Council to two colleagues................................................................................. that each college will be able to better analyse and evaluate and evaluate the work of the respective magistrate. People's representative Dimitar Lazarov raised the question where according to the candidates is the boundary between the powers and activities of the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council and the Commission on the proposals and the attestations of judges, prosecutors and investigators in the verification of the organization of the formation and movement of cases within the established deadlines. In response Mrs. Chochkova pointed out that the work of the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council was aimed at collecting data and information about the work of the magistrate so that it could serve as a basis for the work of the Commission on the proposals and the attestations of judges, prosecutors and investigators. In this regard, Mrs. Tochkova believes that the work of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council precedes the work of the Commission on the proposals and tests of judges, prosecutors and investigators and that the Commission's assessment is also formed by the Inspectorate's assessment of the work of the particular magistrate. People's representative Dimitar Delchev asked Mrs. Chochkova whether with the current funding and with the available personnel potential she will be able to realize the concept at stake. She also asked the candidate Mrs. Tochkova whether she agrees with the opinion that the checks so far have been formal and that the recommendations given by the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council have not been implemented so far. The candidates were asked how much the body provided by the Ministry of Justice to check the integrity of magistrates would affect the activities of the Inspectorate. In response Mrs. Chochkova believes that she could realise the concept she has laid down with the existing composition of inspectors and experts who are professionals in her work with high moral qualities, and in terms of funding she noted that additional funds could possibly be necessary to improve the Inspectorate's website. The candidate is of the opinion that the activities of the body to verify the integrity of magistrates will not affect the activities of the Inspectorate because the Inspectorate does not have the authority to investigate the financial and property status of magistrates, which functions are envisaged for the unit of the Ministry of Justice. Mrs. Tochkova answered the question that the Inspectorate's checks were not formal, but there was no comprehensive analysis of the data collected during the checks. The unit for checking the integrity of magistrates will, in its opinion, complement and assist the work of the Inspectorate. People's representative Yavor Notev raised the question of what is the personal motivation of the candidates to return trust in the work of the magistrates, given the constant criticism and disapproval of their activities and what are the ways to do so. In response Mrs. Tochkova pointed out that it is extremely important in her activities that the Inspectorate draw the positive examples in the work of the magistrate for which to inform the public and thus encourage the magistrates who work well and work hard. The candidate Chochkova believes that the Inspectorate is not authorised to give assessments regarding criticism and disapproval of the work of magistrates, as this is in the competence of the Committee on Professional Ethics and Prevention of Corruption at the Supreme Judicial Council, but noted that it is important to encourage magistrates who perform their duties in good faith and professionally. People's representative Svilen Ivanov asked in what time the candidates could implement the envisaged concepts. In response Mrs. Chochkova said that with good organization of the work and motivation of the inspectors and experts, the commitments made within one year of her election can be made, and Mrs. Tochkova believes that within a reasonable time and with the efforts of everyone in the Inspectorate, the confidence of society in the judiciary can be increased. She pointed out as a possible first step verification of all the websites of the courts to check whether the judicial acts are uploaded in due time. People's representative Petar Slavov raised questions about the principle of accidental distribution of cases and the need to build a better system of access to information in cases. In response to the questions asked, the applicants argued that the issue of accidental distribution of cases is essential and that non-compliance with the principle leads to corrupt practices. Candidates consider the introduction of e-Justice as a positive goal, as well as the uniformisation of the websites of courts. The Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs Danail Kirilov asked the candidates whether they thought that a software product could solve the problem of accidental distribution of cases, pointing out that by 2006, the distribution of cases was personally responsible for compliance with the principle. He also raised the question, according to the candidates, what legal changes they would have made with regard to the constitutionally defined status of the Inspectorate if they could have done so. With regard to the principle of random distribution of cases, Mrs. Chochkova believes that human intervention should be limited to a minimum and the second question raised is of the opinion that the Chief Inspector and the Inspectors of the Inspectorate should be elected by the Supreme Judicial Council, not by the National Assembly, by introducing a quota principle with inspectors depending on the number of judges, prosecutors and investigators. In response to the questions asked, Mrs. Tochkova considers that the distribution of cases should be the prerogative of the Presidents of the courts who are responsible for the use of the accidental distribution system. According to her, it is necessary to select inspectors who can meet the need for judicial checks. In conclusion and in summary of the results of the implementation of the powers of the Committee on Legal Affairs within the framework of the procedure to produce the election of the Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council, the following conclusions were drawn: The proposed candidates Ms. Vera Chochkova and Mrs. Teodora Tochkova meet the minimum legal requirements, possess the necessary qualities and preparation for taking up the position of Chief Inspector at the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. In support of both applications, an opinion has been submitted by a professional organisation of the Judges. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, no information has been received containing data to question the moral qualities of candidates, their qualifications, experience and professional qualities. The Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes for.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Shall I continue with the apps?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u9	You must continue, Mr. Kirilov. I see it's been a very long report. The ten minutes are long past. I take it the importance of choice requires this. Present the projects as a solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u10	Project of: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the election of the Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8, Art. 86, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 132a, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 42, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 46 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED He elected Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council Vera Stanislavova Chochkova. Project of: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the election of the Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8, Art. 86, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 132a, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 42, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 46 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED He elected Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council Teodora Angelova Tochkova. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u11	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Debates are open. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to participate in them to give a sign. I reminded you at the beginning of the Rules of Procedure. There is an opportunity, despite the hearing in the Legal Committee of the submitted applications, despite the detailed report by the Legal Committee, colleagues, each of us is free to ask questions here. Are there any MPs willing to take part in the debate? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u12	Honourable Members, Madam President, Dear Minister! I don't think such an important choice should go without a single statement. The fact is that what will happen today in plenary is extremely important for the attitude of the people's representation towards the state and the reform of the judiciary. We are all aware that one of the most important bodies in the judicial system, the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council, has been in practice without the Chief Judicial Inspector for the second year. In the election of the Chief Judicial Inspector, several majorities crashed. This majority has its chance to be truly responsible for the state of the judiciary, for the expectations of citizens and to unite around the election of a chief judicial inspector. I realise that the speech of an opposition representative is not the best start for this debate, especially if this remains the only statement. I would recall the fact that the two applications that we are looking at today are proposed by a professional organisation, by the Union of Judges. They were also imported into the previous composition of the Bulgarian Parliament. Then we couldn't get support for one of the two candidates anyway. They are now submitted by consensus, with an understanding of representatives of all parliamentary forces. Hearings were held twice in both the Legal Committee of the previous Parliament and in this Parliament. I, as a lawyer, as Vice-President of the Legal Commission, cannot help but admit that the presentation of both candidates is worthy of respect, with decent professional biographies, professional capacity, with opportunities, experience in the judiciary, moral qualities. So I would say good words for both candidates, but since the choice is one, and since everyone will have to determine their vote, although with the opportunities that have been presented by the management of this process, with the possibility of voting for both candidates, I will say what my choice is. Once I have also been thoroughly acquainted with the biographies, and have listened twice to the two candidates as Chief Judicial Inspector, I will support Judge Teodora Tochkova's candidacy, who is chairman of the Administrative Court in Haskovo. There's plenty of experience in the justice system. She's been through all the levels, she knows her inside. She was a regional judge, county judge. She was the head of the Administrative Court. There is a clear concept of what the role of the Inspectorate is in implementing the reform of the judiciary. He responded convincingly to all the questions during the hearings. Besides, I know her because, although it's not written in her biography, she's from Kyustendil. She graduated from high school there, a straight-A student. [[Noise and lines.]] I know her family, respectable Kyustendilians, an emblem of the city. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Either way, these are facts that anyone can see, getting acquainted with her biography. I have every reason, knowing her and her work, the authority she enjoys as a judge, the level of the Haskovo Administrative Court, which is among the leaders of this system, to say that I will support this candidacy. I hope that all Members of the National Assembly will act responsibly enough. The opposition's support, when seeking a two-thirds majority, should be a plus and not a minus for one candidate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? I won't. Do other MPs wish to take the floor? I can't see. Ah, Mr. Kirilov. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Here you go. Mr. Hamid just said he can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u14	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Since I had the opportunity to present the report in full, as well as the candidates, I will not go back to the details of the procedure, I will only share my personal impressions of the procedure and of the candidates. This is the third choice procedure. I hope and sincerely hope that we will achieve such a result that the choice in this case is real, is realized. With regard to candidates who are taking part in the procedure for the second time, I would like to share the extremely positive attitude towards both candidates. Both candidates are worthy professionals, both candidates have outstanding and undisputed experience in judicial proceedings, both candidates have the qualities, in my view, to carry out the heavy task of being inspector at the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council. I neglected to say that both candidates are likely to be able to address some personal preference. Mrs. Vera Chochkova and I were classmates from a class of Sofia University. [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Tochkova, along the lines of my regional bias towards my birthplace, she is from...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u15	Colleagues, there will be no MPs left to vote with these personal... [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u16	Personal preference. [[Laughter and excitement.]] But in the vote I will prefer and vote for Mrs. Tochkova. Thank you. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u17	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? There aren't any. We're closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Before that, however, there were no specific questions, but still under the procedure, Mrs. Chochkova, Mrs. Tochkova, if you wish, you could share something with the MPs. Since there were no questions, I was quick to close the debate. I take it there's no desire. Thank you. Debates closed. Let's move on to the vote. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Two draft decisions have been presented to the Legal Commission report, which Mr. Kirilov introduced you to. The draft decision will be put to the vote in accordance with the procedural rules of the candidates in alphabetical order. I put to the vote the draft decision for the election of Chief Inspector at the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council for the election as Chief Inspector of Mrs. Vera Stanislavova Chochkova, the first draft decision in alphabetical order. We vote for Mrs. Chochkova. They voted 161 MPs: 35, against 2, abstention 124. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a draft decision for the election of Chief Inspector in the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council................................... the candidacy of Mrs Teodora Angelova Tochkova. Vote 197 MPs: 195 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. [[Applause.]] Ms. Teodora Tochkova was elected Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. Let's wish you good luck in Mrs. Tochkova's work! With relief to sigh that we have had this extremely important choice, albeit a third time. Negative vote, Mr. Velizar Enchev. [[Noise and shouting from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u18	I'll be brief, but clear. After yesterday BSP hugged GERB party for military bases, today again we see a coalition - I do not say wicked, in any sense, as I cannot judge for the professional characteristics of the rejected lady. But let the Bulgarian people understand that today we have witnessed a very strange coalition so unanimous that it is very questionable, which is why I think [[screams, lines, noise]] That the two ladies had to be heard. [[GERB lines.]] They have been heard in the parliamentary committee, but Bulgarian citizens have not heard their views, views and positions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u19	They've been heard several times. We've given the opportunity, if you'd like... [[Replying, chanting and banging on the banks from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u20	That's all I wanted to say. I repeat once again for those who have not heard well and who are chanting. [[GERB reply]] And on that point I will answer you, sir from GERB. Today, the Bulgarian people must know that there is a wicked coalition without the motivation for the coalition to be heard in this Parliament. You all make this choice in the dark and you very well know it. How is it possible that only one voice against one voice exists?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u21	Mr. Lazarov's manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u22	Dear Madam President, very please do not allow this tribune, although in the form of a negative vote or by procedural rules, to speak untruths. The hearing, which was held about two weeks ago, was broadcast on Bulgarian television. Every Bulgarian citizen who wanted to, and there were because there were also questions asked, there were representatives of NGOs who participated in this hearing. Questions were also asked. The people who were interested were informed. It is a pity that MPs are not interested but are looking for the stands to make populistic speeches. Please do not allow such lies to be presented from the stand of the National Assembly. The choice was open. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u23	You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u24	And I suggest that you, Madam President, do not allow the stands of Members of the National Assembly to be silenced by other Members of the National Assembly. This was an arranged match in which Ataka did not participate. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] A week ago Volen Siderov said from this tribune that the coalition is seven and we do not participate in agreed matches. That's what happened now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u25	Mr. Stanilov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u26	To speak out of the stands of not giving the floor to this one not to speak to him because he had an unsavory opinion or has any opinion at all is a disgrace to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u27	Since two procedures have been referred to me in the manner of conduct, I share what Prof. Stanilov, that in no way can be denied the right to a negative vote of any MP. However, I absolutely do not share the primitive reasoning, I regret my assessment that the result of a specific vote in the implementation of the constitutional obligation of the National Assembly to elect by a majority of 160 votes an inspector in the Inspectorate is the result of a coalition. I'm sorry, to fellow Members who come up with such a claim, too primitively, superficially, untruely, essentially an honest lie. Let's move on to the next point: SELECTION OF THE COMMISSION'S PRESENT AND MEMBERS FOR ENERGY AND WATER REGULATION. I remind you of the rules: The election of President and Members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission by the National Assembly: 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. Here is the time to inform you that there are not enough seats available from the designated guests in plenary, which is why the candidates will be on the balcony of the plenary. 2. The National Assembly shall hear the report of the Energy Committee. 3. Discussions shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 4. The National Assembly shall elect separately the Chair of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and four members with experience in the field of energy, two members with experience in the field of water supply and sewerage, one lawyer and one economist. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for one position, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the own names of the candidates, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the House shall be elected. 7. Where none of the candidates for the position concerned receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall take place, in which the two candidates who received the most votes for the position concerned shall take part. 8. If none of the candidates for the respective position receive the necessary votes during the re-voting, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. A report from the Energy Commission on the hearing of candidates for Chairman and members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has come in. I expect Mr. Dobrev to present the Report to us, and before that he will probably make an offer of admission, albeit on the balcony. Actually, the balcony doesn't need a proposal. They're already on the balcony.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe As regards the hearing of candidates for Chairman and Members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission At its extraordinary meeting held on 31 March 2015, the Energy Commission held a hearing of the proposed candidates for Chair and members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission (EWRC) under Section III of the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Chair and members of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulation, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Energy Commission, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, hereinafter referred to as the Rules of Procedure. The sitting was broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. At the beginning of the meeting, the Chairman of the Energy Commission Delyan Dobrev noted that the proposed candidates met the requirements of the Energy Act for the posts for which they were proposed and should be admitted to a hearing. As Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, Assoc. Dr. Ivan Ivanov. Assoc. Prof. Dr. Ivan Ivanov, proposed by Radan Kanev, Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs, the Parliamentary Group of He pointed out that Ivan Ivanov, in addition to the Master Engineer's education degree, has also a scientific qualification of a professor and a PhD in the field of technical sciences. He has extensive research and teaching activities at the Technical University of Sofia, New Bulgarian University and higher engineering schools in Tunisia and France. In the field of energy, he has led and participated in 16 research developments. Author of a monograph and more than 60 articles and reports devoted to methods and means of measuring energy. He has conducted lectures in Bulgarian and French in a number of disciplines: The main areas of his scientific interests are: - Production and analysis of energy strategies; - Management and regulations of energy carriers; - Transfer and distribution of different types of energy; - Electronic meters; - Measurement of electrical and non-electric quantities; - Computer-designing measuring instruments. It was stressed that the candidate, who was a Member of Parliament in 4 mandates of the National Assembly from 1997 to 2013, worked in public interest service, defending always principled positions. The candidates of Alexander Yordanov, Boyan Boev, Valentin Terziyski, Vladko Vladimirov, Georgi Zlatev, Evgenia Haritonova, Elena Marinova, Elenko Bozhkov, Ilian Iliev, Lubomir Denchev, Petko Mihaylov and Slavcho Smilkov are nominated for members of KEWR with internship in the field of energy. Alexander Yordanov, proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, was presented by the National Representative Valeri Simeonov. He noted that the applicant is a Master of Economics with a longstanding experience in the field of energy and has held the position of Head of the Department of Internal Affairs in the Department of Commerce and Industry in the Department of Energy. From 2007 to 2011 he was the Executive Director of the Business Energy Bulgaria and from 2011 to 2013 he was an energy expert. Boyan Boev, proposed by Rumen Yonchev the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Center of Democracy, was presented by the MP Yavor Haytov. He pointed out that the entire career of the proposed candidate is directly related to the sector......................................................................................... He worked at the largest thermal power plant in the world, and passed through the company's hierarchy. He was the CEO of the largest holding structure in the country. He was appointed President of the SEWRC at the end of 2013 where he worked until September 2014. Valentin Terziyski, proposed by the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria (Bulgaria), was presented by the MP Tasco Ermenkov. He is an electric engineer, specialty He has years of experience in the thermal energy system. He was the executive director of "Toplofication" Pleven "AD." One of the founders of the Association of Heat Foundations and its Head in the period 2008-2011. He was involved in the drafting of the legislation in the sector............................................................................................ Vladko Vladimirov, proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the "Patriotic Front" was presented by the MP Valeri Simeonov. Master of mining technology with years of experience in the field of energy. He has worked as Director of the Technical and Economic Affairs Department in Minnie Maritsa East. Radnevo, as Director of Economics and Finance. Radnevo, Director of Commerce in Minnie Bobov Dol. Bobov Dol, and as Head of Kyustendil. Georgi Zlatev, proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Center of Democracy, was presented by the National Representative Georgi Nedev. The candidate has completed his higher education with a specialty of electrics and the acquired qualification. He has many years of professional experience in the energy sector. His professional career began as a watchman mainly el. Board and successively pass through the posts: workshop Energetic, Deputy Head of Work, Electric, Deputy Chief Repair Engineer, Deputy Executive Director, Executive Director. In 2012 he was appointed Executive Director of Brikel "EAD". Galabovo and 2014 "For Executive Director of "Mini Maritsa" East " EAD "Mini Maritsa" Radnevo. He has participated in the development of a number of strategies for the development of heating companies, as well as in numerous projects in the public and private sectors that have contributed to the development of energy. Evgenia Haritonova, proposed by the parliamentary group of political party GERB, was represented by the MP Delyan Dobrev. He noted that the applicant is by profession of...................................................................................................... with years of experience in the field of energy. She has worked for 23 years at the Tehenergo EAD from expert to head of management. In the National Electricity Company (NEC) EAD is the head of the project "Energy 1" financed by the World Bank. He was a member of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in the first term since its establishment, as well as in the period 2010-2012. From 2000 to 2010 he worked at NEK "Net Networks" which was subsequently transformed into an electric system operator. From 2012 to March 2013 he was Deputy Minister of Economy and Energy. He's a member of the KEWRC now. Elena Marinova, proposed by Dimitar Delchev, the Parliamentary Group of the Reformator Unit, was presented by the MP. He said the candidate is a Master of Law, a civil servant of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission from 2000 to 2009 and from 2014 until now. She has passed through all positions in the hierarchy of administration from the position of a junior expert to the Director of the Legal Directorate. Elenko Bozhkov, proposed by the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria and presented by the MP Tasco Ermenkov. The candidate is a Master Electric Engineer, who has worked since 1993 in the field of electricity, such as three years in NEC, two years in the Ministry of Energy and two years in the Ministry of Energy. He has experience in energy efficiency. He has led engineering and installation activities in the rehabilitation of TPP Maritsa East 3s. From June 2013 to August 2014 he was a member of the SEWRC, responsible for electricity and heat prices, energy networks and licensing companies for electricity and heat production and energy traders. Ilian Iliev, proposed by the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria and was presented by the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev. He has been a Master of Electric Engineer and works in the field of energy since 2001. He has been a dispatcher, head of district and head of regional unit in Pleven. Since 2012 he has worked at the SEWRC as a chief expert and since 2013 he has been a member of the Commission. Lyubomir Denchev, proposed by the parliamentary group BSP left Bulgaria, was presented by the MP Tasco Ermenkov. Master of Economics, the candidate has a doctorate and a long professional experience in the field of energy. He has taken senior management positions supposed executive director of Bulgargaz-EAD, Bulgargaz-St., Secretary of the Working Group on the Development of a Project for Energy Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria up to 2030. There are numerous specializations and publications in the sector of Natural gas. Petko Mihailov, proposed by the parliamentary group "Patriotic Front" was presented by the MP Valeri Simeonov. An e-engineer by education with a long experience in the field of energy, starting his professional career as an operator mainly el. Board and gradually rises to Chief El. plant in TPP "Maritsa Iztok 2" EAD. Currently he is the manager of the Energyimport Export Ltd., gr. Stara Zagora. Slavcho Smilkov, proposed by Borislav Milanov, the parliamentary group "Reformator block" is a master engineer with 38 years of service in the field of energy. He has long-standing management experience as a manager of an energy company, and in recent years he has led the Department of Complaints and Work with users in the SEWRC. During the years of his engineering career he participated in the implementation of some of the latest innovations in energy construction. The applications of Valentin Petkov, Dimitar Kochkov and Petar Boyadzhiev are issued for members of the KEWRC with internship in the field of water supply and sewerage. Valentin Petkov, proposed by Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and a group of MPs from the parliamentary group As Deputy Manager of the Water and Water and Water Agency, he works on planning, organization and management of activities for the provision of water services by the company. Since 2006, he has been working as Head of the Department of the Directorate General of the SEWRC. Since 2011, he has been head of the Department of the Directorate General for Complaints and Dispute Resolution. Dimitar Kochkov, proposed by the parliamentary group "BSP left Bulgaria" was presented by the MP Zhelyo Boychev. Master Water and Sewerage Engineer, who has worked in the water and sewer sector since 1991. He has been a consultant and designer and since 2002 Deputy Director of the Water and Canal Pleven. Founder and active member of the Bulgarian National Water Quality Association, Bulgarian Water Association, Chamber of Investment Design Engineers. National Representative in the 42nd National Assembly, Member of the Investment Design Commission. Petar Boyadzhiev, proposed by the parliamentary group BSP left Bulgaria, was presented by the MP Zhelyo Boychev. The candidate is a machine engineer and has been implementing innovative development for water control and consumption since 1990. Since 2005 he has worked in the water sector, member of the Bulgarian Water Association. He has participated in the Working Group on the Construction of the Water Act (2009).), an active participant in the development of the plan of the Water and Water and Water Waters - Plovdiv for the period 2008-2013. He was head of the Department of Water and Water in the Roads of Plovdiv. He was in charge of moving, updating the water supply systems related to the road facilities and the Maritsa Motorway and Lot 1. Since 2013, Plovdiv has been involved in the reform of the sector in the area, Deputy Manager and Head of the teams for the implementation of remote reporting, update of information and repair activities. An expert in water price formation, yield, transmission, dropped under the Public Procurement Act. The candidates of Elena Marinova, who was proposed and presented as a member of the KEWRC with internship in the field of energy, Milena Milanova and Remzi Osman, were appointed as members of the KEWRC. Milena Milanova, proposed by the parliamentary group "Patriotic Front" was presented by the MP Valeri Simeonov. A Master of Law whose career began in 1991 as a legal consultant at the CDC. In the period 1992-1996 he was a Legal Affairs Advisor to the National Assembly. In 1996-2007 he was Chief Legal Consultant of Sofia Municipality. He has an internship as Head of the Department of Charges at the Financial Intelligence Directorate at the State Agency of National Security. He's a member of the KEWRC now. Remzi Osman, proposed by the parliamentary group "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" was presented by the MP Ramadan Atalay. The candidate is a Master of Law and has experience as a lawyer, member of the Sofia Bar Association. Member of the National Assembly in 7 consecutive terms from 1990 to 2013. Member of the Committee on Regional Policy, Local Government and Public Works in the National Assembly, and was also President of the Commission between 2001 and 2005 and 2009 and in the period 1997 2001 was Vice-President of the Commission. Member of the Legal Committee of the National Assembly. He has actively participated in the preparation and adoption of regulations in the field of regional policy, local self-government, public works and water sector. The candidates of Rumyana Krasteva and Svetla Todorova have been nominated for members of the KEWR Economists. Rumyana Krasteva, proposed by the parliamentary group Patriotic Front, was represented by the MP Valeri Simeonov. Master of Finance and Credit with longstanding experience in the field of energy. She has worked as a Deputy Chief Accountant for 4 years in the "NEK EAD" - Sofia, as Head of Department "Regulation and Economic Analysis" in the "ESO" - Sofia, Accountant in the "Bulgargaz EAD" - Sofia, Head of Economic Management in the "ViK" Ltd. Montana, currently NEK. Svetla Todorova, proposed by the parliamentary group of GERB, was presented by the MP Delyan Dobrev, who pointed out that the candidate has 35 years of professional experience in the energy sector. Deeply knows the principles and methods of regulation and has experience in economic analysis, economic modelling and development of price models. He has in-depth knowledge of the European Union's requirements in the field of electricity, natural gas and renewables, as well as consulting experience in European Commission projects, the American Agency for International Development and regulatory authorities. She has taken positions as Head of Department, Director and Chairman of the Regulatory Commission, as well as Head of the European Commission project team. She specialized in Britain's energy regulator. The candidates for Chairman and members of the KEWRC presented to the Energy Committee their concepts of the Commission's activities. Ivan Ivanov, candidate for President of the Commission, outlined his views on energy reforms, both in the regulator and in the sectors. He said his main goal is to increase the authority, independence and competence of the committee, stressing that it has always been corporate independent. Notes that a change in regulatory structures related to the recently created Energy Union is needed. Add that all positions in the KEWRC should be held after a transparent competition and stressed the financial independence of the body to ensure good administrative capacity. Its personal aim is with the joint efforts of the Commission and the Ministry of Energy to minimize and clear the current NEK deficit, create an energy exchange and, if it cannot be reduced, at least to keep electricity prices. With regard to the water sector, regulations have been prepared with the help of the World Bank to be adopted. He stated that the limit must be changed at an acceptable price for household water. With regard to heating, it pointed out that there is no motivation for the development of the networks, the lack of management, their monopoly position, and that there is no motivation for the development of the networks with regard to natural gas. The concepts presented by the candidates mainly highlighted the guarantee of the independence of the Commission as a regulatory authority; the budgetary autonomy of the body; the transparency in the work of the Commission and the increase of administrative capacity; the introduction of a reliable and transparent tariff system; the close interaction of the KEWR with the Commission for Protection of Competition; the Commission for Consumer Protection and the Ministry of Energy; the full introduction of the third energy liberalisation package; the full and comprehensive analysis of gas companies; the development of the sub-legal legal framework to guarantee investors the prognosis and stability of investment; the security and continuity of supply; the development of the transport infrastructure; the preservation of the interests of consumers who can freely change their supplier; the increase of energy efficiency of companies and households; the reduction of cross-border indebtedness; the balancing of the interests of companies and consumers; the establishment of national register of market participants; reforms in the water sector Discussions were held in the Energy Committee on proposals for candidates for President and members of the KEWRC. The Members of the National Assembly asked their questions to the candidates who were answered in depth and comprehensively. In the Energy Committee, a position of the Free Energy Market Association was adopted on the nominations for Chairman and members of the KEWRC, which supports the latest amendments to the Energy Act, as well as the independence of the Commission, but also concerns that only MPs and parliamentary groups can make proposals for candidates. According to Section III, t. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, the Chairman of the Energy Commission Delyan Dobrev asked in summary the questions of incomplete autobiographical reference to Svetla Todorova, participation in the privatisation of the ERP and lack of access to classified information to which she responded categorically and convincingly. Following the hearing, the Energy Commission found that the candidates met the requirements of the Energy Act for taking up the relevant position for which they were proposed. On the basis of the hearing, the Committee on Energy proposed to the National Assembly to examine and vote in accordance with Section IV of the Rules of Procedure the applications of Ivan Ivanov, Alexander Yordanov, Boyan Boev, Valentin Terziyski, Vladko Vladimirov, Georgi Zlatev, Evgenia Haritonova, Elena Marinova, Elenko Bozhkov, Ilian Iliev, Lubomir Denchev, Petko Mihailov, Slavcho Smilkov, Valentin Petkov, Dimitar Kochkov, Petar Boyadjiev, Milena Milanova, Remzi Osman, Rumyana Krasteva and Svetla Todorova, for which it applied to the report a draft decision for each candidate for the respective position.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Come in for a procedure suppose the People's Representative Krasimir Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I use the possibility of direct transmission procedure on the Bulgarian National Television and BNR of the debate, as I think it is extremely important what composition the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission will have and this debate should be seen and heard by Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u31	Thank you. A reverse opinion? The people's representative Mrs. Tsacheva has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u32	Honourable Members, it is no accident that we started this point by recalling the procedural rules where, by a deliberate decision of the National Assembly, we have stated that the present presentation of the candidates, the debate and the vote on this point are broadcast on the website of the National Assembly. For this reason, I believe that it is not a good sign once a decision has been adopted, which has highlighted the will of the Members of the National Assembly, the Adhok situation to change it because of the ideas of Members of the National Assembly. Thanks for the evaluation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u33	It's all over the Internet!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u34	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Please, voting mode. They voted 102 MPs, 25 against 48, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u35	Madam President, honourable Members! You can see that there are currently colleagues who have failed to participate in the vote. And, Mrs. Tsacheva, it's not a question of ideas. It is about the choice of one of the authorities, which reaches every home of the Bulgarian citizens. And that's what people care about! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u36	I would like to rethink the proposal made by the National Representative Krasimir Yankov. Please, vote mode. They voted 152 MPs: 32, against 76, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u37	Honourable Members of the Parliament, the Energy Commission report is accompanied by draft decisions for the appointment of the Chair of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission with the candidacy, the name of the applicant, draft decisions for the election of a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for each of the candidates who have been heard in the Commission. When moving to the specific solution I will introduce you so that we do not read at the moment a number of solutions with the same content. I'm opening the debate. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u38	Madam President, honourable Members! I thank all those who are back in this Chamber and will participate even by listening to this debate - extremely important - for the composition of the future Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The very fact that the MPs who took part in the vote did not decide to make this public and through the means of information through the BNR and BNT clearly shows that the future composition of the Commission will actually be the political quotas, as they were decided before the vote itself and even before this debate. However, honourable Members, will the expertise of the future members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission meet the requirements of the Bulgarian citizens, their expectations and be consistent with this request, which the Commission will have? And it is to be an independent regulatory authority, not to be influenced by political parties and politicians. The very fact that there is a single proposal for the chairman of the future committee, on which his CV is mostly related to this parliamentary hall, clearly shows that politicians will, in fact, be responsible for the future decisions of the responsible regulator. I would like to remind you of a few facts, and they are also in relation to the answer I received at the hearing by Mr. Ivan Ivanov, proposed as Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. At the hearing, I asked what was Mr. Ivanov's participation in the period of conclusion of long-term contracts with the plants "Maritsa Iztok 1" and "Maritsa Iztok 3". This treaty was signed on 13 June in the presence of the then Prime Minister Ivan Kostov. My question was dictated by the undisputed fact that when the party of Ivan Kostov is created, Mr. Ivanov is vice-president of Ivan Kostov, and in fact the price of the end users the regulated price of electricity is mainly of this high value because of these long-term contracts. Everyone should know that when determining this mix at the regulated price, firstly, electricity from the power plants issues, long-term buy-in contracts, which are: one is up to 2024, the other is up to 2027. Then, in this energy mix, is the lowest produced price from the Atomic Power Plant and from the state thermal power plant Maritsa East 2 In fact, if we do not have this high price, the long-term purchase made as a commitment by the state will be much lower, and Mr. Ivanov will not talk about his future intentions as President, and the Commission that he can do everything possible to keep the price, and it would be lower. Thanks to Mr. Dobrev, because as a minister on 9 June 2012 he made these facts public with a display of the contracts, so that it is clear why the price of electricity to household consumers is such at the moment. From this cargo Mr. Ivanov will hardly escape. His future actions will be monitored, analyzed by the Bulgarian Socialist Party and we will inform the Bulgarian citizens in due time because we believe that he is burdened and burdened by this closeness and commitment by Ivan Kostov. Dear colleagues, the composition of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission should mostly inspire confidence in Bulgarian citizens. Our commitment is to elect Commissioners, members of the independent regulator to be guided by the interests of Bulgarian citizens. I call on you in this debate and before the vote itself to take a decision and support the undisputed professionals from the proposed applications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u39	By procedure, please come in. Mr. Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of a parliamentary group, we'd like to take a half hour off. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u41	It's 10:25. I suggest the rest will continue until 10:45. We'll continue the session at 10:45. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u42	Colleagues, following Mr. Iankov's speech, the procedure for interrupting the meeting was carried out. Now I have to ask a question: is there any lines to Mr. Iankov's statement? I don't see any MPs who want to replicate Mr. Iankov. To speak, Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Today, the National Assembly is about to make a very important choice for the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. I would like to call for a professional and serious debate to be held from this tribune, because it made a very bad impression on me what a fellow Member from the left said just now. He said: "He is most worried that there are no other candidates. Okay, guys, why didn't you raise? You had every right to offer whoever you wanted, including the doyena of the left in energy Rumen Ovcharov. Why didn't you suggest it? You didn't offer any candidates. See what is the demagogy.. do not offer candidates, do not raise anyone and the first speech they make say: Why is there only one candidate?............................. There's one, coworkers, because you didn't make it. And although they have not raised, this means that in this complex situation in the energy sector they do not want to take responsibility, so there are no candidates, because in this difficult situation in which Bulgarian energy is located, they did not ask at all to even think to take responsibility, to give any alternative. What made my impression even worse, fellow Members, was that an attempt was made to make a professional, an honest man from the beginning to be obsessed to be weakened. It is clear to the colleagues on the left that this person, given the fact that they themselves have not raised a candidate, will be elected, but an attempt has been made for his defamation, not for anything else, but to try to be weakened from the very beginning, not to be able to complete his key obligations in energy. Knowing Ivan Ivanov's character, I think and I am convinced that you will not succeed in these attempts, and not for anything else, but because the colleague on the left who spoke could not say something bad, a bad deed for the candidate for Chairman. He couldn't give any serious examples. One thing was said: what Ivan Ivanov was doing in 2000-2001. Only then, if you had checked and had not walked along the elementary plane of demagogy, you would have seen that during this period the candidate for president had not been involved in energy. He is in the Committee on Education and in the Committee on Foreign Policy, representative of Bulgaria in the Council of Europe, but for colleagues on the left it does not matter. They say whatever they want, when they want, the facts, unfortunately, very rarely matter. I'll stop here. I will say the following thing - let us talk about the professional qualities of the candidates, about their capabilities, about their authority and based on our decisions, and not about entering into petty, vicious, personal attacks, which over the years have always represented Parliament in an unnecessary unfavorable light. It is important for us that the new Energy and Water Regulatory Commission solves years of energy problems. In the Commission, which holds Valeri Simeonov, yesterday we gathered colleagues from all parliamentary groups and saw fierce problems, including in price policy, non-compliance with a number of laws for years, which probably happened with political patronage. These problems can be solved by a new, authoritative and strong Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, by people who have no dependencies and can make the right decisions. There's a chance we'll choose such a committee. I am convinced that among the possible candidates for President, the proposal made is very serious. There are no competitors for a reason, but there are no competitors for two reasons. The first one I've already told you is that few people dare to even think about taking that responsibility. The second reason is that Ivan Ivanov's candidacy itself is very serious, to a person who for years has taught, worked in this field, has scientific publications, serious monographs, research. Ladies and gentlemen, let the debate continue on the ground, consider applications according to their qualities, work done and take decisions on this basis, so that we have a regulator that starts on the first day to solve the problems accumulated for many years in this sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u44	First line, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I am very interested in how you talk about demagogy and it is clear to everyone that the quotas are allocated, it is clear that the majority will achieve a majority, the Commission is divided. Do not attempt in any way to transfer to the opposition that you will give them one or two seats in this Commission. The final result of the vote will be political and it will correspond to the deal in the ruling majority. That's why you don't want it on TV, so you're trying to shift the discussion over personal qualities. You've allocated the seats, and that's why people don't trust the National Assembly, because there are some things they say here. [[GERB lines]] That's a long way from reality. The seats are set up, the vote will show it. So all this wasting time is pretty pointless. This is about demagogy, Mr. Dimitrov. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u46	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u47	Dear colleagues, Mr. Mikov! When you started making a line, I thought you were coming to make Rumen Ovcharov president of the Commission and I was a little disappointed, I admit.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u48	We're not going to humiliate him!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u49	But you have to admit for yourself that there are not enough of your people to be supported. How, for example, should BSP's candidacy be supported by the left-wing chair when you have not raised one? How do I do that? Imagine that many people would potentially vote for a good candidacy, but since you haven't presented one, how do you do that? I mean, it's typical demagogy to say you don't get seats and not raise candidates. If you don't have candidates, of course your representative will not be elected chairman. It's a demagogy, Mr. Mikov, nothing more, nothing less, simple demagogy. As much as you're trying to twist things around, I don't see any other solution. Otherwise, I am convinced that the selection of candidates will depend exclusively on their performance during the hearing, on their professional qualities, the work done so far. In no case will the choice of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission be politically burdened. I don't believe that. But, you know what? The BSP colleagues, because they have made such elections for many years, exclusively and only politically, do not believe at all that the other is possible. [[Reply from MP Mihail Mikov.]] They don't believe at all after 20 years, and even before that, before 1989, these people, as one colleague of theirs said, 30 years, they are all the same people who have made only political elections, do not believe that something different is possible. They do not believe that it is possible for people to be chosen for their professional qualities. After all, colleagues, if it were a simple political choice, it was logical for the largest party GERB to choose one of their own, to say that we are the most in this Parliament, we win, I will try to quote Prime Minister Borisov 13 times in the elections, if not 13 times, is 15, say...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u50	If it's not 15, it'll work.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u51	...that is why it will become a reason for GERB's candidate to be proposed as chairman of this committee. You see, this is not the case, not the party that won the election, which raises a candidate. This means that professional qualities are viewed, experience is seen, personal qualities are viewed. That is what disproves your thesis that this is about political agreements. On the contrary, we have looked at a suitable person for this post, a determined one who has done the necessary competent work over the years and who is going towards the change and reforms that we have promised people.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u52	Any other MPs for speeches? Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u53	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As a member of the Energy Commission, I have had the opportunity to get acquainted in detail with the proposals for President and Members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, as well as to listen to their presentation, their protections and positions as possible members. Personally, as a technical person, however, I was pleasantly surprised by the high qualifications that the majority of representatives demonstrated, not to say almost everyone. People who are offered by the various MPs and political forces have a good qualification that allows them to take up this highly responsible post. And he is highly responsible because one of the deepest crises in Bulgaria's modern economy is the energy crisis. It is triggered by a number of unreasonable actions, by a number of misguided laws, inconsistent regulations and the lack of coordination between the various institutions in this sector. The decision we are making right now is extremely responsible. I dare say that it will depend on the assessment of this governance after a certain period of time has passed, but it will be determined precisely by this decision, which we will take today and in the development of our decision on what this authority will do... the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, and whether it will stop the increase of the price of electricity, which is one of the most serious problems of the impoverished Bulgarian society. So the solution is very responsible. In this case, the discussion began with a political nuance. I appeal from now on to focus on professional qualities and to comment on them, as well as on the possibilities for drawing up a working team. That's a lot more important than proving who was close to whom, who was whose person. Such rumors of regret in our gossip community go for everyone. For everyone, such reproaches and slanders can be brought out, but I do not think that we should do this right now, nor do we need to prove which political power is more qualified and which is less qualified. I propose that we simply stop with this politicisation and focus on the responsible task, which will determine the future not only of our National Assembly, of this government, but also of Bulgaria. We have a very responsible task at the moment. In this regard, I would like to express my disagreement with a single proposal and it is for Mr Remzi Osman. My disagreement is not dictated by political reasons, as I will be condemned, I'm sure. Whatever I say, I'll be blamed for it. However, by getting acquainted with the biographies of all the other candidates, unfortunately, only in the case of Mr. Osman can the conclusion be drawn that this is a political candidacy, as his biography has nothing to do with either the sector.......................................................................... I know what you're going to say! You of the DPS are offering it as a lawyer to the Commission and you will say that there is no need to have knowledge. But it's not! Remember that we are talking about a constantly changing regulatory base, extremely complicated and complicated in the last few years as a result of the various governments which, unfortunately, have to admit that they have tried to use this body to carry out economic, firstly, and hence certain political objectives. In the case of Mr. Osman, I cannot accept that he, as a member of the Bar Association and a person with practice, although I do not know what practice a person with 12 years' stay may have until last year in the National Assembly... But whatever! Even so, I think we should choose a person here who is aware of national and European legislation, a person with experience in this area. On the list of proposals put to your attention, there is such a person. There is such a person and this is Mrs. Milena Milanova, the current lawyer of the former SEWRC, currently KEWRC. Mrs. Milanova for five years is the lawyer of this body. It has extremely extensive experience, as it is the person who has prepared the changes, regulations, concerted with European legislation, the person who has prepared and followed the movement of the two complaints made to the European Union related to the request for a position in relation to state assistance for.............................................................................. In other words, it's a man with enough experience. I'd ask Mrs. Milanova to get up so everyone can see her. This is the lawyer of the current Commission. I think we'll make a mistake if we don't give Mrs. Milanova the opportunity to continue doing the work she's done so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u54	In five years, why didn't you do it?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u55	The rest is this: to appear in a race from which the outcome depends, I would say, extremely much at this race to have one Yvette Lalova, but not to let her go on the first track. I call on you: put aside any political bias and vote for our Yvette Lalova!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u56	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u57	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, the party "Attack" strongly objects to Mr. Ivan Ivanov's nomination for president of a body that must be, above all, independent. We believe that Mr. Ivan Ivanov, despite his internship as a lecturer and expert in electric energy, cannot be its leader, as he is party and corporate committed to a policy that has gone bankrupt all over the world. I would just like to remind you that from 2000 until 2 months ago Mr. Ivan Ivanov was a member of the leadership of the party, which concluded the two contracts with US corporations for TPP Maritsa East 1 The government whose ruling party had Mr. Ivanov as its leading member, this government obliged the National Electricity Company to buy out U.S. electricity declared by US corporations at a huge profit, a huge return, with the clear awareness that the National Electricity Company thus went bankrupt. We have never heard Ivan Ivanov object to this policy before. Moreover, he engaged himself as a party member and member of the leadership of this party in all its metamorphoses from the DSD of the DSD of the Blue Coalition, now Reformer Bloc, he undertook to justify the liquidation of the four small reactors that produced electricity at a price of BGN 20. for megawatt hours. To justify it, Mr. Ivanov is committed to a series of delusions and lies. I'd like to point out at least a few of the most vulgar. [[(Noise, lines, and shouts:) (GERB and RB)]] Okay. Firstly, we have heard that small reactors need to be liquidated because of, I quote: Some wolf treaty concluded with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in 1994, which linked the liquidation of these capacities with the membership of the European Union in Bulgaria. Of course, it was a lie because the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is not an institution of the European Union and cannot put conditions for membership on its behalf. Then the Bulgarian people were lied to that the European Commission itself, in the face of Commissioner Verheugen, insisted on it. If you think this contributes to the prestige of a governing person, which was then and until recently was still Ivan Ivanov, then we have different concepts of morality. Obviously, we are also talking about the liberalisation of irony, of course, the morality of the right part of the Bulgarian political spectrum. In his existence of a member of the leadership of this party Mr. Ivanov also undertook other screaming non-scientific ones who discredited his claim of expertise. I'll tell you a few of them. Mr. Ivan Ivanov in a number of press conferences of his then party chief Ivan Kostov and also in the company of Mr. Martin Dimitrov claimed that the renovation of the panel blocks would save as much energy as the two thousands of NPP's Belenes could produce in the 60s of their lives. [[Comments and laughter from GERB and RB.]] In addition, he claimed that the party he was representing advocated that the reactors of the nuclear power plant No, they're not Chernobyl, they're civilian VVR reactors. I would also like to explain the following. I listened very carefully to the concept Ivan Ivanov presented to the Energy Commission. I mean the most important things of her. He said he would give preference to manure-operated power plants. Thus Mr. Ivan Ivanov is about to realize the dream of hydrologist Ahmed Dogan, who said that Bulgaria should produce electricity from cow dung, not from uranium. Moreover, Ivan Ivanov repeated for the last time that Bulgaria had to strengthen the measures to increase energy efficiency because a million and a half Bulgarian households lived in energy-inefficient homes. This is again the old dream of Rosen Plevneliev and of the circle "Capital" for the gesture with the sanitization. How will Mr. Ivan Ivanov help save NEK, which his party went bankrupt through long-term contracts for the purchase of electricity?! Well, he's going to load the two Americans to a hundred percent!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u58	Yes!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u59	This is not a rescue, gentlemen, but an even greater deepening of the liquid crisis in the National Electricity Company! He neglected to specify what he would do after the previous composition of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has already referred to Brussels that long-term contracts with the American Maritsa are a gross violation of the Third Energy Package. He sly avoided answering this question and I now urge him to come out here and say whether the contracts of the Third Energy Package meet or not. He also neglected to say that the SEWRC has the opportunity to make sure that it does not buy the entire amount declared by the American Maritsi. But then NEK is obliged to pay them 400 BGN. For megawatt hours the number that lies hidden. It does not provide for a revision of long-term contracts. Then what will you do, how will you regulate so as to restore public confidence in this Commission, Mr. Ivanov?! We didn't understand. I believe that because of its heavy corporate, in the face of the American "Maricitsi" and party burden Ivan Ivanov cannot be president of a single body, called to be independent and to defend the interest of Bulgarian consumers and Bulgarian national interest. He will be another avatar of Ivan Kostov and nothing more. The Avatar of Foreign Private Monopolys, let me list them:....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We are also strongly opposed to the nomination of Mrs. Svetla Todorova and Mrs. Evgenia Haritonova, as well as Ms. Milena Milotinova, the lawyer, because they were the members of the Commission during the period of the collapse of her public prestige. We changed, this is what the National Assembly amended the Law and made it possible for the members of the Commission to be elected by the National Assembly in one final attempt to save the prestige of this regulator. Well, how are we gonna save him if we bring back the people who contributed to his discreditation? Do you doubt they'll avoid being thrown at by civil society again? We believe that the proposed President, the nominated one.. notice, of the regulator and the majority of the nominated members prove once again a truth spoken by Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz that in neoliberalism the regulator stands out as an appendix, as an orimentary body, because it was pre-invaded by the foreign private monopoly. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u60	- What's the line? There are no lines. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u61	Mrs. Tsacheva, I'm taking the lead procedure. [[Radio.]] I want to tell you, we tried to give you unambiguous signs from our group, as decibels were unbearable. I want to tell you that part of the audience, after hearing the incredible decibels, we have sustained damage or temporary damage to hearing. [[Heckling]] We're not talking about the purely moral damage we've been plagued with, but we're used to it. It is obvious that the previous one had an insuficiency, told the medical... memory loss or lack of gray matter. [[Elevator bell dings]] Because there was a lot of bullshit going on, forgetting a year ago...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u62	Mr. Kasabov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u63	... what they really did and how they voted and how they supported the three coalitions. Slow down...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u64	Mr. Kasabov, you will enter deep waters. You've started well, but in the finals you'll get to the wrong place.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u65	I'm coming out of the deep water and I'm done. I'm coming out of the deep waters and landing on the shore to tell you: lower your decibels. Thank you. [[Radio and applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u66	Thank you. Mr. Kasabov, I understand the signs not only from your group, but also from many of the MPs. I am asking you to get me into the situation. There is no way, in view of the decibels of a particular representative of the National Assembly, we can constantly adjust the sound in this room. Some speak louder, others speak louder. I leave to the understanding of each MP with what tone of force should be spoken in this Chamber. To speak, Mr. Ramadan Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u67	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, for a moment I was in serious error. I thought that the National Assembly would today be at the height that society expects; at that height where the National Assembly will today elect the members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission with the clear awareness that this will be a working body and a body to which today the Members of the National Assembly will pass on from our authority, increasing the credibility and authority of this Commission, based on this choice that we will make. In fact, for a very short time, I thought that those colleagues from the Patriotic Front had come to their senses by listening to some of the speeches from my colleagues, but then I realized that the profanization of this debate would lead to what led the protests at certain times in the past years. Dear colleagues, do we realize what we are doing today? Do we have the clear awareness that we want to present to the public those people who will be responsible for determining the price of the energy service or have come out here to talk out and see who can, controlling a greater rhetoric or a higher tone, with the height of the tone trying as an argument to convince us of their rightness? Fellow Members, every political force has its responsibility and stands behind its constituents when proposing a certain expert in this Commission with the clear awareness that it will defend the public interest. And for these experts we offer, we have a clear understanding that these people, especially Mr Remzi Osman, who has been dealing with law enforcement for the past years, that there is no way for a lawyer in this Commission, who has spent 20 years law-making in the field of regional development and water supply, including from 2003 a member of the Sofia Bar, to worry that it will not be able to do its job. I am convinced that all other colleagues from the other political forces who have offered us experts also stand behind their capacity as experts, even why not as politicians? Therefore, honourable Members, Mrs. Tsacheva, I suggest we get to the point. For the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, we tried and did our best to listen to all the results. I believe these candidates have presented themselves with dignity. I have no comment on any of them. And I suggest, if we are going to try to humiliate these candidates and thus bring down the authority of this Commission and then look for a reason why the price of electricity is not what society expected, try still humiliating them and making them what they are not. However, if we want to stand behind these colleagues, which we will choose today and subsequently bear responsibility as a National Assembly, because until now we have believed that the executive power is the figure or institution that intervenes directly in the work of this Commission. But if today we MPs do not realise our duty, our responsibility, this Commission cannot work further. I call on you to be at the height of which the public awaits and thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u68	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. - What's the line? First line, Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u69	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Atalay, I didn't allow myself to make any accusation about Mr. Osman's qualifications first. The second in my line is that I disagree with your suggestion that actually reduces the level of debate, and that is that if it is not Mr. Osman in the Commission, the price of electricity will increase. Elementary, Watson. Not like that. It's not like that. Either we hold some level today, after we declare that we will strive to avoid political bias, or we will not. After you declared it, you set a bad example for us yourself. My proposal for Mrs Milanova's choice is dictated only by pragmatic considerations. No matter how good a lawyer Mr. Osman may be, it'll take him some time to get into this matter that he's definitely not familiar with. I didn't say anything new. I asked him the same question. So you judge and vote on your conscience: should we lose a few months while this lawyer, who will participate in the two compositions of the KEWRC, enters and acquire the level that is necessary, or choose the person who has done this so far, and has done it well? But that's for you to decide. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u70	Second line? A hole, Mr. Atalay? You won't use it. Mr. Slavov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u71	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I join the call from this tribune to speak truths and to observe a good tone. But in the name of punctuality and correctness, I am obliged to say, because I see that there are MPs who clearly do not understand the statement of this tribune, although the Constitution provides that there is no criminal responsibility, it is borne. So let's be clear about those among us who think they have immunity against everyone and everything and they can say whatever they want. Again for the sake of accuracy to say that Mrs. Milena Milotinova is not a candidate for a member of the KEWRC She is a famous Bulgarian journalist, as we know, and is not present here among the candidates. It's Milena Milanova. Because I saw that some of the colleagues began to look around, when this was heard in the Chamber, I was obliged to clarify it too. On some insinuations that have been made here, especially with regard to the candidate for President Mr. Ivan Ivanov, whom I have also known for many years, I am obliged to say the following. First of all, in terms of political affiliation, colleagues, it is a man of what he does and what activity he does. We all remember very well that Mr. Ivanov in the last elections was not even a candidate for the National Assembly and did not participate in them. On the contrary, he had dedicated himself to his scientific work and his work. So the speculation about me is absolutely bald. Most people, not to say everyone in this room, even those who are currently not members of a political party, have probably once been members of their lives. I hope that's not a reproach in some people's eyes. The other thing I understand is that both BSP and their previous coalition partners, known as the Golden Finger, who chose Oresharski, have no nominations for chairman, but this does not prevent them from criticising the proposed candidacy with all their strength, although they do not offer their own. This approach, as my colleague Dimitrov said, I also do not understand it. If they think there's a better and better candidate, they should have suggested it. You just shouldn't slander and say the wrong thing. In fact, I think I know what's bothering the people of this coalition, known as the Golden Finger, even seeing that some of them are sitting together right now. What bothers them, I suppose, is precisely the commitment of Mr. Ivanov KEWRC to be an expressor of the public interest now? not to be a simple satellite of government, but to really protect the public interest through transparent policy. Here I am using to tell you that Mr. Ivanov last year was awarded by the Programme "Access to information" about his activities on the revelations of the South Stream scheme. He received the most authentic award of this organization, and it was precisely for the efforts and work he put in to make it clear many facts and circumstances that we subsequently heard in this Chamber and personally from the Prime Minister that it was about a scheme which was practically never conceived in the interests of the Bulgarian state, but in a completely other foreign interest. All these facts and circumstances about me are talking about us supporting his candidacy. One more thing I have noted about this speculation about the so-called "Mariets." Dear colleagues, it is not the SEWRC in its previous composition that has been activated to signal the European Commission about the brands.Maybe the ladies and gentlemen on the left can explain what they did during the Oresharski mandate. On the contrary, the European Commission has approached us and warned us that there will be a criminal procedure if these contracts are not renegotiated. Here my question is: what have they been doing for a full term and how long have they not done anything? While within this governance, one of the first things we did from the Reformation bloc was to ask a parliamentary question: is there really such a question by the European Commission and what is done with it to protect the national interest, including can it be used to renegotiate these long-term treaties? Many false things, many lies have been told by this tribune. Let's stick to the facts and talk to facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u72	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Lutvi Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Perhaps the most important focus of the debates today on the election of the members of the Energy and Water Regulator Commission should be placed precisely on the answer to the question: what had to change the regime of choice of the regulator from the regime of appointment of the members of the Council of Ministers, from the government to the regime of their direct election by the National Assembly? I think this decision was strategically correct, because when a regulator, which, by definition, should be independent, by law, the fact of the direct appointment of the authority by the Council of Ministers raises an objective doubt as to whether it is possible for the regulator to be independent in this situation. I believe that these debates should not be poisoned with unnecessary doubts. For example, we from the DPS Parliamentary Group would have last expressed considerations against the Commission President-designate by the Reformation Block Mr. Ivan Ivanov. This is a man with clear political identification, for many years he was a Member of Parliament from the Blue Coalition, DSB, previously from the ODS, but undoubtedly a proven expert, a specialist in energy-related legislation. The meaning of the amendment to the Law, the idea of guaranteeing the independence of the body does not necessarily relate to the offering of candidates sterile from political bias. It's an unnatural state. Every Bulgarian citizen, even those who hold positions depoliticized within the meaning of the Law, probably have their political bias. The question is, after their election as members of this body, that they now apply one to one Law to win, if necessary, and willfully their political bias. I believe that Mr Remzi Osman, nominated by the DPS, has proved that he has this will and I am sure that by his election he will now work in this Commission only in view of the obligations that will be imposed on him by the Law! I will therefore ask from now on that the debates do not slide along the profile of the candidates in terms of their political biography, because in this way we are participating in the process of turning politics and politicians almost into dirty words. We have no right to such a nihilism. And I think the problem with the final solution is related to the political profile of Mr. Ivanov or Mr. Remzi Osman. It is a curious thing for us not to find that, in the final composition of this Commission, two or three parties from the ruling majority have taken over two thirds of the composition. That would already be a problem, and in this sense I appeal to the ruling majority parties to really have a sense of measure, because if this measure is jumped, it will not be angry with the opposition or the Bulgarian society if it talks about overeating with power again. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u74	Any lines to Mr. Mestan? I won't. Mr. Velizar Enchev has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u75	Madam President, colleagues! I think the procedure wasn't good. The candidates for members of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission should not be standing on the balcony, on the top left, but here, between us in the Chamber, because if we want to ask them questions [[GERB lines]] If we want to ask them questions, they might be able to answer them, but that's already...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u76	There's no such thing as a procedure. I read it explicitly before the point began.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u77	I'm saying my reasons. As a member of the Energy and Water Regulation Commission, I intend to support the names of Mr. Elenko Bozhkov from BSP, Mr. Ilian Iliev from BSP, and Mr. Boyan Ivanov Boev, proposed by the Bulgarian Democratic Center, because, please, listen to my arguments, because as members of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission during the management of the Oresharski cabinet, to which we can and should have a lot of remarks, but we cannot have a remark to one That is enough to give you your vote for these candidates, not to take into account your party biases, some of which are openly lobbyists. I also believe that the Commission for Control of the Work of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission should provide a report assessing the work of the candidates from GERB Svetla Todorova, Evgenia Haritonova, Ilian Iliev and Milena Milanova in order to know what we are giving for their previous work. It should also be accepted the proposal of the energy expert Mr. Ivan Hinoski, engineer Hinoski, who proposed that all candidates for members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission sign a declaration of no conflict of interest. And one last question that I would like to ask to Mrs. Evgenia Haritonova and Mrs. Svetla Petrova Todorova, and this is the following: you, if you become members of the Commission, will you begin a procedure for withdrawing the licenses of electricity and electricity distribution companies after the two killer audits of 2010 and 2013 which, honourable Members, if you have forgotten, have found 2690 violations and losses of 800 million. lv. because of the wrongful use of money by these companies? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u78	I recall the rules of procedure adopted by decision of the National Assembly, promulgated in the Official Journal. Questions to candidates have been procedurally given the opportunity to be asked to the Commission at their hearing. Under the procedure for the election of President and Members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission by the National Assembly, that is, this procedure, which is currently under way, is not possible for the candidates to answer on issues that are constantly asked by the parliamentary platform. Any lines to Mr. Enchev? I won't. For speech "Valtan Nikolov."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, honourable candidates for the Commission! Yes, we have indeed been presented with a list of proposals behind which are MPs from various parliamentary groups. Do you think there are quotas? There is no principle in the Energy Act to have quotas for relevant parties represented in parliament, but it is clear to everyone that the party groups will try to stand behind a candidate who is represented by their MP. Is that right? In my opinion, it is absolutely right that first, because it will be known that there will be no dominance of a party in this so important Commission. Secondly, there will be no backstage which, for example, is raised through some civil organisation, as we have seen before in various parliaments, but there is actually some agreement behind them between certain political forces. Here it's clear who's going to be behind this particular candidate, which means there's no behind-the-scenes. It is clear that some candidate is represented by this political power. Well, of course, in some parties, perhaps with more candidates, there are internal struggles who stands behind whom, but this is a matter of their views and organization. A political party GERB stood behind two candidates precisely because of the fact that it is not accused that it is somehow trying to seize the Commission's functions, influence it, influence its decisions and so on. And I think that this is fair behaviour precisely because we will not have a dominant quota, as we have, for example, represented in the National Assembly with the most MPs, that is, we do not take advantage of having a larger quota, precisely because we believe that this Commission must make very important decisions and these decisions directly influence households, directly affect business, directly influence social peace. Because we have talked here about different options and political, how to say, biases in relation to specific decisions from the past, we are talking about "Belene" we are talking about "yes," the first four blocks of NPP "Kozloduy" and we are talking about the VI block, for example, in the NPP "Kozloduy," we are talking about TPP "Maritsa East 1" and TPP "Maritsa East 3." In fact, could the SEWRC influence these decisions? For the first four blocks of the NPP, Kozloduy is definitely not capable, unfortunately, and it is not up to the Commission. Regarding Belene, if it is to be built, the decision must pass through the National Assembly, because there is already such a solution, which actually ended the project. If the VI block is to be built, the decision must pass through the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Commission has no influence on them, but it may have an impact on the prices of TPP Maritsa East 1s and TPP Maritsa East 3s and provoke or assist the process. I agree here. Can Mr. Ivanov make that decision himself? Of course not, he's the first among equals because the commissioners have their own opinions. It is here that the importance and balance that different forces will have different people in the Commission who will make their independent decision. Why is it independent? It is in the Energy Act, through the mandate we are giving, that we think that we are achieving this independence that applicants are not under the burden of being able to be replaced, that they can be called, but that they will be able to make their independent decisions. By the way, when I was in Germany talking to Bundestag people and asking them how the judges were appointed to them, they said they were offered by the Minister of Justice. I was very surprised by that. How can the Minister of Justice offer people and then be independent?! He said, "Yes, their mandate makes them independent. But our thinking is that as someone is proposed by a particular political force, he is infinitely, infinitely dependent on it. I don't think so. It is the mandate that guarantees their independence that the National Assembly is trying. Due to the fact that no political force has the dominant in this Commission, we achieve a good balance and balance of experts. Of all those who have been proposed as candidates, I cannot say against anyone that he does not have the right to either professionally or through what he has put forward to the Energy Commission not to enter this Commission. On the contrary, I think they all deserve, but this is where the so-called quotas come in. I would say that standing with the face of every political party behind their candidates, achieving this balance and seeking professionalism in the Commission's decisions. I propose that we all unite around the people behind us and wait for this Commission to restore the confidence of the citizens, which so far has been lacking in each of the committees that have been in charge so far. That is, this independence to increase citizens' confidence in the Commission's decisions. I wish good luck to all who will fall into it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u80	Any lines to Mr. Nikolov? I won't. Any other MPs wishing to participate in the debate? Mr. Bojinov, but this will happen after the break. Fifteen-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u81	I ask the Members of the National Assembly to take their seats. The word for speech is Mr. Bojinov. Mr. Bojinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u82	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear candidates for Commissioners! I listened to the many-hour debate and heard all twenty candidates for Commissioners. I have told them and I will repeat to you that the expertise of each one of them and of the twenty people put together is respectful and it is difficult for a person to take attitude and give any differentiated assessment of who is the most and most expert in this wide range of areas. However, the question we need to resolve today is: which of these 20 Bulgarian experts can and have the qualities to become statesmen besides experts? Expertity is a necessary condition, but the other thing I mention requires more than competence and experience and personal qualities. I was impressed by the quoted statement of one of the candidates that, according to a foreign source, regulation is an art. Art certainly requires talent, and regulation, if it is art, apart from talent, requires character. The character leads us to the personality, and the personality of the candidates is a condition for the independence of this body, which is extremely important. That is exactly what, Mr. Mestan, has imposed on you what has imposed a change of the Law and the way this body is elected to pass the responsibility of the government to parliament, to make an assessment and to place confidence in the people who will become statesmen of this high rank. I answer why our parliamentary group did not raise its candidate for president, but we raised six people whose expertise and qualities are obvious. Here the task of the parties that raise candidates and especially the chairman is to make sure that their candidate can move from one to the other orbit, and is not placed and offered in this place to protect the narrow party or electoral interests of those who propose it. Mr. Dimitrov, we have such candidates. The person you pointed out will serve with the slang is a high ball both in the field of energy and in the field of economics. Firstly, he would not accept and, secondly, we would not raise him because we doubt the objectivity of his assessment and his support from the majority for the President of this Commission. I'm going to say a few words about the candidate being offered. Let it not sound strange, but Ivan Ivanov and I in all the years after the transition have been to the two political poles. In making a lot of management decisions, we've been diametrically opposite. Today's remarks of a political and other nature, which were put to it, will not comment. However, I cannot help but admit that his behaviour during a hearing and from our joint work gives me reason to argue that Ivan Ivanov has expertise, experience and the most important thing that I have found in his behaviour is that he is willing to outbid and break with his party biases and political decisions and moves, and that he is committed to being a worthy head of this Commission. Mr. Ivanov, I want to burden you with my expectations that you will become from a final party functionary, a statesman from now on, and I personally, despite the notes that have been made, will support you for the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! To answer which of these experts satisfy the condition I have set, I asked a group of them a question; I asked the candidates who have been members or expert commissioners or experts in the SEWRC and are currently in the Commission. The question was this: As members of the SEWRC, are they aware of the blatant actions of the electricity distribution companies? I've asked them to answer me with or without. If the answer is not, there is nothing to comment on if the answer is yes, as future commissioners, are they ready to categorically deny these reprehensible actions?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u83	The procedure doesn't allow questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u84	Please do not replicate the speeches of the Members of the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u85	I'm forwarding the hearing to those people that you haven't had a chance to hear, and how I've formed my attitude. To the question: are reproachable actions known to me in the content of this concept I bring from wrongdoing to other unacceptable actions. I have to inform the House that the first person wanted to respond to the candidate for President Ivan Ivanov without being a member. His answer pleases me. In a nutshell, he said: "I have not been and I do not know, but if I encounter such actions from now on or have been informed of past such actions not only on the ERPs, I will strongly object. Worthy, in my opinion, a reply was given by Mrs. Milena Zhivkova Milanova. Although he was a little thrifty, the answer was adamant. An extremely convincing answer was given to me by Mr. Elenko Bozhkov, Mr. Ilian Iliev, Mr. Boyan Ivanov Boev. They all didn't save...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u86	To extend the time...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u87	We're extending the time. They didn't save any of those two thousand comments from the security services.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u88	Guide yourself to completion. Your colleagues are willing to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u89	Therefore, I will support all those who have given dignified answers and will call on Mrs. Svetla Todorova herself to withdraw her candidacy, as her response is that once she has been a member and president of the Commission, she does not know such facts and even if she is aware of them, she accepts them as natural...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u90	Mr. Bojinov, even if he withdraws, we'll still vote. There is a report from the Commission. Please, your colleagues are working hard!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u91	Do not deprive her of the opportunity to do this dignified behavior, because you cannot say that she accepts these actions as an effort for a commercial entity to win. Thank you, Madam President. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u92	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs for a statement? Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I will begin that in just five days the 99th anniversary of the birth of the great Bulgarian Social Democrat, the patriarch of the contemporary Bulgarian Social Democrats, the great statesman Dr. Peter Dertliev. He said, "Let's rule with the talent of the whole people." That is why we from BSP left Bulgaria have proposed four people in the field of energy for Commission candidates and two people for water supply. They're all decent people. Of course, I appeal to you because you said in one of the previous statements that, you see, the left had no candidates. No, there are candidates, and they're worthy. Support the people in the energy sector! At least one of the people in the energy of our proposals to be supported because they have proved it in time. I won't dwell on the other candidates. I will only refer to Elenko Bozhkov. [[IN ENGLISH]] not because it is political and not because it is Vice-President of us, the Bulgarian Social Democrats, but because it is a decent person. Here, one small technical error and one omission were admitted to the motives. First of all, eng. Elenko Bozhkov has been in the energy system since 1977. I'm not gonna list where he worked. I'm just gonna tell you the international confession he has. Elenko Bozhkov is a consultant of the European Development Bank; Elenko Bozhkov is a consultant of the European Investment Bank; Elenko Bozhkov is a member of the World Forum to combat climate change problems in the world, which, by the way, are under the auspices of the Presidents of the United States, Russia, China, India, Japan and so on. So once again, I turn to you: think when you choose, for this is the man. They said wrong on the right side. This is the man of origin who asked for a price hike, a review of the treaties before the European Commission. Finally, I finish once again with Dr. Dertliev's words: Think about it when you vote to be with the talent of the entire people. Thank you. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u94	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u95	Madam President, honourable Members, today is indeed an important day for the Bulgarian energy sector, because for the first time people's representation will elect the members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. It is natural for the ruling in a coalition to have more representatives in this Commission, and this requires the laws of parliamentaryism. It can't be any other way. We were really hoping that what was expressed as a concern would not be dominated by the ruling majority, but would most likely happen. You'll see we'll probably be six to three or something. It doesn't matter. I came out here to tell you two things. The first is that you have the right to appoint members of the Commission, but do not relieve you of the responsibility for their actions afterwards. For you have offered them, and you will be in charge of them, and you cannot wash your hands afterwards, if you do not give yourself, God, things do not go the way they should go. The second thing I would like to say to you is that we, as an opposition party, may not be able to persuade you to vote for those who really deserve and are worthy to be members of this Commission, but as members of the Energy Commission, as members of the Commission to monitor the work of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, promise you and all Bulgarian citizens that we will be a firm of their interest and we will not allow unprincipled decisions that are harmful to consumers, to the harm of the economy, to the detriment of Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u96	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u97	Madam President, honourable Members! We are on our way to finishing something that started in the Forty-first National Assembly today, a change in the regulator that we have been trying to accept and impose since more than two years ago. Such a bill was in the Forty-first National Assembly, tabled on behalf of MPs. Then the same Bill because of the early termination of the activities of the National Assembly failed to be adopted. At the 40th National Assembly, we launched the same initiative, I and my fellow Members of the National Assembly submitted almost the same bill. In the Forty-third National Assembly he was submitted by the office, in fact from the first days of the second cabinet Borisov. We passed the nomination procedure, and we had the debates in plenary. The aim of this change is to ensure, first of all, the independence of this regulator, because in the years we have seen different governments choose one-sided and only from the ruling party all commissioners in this body and have often interfered with the authority's policy, including guidelines on whether or not the price should be reduced. This is extremely harmful and proved over time because today we are witnessing a deficit in energy of more than 650 million. lv. on an annual basis, which thanks to the efforts of all my fellow Members, for which I thank you, because the bill for amending and supplementing the Energy Act was supported by almost all MPs, we managed to shrink this deficit by half, we managed to shrink it by more than 350 million. The Commission still has a lot of work to do so as to make the companies' activities more efficient, reduce energy costs, so that the end-users of this electricity do not have to pay the bill again. It is therefore extremely important that this body is an extra party. We cannot talk here about allocation of quotas or parcelling of the regulator, because this regulator must be chosen by as many parties as possible in the plenary. We have a proposal from almost all parliamentary groups. We from GERB will support candidates from all parliamentary groups who have proposed such candidates. We have only given two proposals for the regulator, not because we have no more experts, we could have given 10 and 15 proposals, but then we would have left the opposition with the impression that we are almost trying to have a decisive quota in the regulator. No, on the contrary, whether we are only two proposals for this Commission to really be elected by the entire National Assembly, not to be subject to any government, to make professional decisions in the interests of the Bulgarian society and the Bulgarian business. I am also extremely pleased with the debate I heard in plenary. There was talk, with very few exceptions, of the qualities of the candidates. It has been said that all 20 proposed candidates have qualities to be members of this Commission, and that is indeed true. We held more than five hours of a hearing at the Energy Commission on Tuesday. The candidates presented their concepts within 15 minutes and the candidates within 5 minutes. We were able to ask our questions to them. We have received competent and comprehensive answers to these questions, which gives me confidence that this Commission, except that it will be out-of-party, except that it will not be subject to any government, it will also be sufficiently expert and will take the right decisions for the development of energy in Bulgaria. In addition to the independence of the Commission and its election by the National Assembly, the next step we are about to take and it is no less important that we in the National Assembly ensure that this Commission has financial independence. You know that this cannot happen within the framework of the State Budget Act and the Constitution, if the Commission determines this budget on its own, but you also know that we Members of the National Assembly have the right to amend the Commission's budget when it is adopted between first and second readings if we consider that it does not meet the Commission's needs and that we have done so several times. I will give you just one example with the adoption of the budget of the Financial Supervision Commission 2009 and 2010. I thank my fellow Members from all parliamentary groups for their constructive attitude. I am glad that we are finishing a long-standing initiative in the Forty-First National Assembly. I wish the candidates and the President, who are elected within today, success! We hope for their professionalism, we hope that they will not allow interference of anyone in their work and will make decisions in the interests of Bulgarian society and Bulgarian business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u98	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. - What's the line? First line, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u99	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Dobrev, I take this opportunity to remind you, since you said that until now the government has interfered with the work of the regulator. The only proof of this is February 2013 when the protests of the Bulgarian citizens in Northwestern Bulgaria and in Sofia started on 4 February. Then Prime Minister Boyko Borisov made an attempt to control the situation and announced that he would propose to the state regulator to reduce the price of electricity by 8% and take away CEZ's license. This did not appease the citizens and later came to the resignation of the government of Boyko Borisov and, pay attention, he transferred all the blame on those who signed the contracts and the contracts with the ERPs and his guilt only saw in the appointment of Angel Semerdzhiev at the time President of the SEWRC [[the President signals that time has run out]] which was proposed by Traycho Traykov, long-lost minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u100	Mr. Yankov, your parliamentary group is running out of time. Thank you for your historical flashback. There's no second line. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u101	I hesitated whether to make a duplicate because it seems to me that this is not the most appropriate conclusion to this debate, if indeed the debate is towards its conclusion. I think you are misquoting the words and I ask you next time to use the correct quotes because it was then about asking the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to seek reserves so that the price of electricity could be more bearable in Bulgaria. Something that we want at the moment from the new regulator to seek reserves so as to reduce the costs of companies, increase their efficiency so that the negative effects of price increases are not transferred to an ineffective system on end-users. If I go in your language, I don't want to, but I can give you an exact quote for an interview...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u102	As long as it's on the subject of the debates today, not historically.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u103	...of Prime Minister Oresharski in bTV, in which he felt that the current would drop by 5% and the next day he was falling by exactly 5%. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u104	Any other MPs? Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Sorry, fellow Members, I understand your fatigue, but I won't bore you. Here in the Chamber today, too many things were said that could be intercepted and replicated. However, I would really like to call on you to be at the level of the state's supreme authority. I allow myself to take the floor to say just a few sentences because I have known Ivan Ivanov for many years. I'm not going into a debate with the bullshit that was spoken to at his address. I want you to know, as the National Assembly elects this body to have a greater guarantee of its independence, that Ivan Ivanov is a person who can hear anyone but always make his decisions on internal conviction. You know this thing from now on, because we're gonna be working together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u106	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Chukolov wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u107	Madam President, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party, I would like a 30-minute break. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u108	In your opinion, Mr. Chukolov, has there expired an hour after the break? [[Loud noise and lines.]] As long as we figure out how long it's been, 15 minutes off. [[Noise and lines.]] (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u109	The hearing is ongoing. Are there any other MPs who wish to take part in the debate? [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] What procedure? [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev.]] There is no way you can make a vote procedure because your parliamentary group is running out of time. You keep doing it. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] Do the procedure, but if the content of the procedure is not exactly in the manner of conducting it, it cannot be admitted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u110	Honourable Members, we very much wanted to do a voting procedure, but since you are not giving us the opportunity, it will be in the manner of conducting it. You won't allow us, Madam President, to do something that we think is important to the future... [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Colleagues, we're just prolonging the agony against each other. [[Noise and excitement.]] You are not allowing us to do something that we think is important at the moment, and this is what we have gathered as a parliamentary group, and we have decided that the colleagues we are proposing are professionals and worthy enough people to bring them to the humiliation of a predestined choice, so we have decided to withdraw them. That was what I wanted to do as a voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u111	And who are you who made the decision?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u112	As a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u113	You speak on behalf of the parliamentary group's leadership?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u114	Yeah. And an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u115	Look how many importers there are.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u116	It's consistent with them, if you want any of them to come out and say it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u117	It's for the best. [[Noise and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u118	The way you're holding it, Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u119	Madam President, honourable Members! Madam President, you will consider whether this is an admissible proposal in the manner of conduct and whether it is at all admissible under the Rules of the National Assembly and the rules that we have adopted. However, it seems to me that the motives of colleagues are not sincere about their withdrawal. They withdraw them because they are a big coalition, as far as I have information, every party from their coalition has suggested someone and now there is no way for everyone from the coalition to be satisfied. This, my fellow Members, is not a serious attitude. I'm sorry. That's what you're trying to blow the procedure in general. Thank you. [[Applause on the right side of the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u120	Colleagues, two considerations on which I believe that such withdrawal is inadmissible. My first point is that the procedural rules, which I have several times to recall today, citing our promulgated decision in the Official Gazette, do not provide for such an opportunity. My second point is that the time available to the Parliamentary Group of the Left to make such a request is over, you do not have such an opportunity. Mr. Ermenkov, in violation of our Rules of Procedure, requested a procedure in the manner of conduct, this procedure did not enter into the general time available to the parliamentary groups, but essentially it did not cover the content of what he set out. We have projects for a solution. They will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u121	A statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u122	A statement? What will you say when your group doesn't have time? Debates closed. Let's move on to the vote. Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In order to settle some energy passions and make the best choice, I suggest to your attention a procedure for extending the period between first and second reading under the Law for amendment and supplement of the Health Insurance Act by another seven days, on the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of our Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u124	A reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on Mrs Daritkova's procedure for extending the time for proposals between first and second readings. Vote 188 MPs: 184, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. According to T. 4 of the Rules, the National Assembly elects separately the Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, four members with experience in the field of energy, two members with experience in the field of water supply and sewerage, one lawyer and one economist. The draft decision contained in the Commission report on the election of the President of the Commission states: Project! DECISION on the election of the President of the The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 11, para. Art. 2 and 3 in conjunction with art. 12, para. 1, t. 2 (e) of the Energy Act HAS DECIDED He elected Ivan Nikolaev Ivanov as Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Voting mode. Vote 157 MPs: 142, against 10, abstention 5. Mr. Ivan Nikolaev Ivanov was elected Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. [[Applause from GERB.]] We move on to the selection of four members with experience in the field of energy. In alphabetical order, as presented in the report, the draft decision by the Commission, I read the draft decision in general, then I will put the candidates to the vote, i.e. I will announce only the operative part without repeating the reasons. Project! DECISION appointing a Member of the Commission for Energy and water regulation The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 11, para. Art. 2 and 3 in conjunction with art. 12, para. 1, t. 2 (a) (b) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) HAS DECIDED He elected Alexander Yanakiev Yordanov as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. We vote! They voted 146 MPs: 129 against 9, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB.]] Guys, take your time with the applause. There are many applications, then, according to the procedure, those who have received the most votes, they will be declared elected. The next draft decision to elect a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is on the same basis. The proposal is the National Assembly to I'm sorry. I'm He elected Boyan Ivanov Boev as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. We vote! They voted 141 MPs: 25, against 31, abstention 85. The offer is not accepted. The next draft decision to elect a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is on the same legal basis. The National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Valentin Georgiev Terziyski as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. We vote! Vote 166 MPs: 49, against 45, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. Next, a draft decision to elect Vladko Genchov as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. We vote! They voted 142 MPs: 123 against 11, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. The next decision is to elect a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission of Mr. Georgi Tonev Zlatev. We vote. Vote 173 MPs: 153 against 11, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Next, a decision to elect Mrs. Evgenia Hristova Haritonova as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. We are voting on Mrs. Haritonova's candidacy. Vote 176 MPs: 167, against 8, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Next, a draft decision to elect Mrs. Elena Dimitrova Marinova as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. We vote on Mrs. Elena Marinova's candidacy. Vote 138 MPs: 17 against 33, abstention 88. The offer is not accepted. Next, a draft decision for the election of Mr. Elenko Ljubomirov Bozhkov as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. We vote. They voted 145 MPs: 26, against 68, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. Next, a draft decision to elect Mr. Ilian Hristov Iliev as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. We are voting for Mr. Ilian Hristov Iliev. They voted 139 MPs: 10, against 57, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. Next, a draft decision to elect Mr. Lyubomir Andreev Denchev as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. We are voting on Mr. Lyubomir Denchev's candidacy. 140 MPs voted: 8 against 53, abstention 79. The offer is not accepted. Next, a draft decision to elect Mr. Petko Dimitrov Mihailov as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. We vote for Mr. Mikhailov. They voted 133 MPs: 26, against 21, abstention 86. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on a draft decision to elect Mr. Slavcho Georgiev Smilkov as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. They voted 135 MPs: 30, against 11, abstention 94. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is for Mr. Valentin Dimitrov Petkov to be a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. There's already a change of ground here. To date, the projects for a decision have been of the same reason, namely art. 11, para. Art. 2 and 3 in conjunction with art. 12, para. 1, t. 2 (a) (b) of the Energy Act. These are the energies in the narrow sense of the word. I will now propose a draft decision to elect a Member of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory, it is about the water supply part. The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 11, para. Art. 2 and 3 in conjunction with art. 12, para. 1, t. 2 (b) of the Energy Act HAS DECIDED Mr. Valentin Dimitrov Petkov is elected member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. We vote. Vote 146 MPs: 136 against 9, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. On the same basis of the letter "b", i.e. in the part concerning the water supply, proposal for Mr. Dimitar Georgiev Kochkov. It shall be proposed as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Vote 177 MPs: 159 against 1, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. The next application is on the same basis as under the letter "b" "selected Petar Dimitrov Boyadzhiev as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. We vote. They voted 137 MPs: 17 against 39, abstention 81. The offer is not accepted. The next draft decision is to elect a member of the Energy and Water Regulator Commission. The National Assembly, on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8, Art. 8. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 11, para. Art. 2 and 3 in conjunction with art. 12, para. 1, t. 2 (b) of the Energy Act HAS DECIDED Elena Dimitrova Marinova is elected member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Cancel the vote. Mr. Dobrev, there's something wrong with the names here. According to the letter...............................Project for a decision that is not respected for Mrs. Elena Dimitrova Marinova. It is now available under the letter "Select Elena Dimitrova Marinova" as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Was she involved on two grounds?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u125	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u126	So she is entitled to all four in terms of energy and in terms of a legal basis. Got it. I put to the vote the proposal to elect Mrs. Elena Dimitrova Marinova as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission with the basis of the letter "in" as a lawyer. They voted 131 MPs: 11 against 25, abstention 95. The offer is not accepted. On the same basis, we are voting in the lawyers' quota for Mrs. Milena Zhivkova Milanova as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. We vote. Vote 128 MPs: 31, against 23, abstention 74. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal for the election of Mr Remzi Dormush Osman as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Vote 159 MPs: 128 against 28, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We are changing the basis of two requests for the election of an economist in the Commission. "Project" DECISION on the election of a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 11, para. Art. 2 and 3 in conjunction with art. 12, para. 1, t. 2 (d) of the Energy Act HAS DECIDED He elected Rumyana Krasteva as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. We vote. They voted 127 MPs: 24, against 24, abstention 79. The offer is not accepted. And the latest Project for a decision under the letter... for the election of Mrs. Svetla Petrova Todorova as a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. We vote. Vote 159 MPs: 150 against 7, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members, since Parliament's leadership also acts as an election committee at the moment, a minute only to summarize the results of the vote. The results of the vote shall be as follows: President-elect Ivan Nikolaev Ivanov, with 142 votes. [[Applause.]] Four Energetics, according to the number of votes for the vote: Mrs. Evgenia Haritonova - 167 votes [[Applause]] Mr. Georgi Zlatev, 153 votes [[Applause]] Mr. Alexander Yordanov, 129 votes, Mr. Vladko Vladimirov, 123 votes. Sector "Vove" elected: Dimitar Kochkov 159 votes, Valentin Petkov 136 votes. Lawyer: Remzi Osman - 128 votes. [[Applause.]] Economist: Svetla Todorova 150 votes. [[Applause.]] Next is the taking of an oath. I ask the elected President and Members of the Commission to enter the plenary for taking an oath, which means the Members of the National Assembly on the ground. [[Happy tidings.]] Colleagues, I suggest that, until the newly elected President and Members arrive, we move on to the next point, which is short: PROJECT FOR A DECISION WITH REGARD TO THE VALENTIAN VACATION OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING FOR 2015 A proposal came from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Atanas Atanasov, Valeri Simeonov and Borislav Borisov. In accordance with art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The National Assembly is on vacation 10 days on the Easter holidays. Since this holiday is on a different date each year, no specific dates for the Easter Parliamentary Holiday are recorded in the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. According to parliamentary practice, the National Assembly shall each year determine by decision the specific days for the vacation. In view of the following, the four MPs from four parliamentary groups propose that the National Assembly adopt a decision to determine the days of the Easter Holiday of the National Assembly for 2015. .. 10 to 19 April inclusive. The draft decision states: ? RESPONSIBILITY? in relation to the Easter Holiday The National Assembly 2015 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED The Easter Holiday of the National Assembly for 2015 is from 10 to 19 April 2015, including. Are there any speeches? I won't. Debates closed. We vote. Vote 127 MPs: 125 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. [[Reply from the National Representative Velizar Enchev.]] Negative vote please, Mr. Enchev. [[Noise, lines and applause from the right.]] Please, colleagues, everyone has the right to take an attitude. Negative vote, I can't help but give him the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u127	In the last ten years as a journalist, I have always spoken against these long vacations of the MPs. And since I cannot betray my principles and beliefs, I would like to state that what we voted on is, of course, by the Rules of the National Assembly and I cannot challenge it, as the Rules allow you to vote on this, but obviously the Rules of the National Assembly must change, honourable Members, and we must be adequate to the situation of the Bulgarian people. Regular Bulgarian citizens cannot rest for four days with the weekends, and we can do exactly twice as much! If you have morals, you will accept my proposal for amendments to the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly! No Bulgarian doctor, Bulgarian teacher, public servant can rest for four days and you can rest three times more! And all of you who are shouting against me are shouting against the vast majority of the Bulgarian people who think like me! [[Lowered noise, lines and shouts: "Eee!" from the center and from the right.]] Six million Bulgarians think like me, and here you vote for your own vacation! With what are you more than one Bulgarian doctor, teacher, worker, civil servant, army officer?! What's more?! Who are you to vote three times your vacation?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u128	Mr. Enchev, don't fight, but don't fight.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u129	I repeat once again, I purely legally accept that what you voted for is Lege Artis, as the Rules of the National Assembly allow you to vote on this. But it's an immoral vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u130	Why didn't you submit an amendment?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u131	I voted against...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u132	Why didn't you make an amendment?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u133	I'll introduce an amendment already stated, Mrs. Tsacheva. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Once again, I warn you all your cries and cries against this behavior is speaking against the vast majority of the Bulgarian people who disagree with this discrimination! Regular Bulgarian citizens rest for four days and we rest for 12 days!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u134	Your time is up, thank you. [[Lowered noise and lines in the hall.]] Colleagues, we'll continue. [[Heckling]] I'll give you an opportunity for the procedure, but we're in oath mode because we haven't exhausted the previous point. Please come in, the President and the Members. Please repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u135	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u136	Congratulations, everyone! Mr. Kasabov, now you have the opportunity for a procedure. [[Strong noise and lines, the new members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission accept congratulations from the Members of the National Assembly.]] Colleagues, the meeting is on! Please, congratulations on the towers. The hearing is continuing! We're listening, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u137	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor for a procedure of conduct, because I cannot accept in a negative vote a man who patheticly, obnoxiously edifying himself when he himself voted on these same rules and this same vacation, provided that the same person changed to his voters who voted for SKAT TV. Skat TV apologizes for the huge betrayal that this man has committed. [[Applause from the Patriotic Front, calls: "Bravo! "]] Usually in Bulgaria traitors are very few and it is not true that the Bulgarian is a traitor, but here and there are cucumber scavengers who always and in every way justify their name... [[Noise and lines, applause from the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u138	Please don't make me punish you for the vocabulary you practice.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u139	I'm done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u140	We're not on TV, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u141	I understand this guy's pathetic sycophantic hysteria, but I think the money he might be expecting to get is going somewhere else! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u142	Moving on to the next point in our program: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR THE CONVESTATION OF INNOVATION. Colleagues, the report is short. Let's hear it. A very important report by the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. I ask a Commissioner to brief us on the report. Mr. Kanev is absent. Here you are, Mrs. Karastoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u143	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on an amendment bill of the Investment Promotion Act, No 502-01-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015. At its regular meeting on 25 March 2015, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending the Investment Promotion Act. The meeting was attended by Lyuben Petrov, Deputy Minister of Economy, Elena Pistovkoveva, Head of the Department of Economic Policies for Promotion and Iliya Tabakov, expert in the same ministry. The draft, presented by Deputy Minister Luben Petrov, concerns the applicable state aid regime in the implementation of the incentive measures under the Investment Promotion Act: reduced time limits for administrative service; individual administrative service; acquisition of property rights or limited property rights, without tender or competition; financial support for building technical infrastructure elements; financial support for training of new jobs employed under the investment project; financial support for partial reimbursement of the costs incurred by the investor, as an employer, compulsory social security contributions for the state, additional compulsory pension insurance and compulsory health insurance for the newly appointed workers and employees. According to the existing provisions of the Law, the financial measures, which are of the nature of State aid, are granted under two schemes for regional investment aid and training. To date, the incentive measures under the Law have been granted in accordance with the General Block Exemption Regulation (EC) No 800/2008 of 6 August 2008 declaring certain categories of aid compatible with the common market in application of Articles 87 and 88 of the Treaty. On 26 June 2014, the new General Block Exemption Regulation (EU) No 651/2014 of the Commission of 17 June 2014 declaring certain categories of aid compatible with the internal market in application of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty, in force from 1 July 2014. In this regard, it is necessary to amend the Investment Promotion Act and its implementing regulations to ensure that they comply with the requirements of European law. The approval of the new schemes complying with the requirements of Regulation (EU) 651/2014 and the notification to the European Commission will ensure the possibility of providing all incentive measures under the Investment Promotion Act. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the bill amending the Investment Promotion Act, No 502-01-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Karastoyanova. There are no speeches. I put to the first vote the bill amending the Investment Promotion Act submitted by the Council of Ministers, strongly supported by colleagues in the Commission. We vote. The bells ring, MPs don't hear... Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u145	Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I am proposing a reduction of the time limit for written proposals for amendments and additions to the bill adopted at the first vote today amending the Investment Promotion Act, No 502-01-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015, on three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u146	There's no opposite opinion. We vote. Vote 80 MPs: 79 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, in about five minutes we don't have time to start the next item. [[Noise and lines.]] If you make an offer to extend the time until the end, but there will be debates, so................................................................................................ [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Valeri Simeonov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u147	Colleagues, I suggest that we extend the sitting, given that the text is one sentence. It's a very short bill. I suppose you'll understand, it won't take us more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u148	I shall put the proposal to the vote. Colleagues, this is really about a text. Vote 80 MPs: 64 against 6, abstention 10. The proposal is not accepted.................................................... is [[Reply by National Representative Valeri Simeonov.]] Do you have any extra force, backup? We need voices in the room. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u149	Madam President, I ask for a re-vote, as many of my fellow Members have failed to vote. Seventy-one votes is the quorum, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u150	It's a re-vote. Vote 81 MPs: 72 against 4, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR POLYTICAL PARTIES. Mr. Kirilov, a brief summary of the report, which is short enough. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u151	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law for Supplement to the Law on Political Parties, No 554-01-32, submitted by Valeri Simeonov Simeonov and a group of MPs on 13 February 2015. In the meeting of the Legal Commission, held on 18 March 2015, the project was presented by the MP Hristian Mitev. The bill provides that a party in the process of registration may not use a name, parts of it or an abbreviation of an existing name of a coalition of parties registered in the Central Election Commission. The discussion was attended by MPs Petar Slavov, Christian Mitev and Svilen Ivanov. In the course of the discussion Mr. Petar Slavov expressed the need to refine the bill in order to allow in the future an existing coalition or parliamentary group to establish a political party with the same name. He also proposed that the text in the draft Law be used in part of the title to avoid limiting the possibility of popular words such as "Bulgaria" being used in the name of a party. In response the MPs Hristian Mitev and Svilen Ivanov agreed with the specifics and comments made. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes for the political parties, without the opposition and the abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for Supplement to the Law on Political Parties, No 554-01-32, submitted by Valeri Simeonov Simeonov and a group of MPs on 13 February 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-02.u152	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the first vote the Law on Supplement to the Law on Political Parties submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs because there was no desire of the importer to present the Law. Vote 84 MPs: 80 against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB and PF.]] Thank you, colleagues. Parliamentary Control Communication on Friday 3 April 2015 at 11:00: First will answer the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova to eight questions by the MPs Willi Lilkov, Krasimir Yankov, Georgi Kovachev, Stanislav Stanilov, two questions, Svetoslav Belemezov, Manol Genov, and Magdalena Tasheva. Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev will answer four questions from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov, Georgi Bozhinov, Jayhan Ibryamov, and Georgi Gokov. Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov and a question from the National Representative Ivan Slavov Ivanov. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva will answer three questions from the MPs Georgi Bozhinov. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer 12 questions from the MPs Ivan Stankov and Georgi Kuchukov, Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev "two questions," Dimitar Delchev, Boris Yachev, Stefan Kenov, Svetla Bachvarova "two questions," Cornelia Ninova, Manol Genov, Ivan Kirilov Ivanov and Rumen Hristov "a common question," and Nikolay Alexandrov. The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev will answer three questions from the MPs Kalina Balabanova, Borislav Iglev, Mariana Boyadjieva and Stoyan Mirchev, and two questions from the MPs Boyka Marinska, and Ivan Penkov Ivanov. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer seven questions from the MPs Slavcho Atanasov, Slavi Binev, Petar Slavov stwo questions, Georgi Svilenski, Miglena Alexandrova, and Georgi Svilenski, Zhelyo Boychev and Stoyan Mirchev. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer eight questions from the MPs Desislav Chukolov, Krasimir Yankov, Cornelia Marinova, Georgi Bozhinov, Borislav Iglev, Alexander Metodiev, Martin Dimitrov, and Philip Popov. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer two questions from the MPs Volen Siderov, and Petar Slavov. Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov will answer a question from the MPs Georgi Andonov and Krasen Krastev. The Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov will answer a question from the MPs Chavdar Georgiev and Philip Popov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure adjourned replies by seven days have requested: - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova, and Borislav Iglev; - Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev on a question from the National Representative Volen Siderov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Ercan Ebatin; - the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to two questions from the MPs Jayhan Ibryamov, and Lyubomir Vladimirov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to two questions from the MPs Vili Lilkov, and Nikolay Alexandrov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to two questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Gokov, and Ivan Kirilov Ivanov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to two questions from the MPs Georgi Svilenski, and Slavi Binev. Due to the use of paid annual leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski will not participate. Due to pre-planned commitments in the parliamentary control meeting, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov, the Minister of Health Petar Moskov, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova and the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will not participate. Tomorrow's regular plenary session, starting hour 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
