ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Dear Members of Parliament, we are continuing today with the debate on: FIRST VOICE OF THE LEGISLATION LAW AND ADVISION OF THE LAW FOR HEALTH DISCLOSURE On yesterday, some of the MPs who expressed their willingness to speak did so. I recall the time at which the parliamentary groups have so far, explaining that so far no MP on behalf of a parliamentary group has yet to ask for an extension of time. Within the regular time for the debate the groups have the following minutes: GERB 26 minutes and 23 seconds; BSP LB Before I gave the floor to Professor. Stankov of the ABB Parliamentary Group, I would like to remind you that at 10:00 the President of the Republic Mr. Plevneliev will address the National Assembly on the occasion of the completed month of political consultations. If, by then, which is likely to happen, we are not finished with the debate, at 10:00 will be interrupted to hear from the President. Then we will continue the debates on the Bill. Professor Stankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u2	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am authorized by the ABB Parliamentary Group not as a medic, but as a medic, to express our opinion on the proposed bill. We are very confident that the changes in the current health insurance system are absolutely necessary. They must ensure a fairer distribution of public funds, better medical care for the needy and more rational use of financial resources. A system where both contractors and users of funding bodies are dissatisfied with the status quo, obviously needs changes. In this sense, the proposals of the team of the Ministry of Health are timely and expected. The meaning of these changes can be systematized in several points. Firstly, improving the collection of contributions to the Health Insurance Fund. The bill proposes a number of measures in this direction. They affect both employers and individuals providing. For the latter, it is envisaged that the persons will recover their health insurance rights if they pay the contributions for three years within six months of the adoption of these amendments. After this period for the use of the health funds, the uninsured should pay all the contributions for 15 years. This may be fair, but it is contrary to a number of laws determining a statute of limitations for government and municipal claims of five years. These texts will most likely be repealed by the Constitutional Court and should be withdrawn as they create unnecessary tensions in the system. In this regard, there is a blatant contradiction in the logic of the proposed changes. It is known that the State is currently paying half of the minimum contributions to the persons it provides. It is proposed to increase its contributions by 5% annually so that full contributions are paid in 2025. It is not clear for what reason attempt is made to discipline all individual importers, but to give indulgence to the largest debtor, for 10 years. Secondly, a re-establishment of the contractual start. The measures proposed in this respect are welcomed by all actors in the system. The participants in the contractual process must be carefully evaluated. At present, a number of thought organizations have claims for such participation. We believe that only the organisation of determining factors should be involved in the process, as the endless increase of negotiators inevitably leads to the negotiations to fail. Third, there are three pillars of healthcare. This is the revolutionary change in our health insurance system. Due to the lack of experience in Bulgaria in this regard, there are a number of controversial moments and ambiguities. Emergency aid is a priority of the state and is available to everyone. This axiom is leading in all systems and provides basic care for everyone who needs it. It should be noted here that a new definition of the concept of "Emergency" is needed. The various aids include a number of signs that are irrelevant to the needs of the specialists who have to make a decision in minutes, such as the definition based on possible consequences within 24 hours. In the absence of clear criteria Emergency assistance may be a loophole for the care of health-insured, health-insured and draining of the cassata. The second pillar covers significant diseases. This pillar provides undefeated medical care to all health care providers. This pillar would be fully secured by the National Health Insurance Fund. For the purpose of assessing the proposal, a list of these diseases should be provided. We expect that major discussions will take place in connection with it. There must be representatives of the scientific companies in the various specialities in the preparation of the study. The Doctor's Union and patient organizations. It is not clear where some rare diseases remain, which are not socially defined, but require long-term and very expensive treatment. Third pillar: covers diseases that can be treated in delayed order. For those suffering from these diseases, a waiting list is being created, the question is how long or additional health insurance is being used. In our view, the latter violates one of the main signs of health insurance. It would be very difficult to explain to health-insured people the need to postpone their treatment with available bed facilities and equipment. In this way one of the few advantages of our healthcare services is removed. Four. Increased composition of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund. It is envisaged that the Supervisory Board will be increased by two representatives of the state. This text met with unanimous disapproval. It's a kind of holding in a public institution. Given that the state is the most irregular payer, this even sounds cynical. We believe that this text should be withdrawn. Fifthly, arbitration committees. All medical aid contractors welcome the restoration of real-time arbitration committees. In order for them to be effective and to benefit from trust, their composition must be determined so that there is no majority of the representatives of the sanctioning authorities. Otherwise, the decisions are decided, and the presence of the committees themselves is already controversial. Six. The bill does not specify measures against medical establishments which act selectively and do not provide medical assistance in full according to the operating licence, the accreditation of medical establishments and the requirements of the standards of the different disciplines. Mass practice is a refusal to serve emergency patients and those with resource-intensive diseases. In general, the proposed changes are a step in the right direction. The ABB Parliamentary Group will support them in the first vote. At the same time, there are a number of weaknesses and unresolved problems, which is why we reserve the right to propose some amendments between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u3	Thank you, too, Professor. Stankov. Are there any lines to that statement? I can't see, fellow Members. We continue with a speech from Mr. Abu Melih of the GERB Parliamentary Group. Here you go, Mr. Melih. After him is Georgi Gokov, then Mr. Tuncher Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The minister's out somewhere, but I have a few questions for him in the spirit of what's going on. Dear MPs, the reform in its context as a reform in any sector in general is looking for two indicators to increase: the first is justice, to have greater justice in the system and the second is the efficiency of the system to work more efficiently. This is the goal of every reform. So my questions to the Minister for Reform...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u5	I'm sorry, Mr. Melih. Minister, there are questions for you. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u6	My questions to the Minister are divided into two parts. One is global and the other is local. Global first. By making this reform, we from GERB will support it and many other parties will support it, but what will we achieve in ten years, like which European state will we become? Where will the health of the Bulgarians go? Will it increase the average age? Will children's diseases fall and so on. These are global issues because we have health reform. Local issues: first, about the National Health Insurance Fund. The National Health Insurance Fund already takes over the main pillar of all Bulgarian citizens. My question is this: if I will have additional insurance, if I will have a second pillar, will the National Health Insurance Fund in the future continue to take the accrued percentage of my salary, or will it be a fixed payment, as is the insurance premiums? This is very important as a question. I know that this year or the next time the reform starts, that can't happen, but we need to know where the future is headed from now on. In short: if I with one insurance for the second pillar will pay, for example, 20 BGN, why not pay 50 or 100 BGN for the first pillar where it is also fixed. And come from the employer? These are questions that may not be answered immediately, but to see what horizon and where we are going. Secondly, about the National Health Insurance Fund. After the introduction of the reform, the key question: will the limits drop, because they are previously sold goods by the state of hospitals and the goods are the patient! Limits are the sweetest steam for stealing from the Health Insurance Fund and draining it! I know that at the moment, today, while reform is being introduced, it is inevitable that a financial framework should be put in place, but what will the future be again with limits or they drop out? There's a difference between waiting list and limits. Limits is what the hospital decides on its own, and the waiting list is an external institution that says, no, you won't be operated on today, you'll be operated on in six months and so on. My next question: the state is increasing the number of people with two figures in the Board of Health with the assumption. Yesterday I heard very carefully the minister that the state always does the Cashier at the end of the year by updating the budget. That's why the state deserves a greater presence. I don't want to play the role of opposition, but this thesis is not correct, because in principle the state took a billion and a half of the Health Insurance Fund and is now returning them. It's money for health that's in the budget. Nobody paid taxes. So this thesis isn't right. What concerns me is not that I mind having two of the state enter, but the nature, the spirit of the Health Insurance Fund is dropping out and becoming a state institution, and this state institution is not related to public money. The institution does not spend state money on taxes, but spends some money on a specialized fee, specialized in health! Here is the big question what is the goal and what will we achieve if we bring in two more? If it's in favor of reform, I agree. But if it's just like that to increase our influence, what's the point? That's an important question. My next question is about consumer rights at all. We are not doing this reform because of the Minister or the MPs. The reform we do it for patients to be better treated and more satisfied with the health system. Their role in the Health Insurance Act is almost insignificant, I don't even see it. Even the satisfaction I welcome for him does not define the patient himself, but I will define him again as a state institution. Therefore, here I welcome, we will have a commitment to insert between first and second reading mechanisms into the Law, where we give the patient direct rights to the user of the system, to control his treatment process, what happens to him. You have no idea how much money it will save the state, because two million hospitalized people will become two million controllers who work for free! Two million will control the entire system! And it's a mechanism that's not being used... that we made up here. It's a mechanism that's widely used in the West. Okay. The next one is about the insurance companies that will fit into the second pillar. I welcome it, it's the right thing to do. Will there be a government control body to control the actions of the insurance companies? Why? Because the insurance company could start refusing insurance! There's a young man who's almost zero. They'll say, "Yeah, you're welcome, yeah, give me your money." There'll be an adult with diabetes, and... they'll say, "I'm sorry, but we don't need you, you're all torn apart, I'll go bankrupt because of you." Yes, it is! These are problems the Americans are having. So will there be a control body, like in the Netherlands, which obliges the insurers not to refuse insurance the first, and, the second, the most bizarre, gives an insurance charge! It's like the civilization, it's known that, basically, it's within these frames, and it's not a stretching figure that can start at one lev and reach a thousand. My next question. The management of state resources as medical institutions is one of the reasons we have problems in the health system. I'm not saying that private hospitals are very good at it, no, but we do have a huge resource of state hospitals that, if they don't break up, will reflect on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on, on. They're seriously going to reflect! In time, you will see that there will be a cataclysm between one and the other, both in the field of state. Last I finish this way the reform really must be globally adopted by the entire National Assembly. Yesterday, I noticed that even the left side did not go against the minister with the opposition to the minister or against what is being proposed by the government because they know that this is the way out. There's no other way out but to drop a second pole. The other option is to increase the contribution instead of 8% to become 12 for example, but this is effective. Everyone knows that's the solution! The problem is this: in this type of first pillar and second pillar, the first pillar, which has certain diagnoses, the danger is only to have a problem in the future and to come some government where populism is higher as a dose in it, and to say, for example: In the first pillar we include everything. And then it's gonna be like this. [[Shows with hands.]] That's why I think there should be a mechanism in the law to regulate these things. Otherwise the idea is perfect, right, in the right direction we are going. I want answers about the global.. how will our health improve, what are we chasing? Who's health: the Frenchman, the Englishman, the Dutchman, the Czechs, who are we chasing? And what will happen to the funds that enter the National Health Fund, and how will they be spent transparently? There is also a key point here. Since 2012 it is not published how much is paid to hospitals, it is not available as information. You as MPs can get it, but if you put a question to the Minister, this is a public resource. Why is this information hidden?! Here are many things that affect a reform to happen. These fine settings should be made between first and second readings. I appeal to all MPs from all the political forces to support it this is the right direction. Let everyone give their opinion on this topic and get to consensus where after ten years it is the same and not change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u7	Thank you, Mr. Melih. - What's the line? I can't see. The next speech is from the MP Georgi Gokov from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u8	Mr. Chairman, first I want an extension of the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u9	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! You present this bill as part of the government's reform concept. I do not see it as health reform, but as a step back. Mr. Minister, yesterday with your 22-minute speech you tried to convince us that almost everything in health care will be fine from now on, but let's remember 1999, when you started health reform again your party, although under another name, superlatives, promises and prospects, and now we need to reform the reform, so we can't trust you now. [[BSP LB lines]] Although there are rational grains in your proposals, there are not many. There has been a lot of talk, but I can't help but mention some facts that raise concerns about me, and should raise concerns about every sane Bulgarian. I start from what the Bulgarian citizens are very worried about. In the Law, each of the word organizations in health care sees something they like, but they don't have the patients. I feel like you're trying to do health care without patients. Are you sure, Mr. Minister and gentlemen of importers, and colleagues supporting the bill, that by dividing the package of health services, that by introducing the waiting list and with another large part of the unreasonable proposals, you will make patients fall into a state of wild enthusiasm or that in some way they will feel satisfied? Now the Cashier covers a basic package, which includes the treatment of all diseases. There is no way to accept without serious concerns the separation of this package of health services paid by the Case of Emergency, Main and Additional. The idea is that all serious and socially significant diseases should be included in the basic package and their treatment should be directed to the financial resource, and additional diseases that do not endanger life. The financial resources for them will be limited, which means that for access to free coverage from the Casa treatment will be waiting. There'll be a waiting list. If the health insurance person does not want to be on the waiting list and wants immediate access to treatment, he will have to pay for it or rely on additional health insurance. In this way, you formalise paid healthcare within the framework of the services that health insured persons should receive free of charge because they have been provided. Moreover, you do not represent these packages as developed packages of activities, but only with general talk. A serious change in the health insurance model is proposed and there is no clarity about the methodological basis for this separation and the criteria for including or not including medical activities in the so-called packages. It is not clear what are the reasons for the division and what are the expected financial and social results. Despite the persistent questions yesterday from the stand, the question was not answered: will the National Health Insurance Fund pay at all for the supplementary package? My suspicions, which will become reality if the Bill is adopted, are that health insured persons against their insurance contributions will receive less health services than they have received now and more and more difficult to receive. Is this the reform you're proposing? According to the Bulgarian interpretation dictionary, the meaning of the word "reform" is "supplication," change, transformation to introduce something new and something better. What better for the Bulgarian you introduce with these proposals? Health reform should lead to good health care and to an extension of the scope of health services provided, not to limiting and narrowing them down and making it difficult to access them. And we come to one of the most controversial proposals -- an increase in the state's quota in the Cashier's management. That's how the three-party rule principle of the Cashier is rudely violated. The members of the Supervisory Board will be responsible for the state and effectiveness of the work of the Cashier and, with responsibility, must have mechanisms for an effective impact on the decisions of the Supervisory Board, and this change is practically impossible. This is not a European model. Public funds in Europe and the civilised democratic world are not governed by the state. The reasons with which this proposal is justified are unfounded and unacceptable, because whatever you promise us with an increase in the quota of the state, a majority is provided for taking decisions without respecting the opinions of the other groups. The most commonly used term for this your proposal by the people and the media is the holding of the National Health Insurance Fund and the principle should be to seek a balance of interests. Why don't you see a good example on the NSI Supervisory Board? If the state is allowed to have a decisive vote on the Supervisory Board, the institution does not actually make sense. With this proposal, you're turning the Cashier into some sort of subsidiary of the Ministry of Health. Mr. Minister, two of your deputies are currently in the Chamber of Commerce. You want to put the third one in there? And your chief secretary or chief of staff? I'm not gonna stop at 2010 when one billion. 400 million. The cashier's accounts have gone to the central budget. I would just like to point out that now, in the predominance of the State in the Supervisory Board, such a decision will be quite easy to make only with a decision of this Council, let us say on a proposal from the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister. Let me remind you, Minister, that at the last meeting of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation in discussing the proposed amendments to the Bill, all the partners took a single position and strongly opposed your intention to increase the state quota in the Supervisory Board. Doesn't it frighten you, Minister, the letter to the media of the four nationally represented employers' organizations and the two trade unions that they will reconsider their participation in the Casa Supervisory Board in protest against the changes you have prepared to increase the state quota in this Supervisory Board? We of the BSP parliamentary group left Bulgaria have a huge desire to be constructive opposition, but there is no way to support this bill. We can cooperate with you as governors in the name of the hardworking people in Bulgaria, but only by preserving the essence of what is in our program and our commitments to the people who have given us support. In health, these commitments are: health, which strengthens the public nature of the system by making the state more involved; health, which equalises access in different regions; health, which introduces clear standards for medical activities and equivalent financial conditions for different hospitals.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u11	Are we going to engage the state, or are we not going to engage it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u12	We'll book her. Unfortunately, in the proposals of the First Voting Bill,...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u13	Mr. Minister, you'll have the floor later.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u14	...sent by the Council of Ministers, we do not see any of these policies, so we will not support it. Mr. Minister, if I don't eat my time, I'll tell you that we're going to engage the state, but by paying all the insurance to the Cashier, not...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u15	The state won't control the costs, but we'll engage it?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u16	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, you'll have a chance to answer later. Replies to the statement of the MP Mr. Gokov? I can't see. We will continue with the next speech Mr. Tuncher Kardzhaliev. We have a request from three MPs from the Parliamentary Group of GERB, and I will give you the floor in a moment. Here you go, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u17	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Obviously, the bill for amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act is the first pilot reform bill. We have recently witnessed that the Ministry of Health is bringing out new ideas, unfortunately in fragmented and unformed form. It is true that healthcare is a reflection of the state's current state, but that approach, in my opinion, also concerns this bill, is ineffective and inappropriate. More than that, I think it's bordering on populism. There are many examples. Although I will deviate from the subject of the Bill, I am tempted to mention them because, indeed, without any discussion at any level, they were thrown into the media space. The topics are those attacks on contracts with cardiological laboratories, the solid budgets of hospitals, the removal of paper fields, the supply of 400 plus 200 linear, the regime for harmful foods, the ideas for reorganization of telk and so on, and so on, including the latest threats to change the undisciplined managers of the hospital. In my opinion, it is disturbing the minister's approach to presenting the ideas. Mr. Chairman, you should have extended the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u18	Yeah, it's extended proportional to all the groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u19	However, there is no such coordination, unfortunately, not only with the opposition, which we can accept as a natural phenomenon, but such coordination clearly does not exist with political powers of the ruling majority. At this stage, their representatives with a quiet voice share these concerns that they are surrounded by a factor. In recent years, I have convinced myself that every significant factor in the Ministry of Health understands that a reform in this system is not within the power of a single entity, whether it is a person or a political party. A reform that would be effective, with a vision for the future, would happen when there is at least a minimal consensus between the representative political forces in the Republic of Bulgaria. In the age of information technology, as we know, there are two kinds of ignorant. Some are smug ignorant, and others are reading ignorant. I see, including in this Parliament, many people from the second group, which should be at the heart of health reform. After all, we need to summarize that Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic and the route on which the health reform will run should be in the Committee on Health and in this meeting room, not elsewhere. On top of that, as Dr. Ademov pointed out yesterday, the opinion of the Council for Tripartite Cooperation with the participation of trade unions and employers, which is legally regulated, including in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, was also not sought. NHIF also has a surprising, for me, a position. The NHIF literally didn't accept this bill. I was surprised at the final opinion regarding the purchase of medical services, the distribution of the basic and additional package, the termination of contracts due to frustration, and also the increase in the number of state representatives in the Supervisory Board. Two days ago, the new NHIF governor said that with at least one third of the new amendments to the Health Insurance Act, he could not agree. It is surprising the behavior of the Bulgarian Medical Union, but in this case it is conformist. Such an opinion we have observed other times when one government is initiated. Apparently, traditional claims to the Ministry of Health, at this stage, have been extinguished with the appointment of a sub-manager from this environment. After all, we have to say that there are acceptable ideas, and if they were properly presented, we would also support them. Here I am talking about the contractual beginning, about arbitration, about control with some remarks, about centralized negotiation, about health technology and so on. In general, the bill outlines, in my opinion, a nebula silhouette of reform, without markers, with no clear purpose and ultimately no direction towards that goal. I will focus more on the changes in the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, because yesterday Dr. Ademov pointed out our remarks regarding the basic law. I'd just like to ask a few questions there. First, the restoration of arbitration committees. It's a useful rehabilitation, given the previous arrangement. But there, if we look at the details, we will find that it has nothing to do with the new status quo and what was before the arbitration committees existed. What exactly do I mean? There will be a majority of representatives of the RZIF and RZI......................................................................................... The system wasn't built that way a long time ago. Joint checks are a commendable idea, but there are also representatives of RZI there. I don't see what RZI will check in these joint checks for good medical practice? The proposal to study patient satisfaction and termination of contracts contains a serious charge populism, in my opinion. This is because there will always be a hypothesis of biased attitude and subjectiveism, there will be an increase of unfounded complaints and slander, and even an attempt at racketeering. Further on, obviously waiting lists will be formed. If health reform is involved, this is a completely unknown situation, and I fear that especially for some diseases, if they are not included in the main list, for example oncology, that would mean a death sentence. The lists will also compromise the right to choose for a preferred medical facility. When the resources are exhausted in one hospital, the patient will be forced to look for another hospital.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u20	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u21	In the end, that's all I want to mention. In short, this bill is not the expected, useful for Bulgarian healthcare. It solves conjunctural problems and does not contain an effective vision for a foreseeable future. The hope of adjustments between first and second reading, the hope of a legislative correction with regulations for the improvement of this bill, in my opinion, is an illusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u22	Thank you, Mr. Kardzhaliev. With this, the DPS Parliamentary Group's speaking time is over. A line? [[DPS lines.]] This is the right of the People's Representative................................................................. a Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u23	Dear Mr. Kardzhaliev, I couldn't understand the last thing you will do or will you not support?! What is proposed in this Law is one to one thing that you proposed last term [[DSS and DSS lines]] Please, in the Strategy for the Development of Bulgarian Health. It's the same thing! This is in the archives of the National Assembly. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] You would have done the same thing, but you didn't have enough time for people to take you out. Nothing more, nothing less! You know this is the only solution for our health care. If I'm wrong, pull out your strategy, which you and your experts did, and disprove me. Please! There he writes about additional funding and so on the same thing, there is no difference. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Just because you're not in power, does that always mean you're against it? You want consensus, don't you?! [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Okay, you want the minister to communicate with you nicely. Do you want to communicate with him? Is that communication behavior? Or a mistake, a mistake, a mistake and so on! You are in the role of classical opposition, there is no constructiveness. Any details about the logistics of the reform you should have said! I won't! I repeat: you know that this is the only solution and there is no other solution. The trick is to unite all of us once and for all and go in the right direction! If it's not Minister Moskov tomorrow, if you're Minister, let's go the same way again.! Do not make me think at the end of the day the reform in its true sense is aimed at those who do not pay and pretend to be smart people in our society, to go to pay and be equal to the others. Let it not happen that for example your voters have not paid their contributions and now you are wondering what to say to them in the next election! Is that why?! If that's the reason, instead of meatballs and kebabs, you'll still have a solution. [[Laughter, excitement.]] Don't take no, no, no. Where else would we go?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u24	Is this the conclusion of the last term? [[Relation of lines between the MPs Hasan Ademov and Abu Melih.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u25	Thank you, Mr. Melih. Second line, Mr. Bayraktarov. I will repeat on duty: please concentrate on the topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Kardzhaliev, Minister, of course this Bill is not the one expected by the DPS for the simple reason that the DPS has not been given the opportunity to distribute public funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u27	That's right!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u28	It's a simple and simple truth. Mr. Kardzhaliev, since years, even in the newly formed municipality of Sarnitsa you have not bothered to make a medical station...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u29	Please stick to the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u30	That's right on the subject. You have absolutely no moral right to criticize this Bill, and all the more so that you comment on those who really do not honor you to comment. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u31	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Third line? I can't see. Mr. Kardzhaliev. I see the Minister wants to speak. I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Abu Melih, you're right, I think like you. We have a dialogue with you for a reason, Mr. Abu Melih. I believe that the theme is a non-partisan category of health. That's why, if you know what I mean. [[Applause from MP Abu Melih]] , the previous term on every question proposed by former Minister of Health Tanya Andreeva, I personally called several people from you to ask for your opinion. That's how it's supposed to be done.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u33	What were you suggesting?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u34	We don't feel jealous. This is why we do not have an aggressive approach, which you have suggested, either to the Minister of Health or to the institution which represents and proposes these changes. As for the reform we are all talking about, you know very well that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms stands behind the radical model, behind the Dutch model, behind the full demonopolitanization. In this we meet a very serious resonance with some of the representatives of the Committee on Health, especially those of the Political Party GERB. For example, today, in the Committee on Health, we will consider the Health 2020 Programme. Rest assured, I will support her. I met her. This is the way, this is the consensus approach to have reforms in Bulgarian healthcare. As for Mr. Bayraktarov's line, I will say this. Mr. Bajraktarov, I follow a principle and do not often go out on this stand, but only when I feel adequate on the subject. The principle is this: when you say something and it doesn't improve silence, you better keep quiet. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u35	Thank you, Mr. Kardzhaliev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor. Please be brief. There's a lot of other speeches written down.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u36	I'll try. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I see one thing I don't know, the buy word is "dualism," the medical word is another.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u37	The medical word we know.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u38	I'm not saying what the medical word is.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u39	Please don't engage in dialogue with each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u40	But when you say at the same time that you have written in your program "Increasing the role of the state" but at the same time you are against increasing the role of the state in the body that controls the way the money of the Bulgarian taxpayers is spent, I will not call it by the medical word, there is a gap between the election program and what you are talking about now. When you talk about consensus, but you call each other different from your opinion, I wrote down: incomprehensible, conformist, wrong, wrong, populist, populist, that's also, how do I say?! You either want consensus, or you call anyone who thinks differently than you, with some kind of offensive word. [[DPS lines.]] So much for the principle. I am delighted with Mr. Kardzhaliev's last words because he said that today in the Health Commission the team of the Ministry will present the concept of the government for health reform. This corresponds in some way to the serious part of the argument with which the Movement for Rights and Freedoms said it would not support the Bill. You said things were fragmented. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] I'm saying, I'm quite calmly trying to answer. You say it's fragmented, it's not conceptual. Each of the things that you, Mr. Kardzhaliev, have outlined as separate ideas is actually part of a consistent implementation of the concept 2020. And if you really support this kind of concept, for which I thank you, then you should also support the individual mechanisms for its realization! Now on a very important issue that Mr. Abu Melih has raised. It is the root of the concept itself: what do we achieve when we make a reform? I think the coworkers were asking about that too. The government has therefore set targets for which it seeks, set steps and litmuses to achieve these objectives in Programme 2020. Targets are the only ones who can bet a healthcare system ahead of them, and it is a reduction of individual indicators in individual age groups of morbidity and total population mortality. If these objectives have not been set before, this is the clear answer why we are bringing more and more money into the system, and the health status of the Bulgarians is getting worse and worse compared to the average European indicators. Therefore, Mr Abu Melih, ladies and gentlemen, the objectives are those clearly recorded in the Strategy: by 2020 in each age group to reduce morbidity rate, to increase the survival resulting from important socially significant diseases. Here is the answer to the question what is the main package of the Cashier. These are diseases that in 95% of cases lead to these poor health indicators. The goal of adopting the concept, part of the realization of which are the changes in the Health Insurance Act, is precisely the achievement of these real health indicators of the nation. They are clearly described in the concept and are clearly traceable as the success of the team of the Ministry and the majority, which supported the concept and these programmes. There's something else here that was said again by I call him a doctor, but anyway, that's actually one part of the system change. With the entry of the compulsory health card, i.e. hospital infrastructure, and with the change in the payment of medical work on the qualification scale, as it is in the whole of the normal world, and not in the toll, as it is now, because someone has seen a lot of market, this, along with changes in the health insurance law, will close the reasons for us all the time to seek, to control quantitative criteria to justify quality. Is that your question? By doing these two things, the next sensible step, because this gives the parameters of the need for the system next week here will be the chiefs of funds in a serious part of the European countries and I will be pleased to hear them in the Committee on Health, to explain to you. To the question: is it possible to find a new hospital, they will look at you with astonishment and tell you: "Of course it is possible, but there is absolutely no possibility that this hospital will enter into a contract with a solidarity fund, simply because there is clarity about what needs the patient has and how they are satisfied. That is, by closing these two taps, from there comes the real change in the standards on which Bulgarian healthcare, Bulgarian doctors work. They will be cleared of quantitative indicators. Over the years, we put administrative, equipment, quantitative requirements for number of doctors in order to limit costs. Absolutely wrong position! But to that end, we need to set the macrogram from which we all agree that we will not get out. Something that I absolutely cannot agree with, and I will say it: to call the patient's opinion of the satisfaction of what they are receiving will be part of the assessment of the work of the medical establishment an approach that I absolutely do not accept.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u41	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now on the list is Faith Cerovska. Dr. Cerovska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u42	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I would like to address some of the undisputed advantages of the proposed Bill. First of all, the restoration of the contractual start between the National Health Insurance Fund and the word organizations. Without this dialogue there is no way to trust the health care system, there is no way for the patient to believe that the National Health Insurance Fund, apart from a financing and controlling body, is a partner of those who care for the health of the patient. The second very important point in the Bill is restoring the role of the arbitration groups. Arbitration groups will help the Health Insurance Fund to a very large extent because it is known and it is an undisputed fact that the National Health Insurance and Regional Banks do not have professional potential that can precisely intervene when it is necessary to resolve a dispute by the controlling institution. In medicine never two and two is four and regardless of the clearly defined rules for indication and, say, hospitalization and dehospitalization, the individual medical case could receive an accurate and correct assessment only with the intervention of a profile specialist. It is extremely important that participation in these arbitration groups is also important in addition to health care professionals, dentists, medical specialists and pharmacists. Another very important point in the proposed Bill is increasing the role of the state by increasing health insurance contributions by 5% from January 2016. Yes, it is for certain groups of self-insuring individuals that will show that the role of the state is so important that the deficit in the health care system can be overcome and the empty pocket of the Health Insurance Fund can be filled. There is no way for us honourable Members not to take an opinion on how to improve collection measures. This is our extremely important task not only in words, but with concrete measures that are laid down in this Bill. It is the right of every citizen in clinical health to do just that in order to be able to use the model of the solidarity principle when needed. We could think about whether it is necessary, for example, as in Germany, to have certain grace periods in which certain social groups for a shorter period can pay their health insurance contributions, say, as it is now in three years. But without such extremely serious and responsible measures, which so far are being talked about, there is no way that these Bulgarian citizens who have the opportunity to pay their health insurance, and for some reason do not, understand that this is extremely important and the state has a very serious attitude in this matter. It is extremely important that the proposed Bill introduces a mandatory centralised negotiation of concessions for medicinal products. The effects are many: first of all, the fight against corruption; second of all, the prognosis of funds. There is no way we can manage a system and want it to be stable if we can't account for what means are needed and how they will be equal. I would also like to stress that it is extremely important to introduce drug policy algorithms within three months of the adoption of the Project. Yes, scientific companies have their responsibility to the patient because it is only so that every Bulgarian citizen, regardless of which point of the country is located, will be sure and calm to himself that he will receive this drug policy, those medicines with which every Bulgarian who is treated at the best university clinic. There is much to be added to the proposed Bill, but for this there is time between first and second readings. I believe that we will support this modern reading and we will make sure that the Second Reading Bill is even better. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u43	Thank you, Dr. Cerovska. - What's the line? I won't. Go ahead, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u44	Madam President, honourable Members! I propose a direct broadcast on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio of the President's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u45	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Ms Karayancheva's proposal the address of the President of the Republic to the National Assembly, which is expected to begin at 10:00, is to be broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. [[(The President of the Republic of Bulgaria Rosen Plevneliev enters the Chamber. The MPs from the center and from the right shall stand. (Applause)]] The vote is 121 MPs: 116, against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please turn on the National Television cameras and the National Radio microphones. Mr. President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u46	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! According to a well-established tradition, I address the National Assembly after the end of the month of political consultations. I thank the political parties that participated for their political responsibility and institutional culture. Together with you, we have discussed key reforms and important problems to solve. We have united that we need to ensure political stability and build on national priorities. The political diversity, which formed the Forty-third National Assembly, is a good foundation for this, despite the differences to support meaningful and nationally responsible actions. The political consultations we held over the past month have shown that there is potential for political agreement. I hope that during the year we will give the Bulgarian people enough examples of political principle and responsibility. I am confident that this will benefit the political system as a whole. We will strengthen citizens' trust in the institutions of parliamentary democracy. I believe that we have left behind a period of severe political opposition and have learned from it. The 43rd National Assembly began its work by demonstrating an approach to respect for parliamentaryism and a principled clash of ideas and decisions. I sincerely hope that we will preserve this spirit by wishing you a successful mandate. Bulgaria has its own action plan.. The National Development Programme.... Bulgaria 2020................................................................................................ By its priorities, we have reached a full consensus. We also have the instrument that will provide us with the necessary resources to meet the objectives set out in the Partnership Agreement with the European Commission by 2020. The Bulgarian people do not expect miracles from politicians, expect dedication and work in the right direction. That's how the results will come in. The 43rd National Assembly and the government can reverse the spiral of public trust. This is only possible through a principled approach and progress on national priorities. The consultations showed that there is no dispute about which sectors we should reform. Both politicians and citizens are aware that reforms will be made. There is also resource and agreement for reforms. Reforms are based on political dialogue. Reforms are achieved through political courage and broad political agreement for a national responsible action. The economy is at the heart of the solution to each of the problems we face. The big problem for the seventh year is low investment and growth. However, for investors to come, not oligarchs [[strong noise and lines from BSP left Bulgaria]] , need legal certainty and working regulators. The state must be able to guarantee justice and equality before the law for everyone. The Bulgarian society referred to the system of justice as a key priority. Political parties made very few commitments to reform this sector, and the forty-third National Assembly demonstrated a high level of political responsibility, approving the Strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary. [[Noise and lines from BSP left Bulgaria.]] All this brings positive expectations, but let's not delude ourselves the results do not come automatically. It's not enough just to have a strategy, not just to change the laws that we have set out. The independence and effectiveness of the judiciary are defended daily. The people are thirsty for justice. When he doesn't get it, he falls into the trap of lack of perspective and populism. On blatant crimes such as the revival process, the bankruptcy of the banks since 1997, the SAPARD affair, the KTB affair has not been punished and not a single lev returned to date. From missing notebooks to no coincidence distribution of cases the system has produced enough scandals. It's time for a change. Let us show that the judiciary can work for the trust of citizens and give justice. The reform cannot be postponed any longer. The people won't forgive us if the outrage just sweeps away like before. Let us follow the example of European countries where institutions enjoy people's trust and rules apply to everyone. During the political consultations, the issue of the need for amendments to the Constitution was repeatedly raised to allow for a much more complete and qualitative reform of the justice system. There is no doubt that the Constitution, such as any single legislative act, can be changed, but it is important that we conduct a comprehensive and thorough analysis, have a debate, use the entire scientific potential of the nation and, of course, the proposal for changes in constitutional texts to step up an assessment of sustainability of changes and impact assessment. However, I am confident that until then we have neither the time nor the right to wait. There are many good ideas that can be realized without constitutional change. The Constitution is not an obstacle to magistrates from law enforcement by conscience and by law. Even the most quality constitutional norm is unable in itself to guarantee the independence of the judiciary. Independence from economic circles, from the strong of the day is defended by both politicians and institutions and by citizens and judges who believe and act so that the rule of law is above everything and above everyone. We work together to join the free Schengen area. Political will and public consensus are in place. Being part of this space where there are no borders is a higher form of political trust. We need to show clear results in judicial reform, show sustainability of the changes and ensure their irreversibleness that is the way to work for trust. For the trust of citizens who will go freely across borders, but also investors who want to make sure that law prevails in our territory and not interests. There is a full consensus on the correct management of EU funds and the opportunity to make the most of European solidarity. Let 2015 be a record for Bulgaria for absorption of EU funds. Let's speed up the modernization of the country. Let us accept and work out a European Funds Act that will remove administrative obstacles and bet the electronic application for projects, as well as more effective control of the system. In 2015, we can also adopt a new Anti-Corruption Strategy. The people expect results. Thanks to European solidarity thousands of sites are implemented for the renovation of schools, kindergartens, public buildings, parks, roads, treatment plants and many others. The state and municipalities have awarded public contracts for almost 10 billion. lv. for 2014. Unfortunately, contracting entities avoid any electronic auction, although European legislation prescribes at least 30% of public procurement to be electronic. Let us adopt a new Public Procurement Act which will lead to the widespread use of electronic procurement. Whoever wants to fight corruption must introduce: First, generic and standardised public procurement. Secondly, electronic procurement. Third, electronic services for citizens. Fourth, the patient's electronic card. And the fifth, an energy market with market liberalisation, as a counterpoint of the irresponsible actions of a group of people in energy, which has been brought to a pre-fiction state and is a symbol of opaqueness, inefficiency and huge corruption in the system. The problem in Bulgarian energy is the state and the way it has acted so far. [[Noise and lines from BSP left Bulgaria.]] The problems of the sector are many and difficult to solve. For years this sector has been causing a problem after a problem on the financial stability of the state and has become a serious risk to social stability and national security. There is a broad political agreement on the implementation of reform in the sector........................................................................................... It is important to focus on the principles that will improve the system. Now that Europe is building its energy union, we have no right to miss this chance. We must part with the approach to solving every problem for ourselves and look at all energy as a system. There are three pillars on which the European Energy Union will be built supplies, liberalisation and energy efficiency. This must be the main focus of our efforts as well. Everything else is only tools and tools for achieving the goals. It is not so important how much gas we transport, but what price Bulgarian companies and households pay. Bulgaria has the highest price of gas in decades. However, fair price is achieved only through competition, through market liberalisation. The first steps in this direction have already been taken. The first steps are a fact, but the consensus is the fact that energy liberalisation will be a priority for both businesses and citizens in 2015. The Bulgarians deserve the freedom to choose a free market electricity supplier. Energy is one of the most important pillars of national security. There can't be any security when we're dependent on a single supplier, whoever he is. We have the chance precisely in the context of the European Energy Union and taking advantage of European solidarity to overcome our weakness by connecting our networks with those of the neighbours. This will make us more free, more independent, more secure and give us an impetus for new investments. In energy, we put efficiency first. I won't tire of repeating that the cheapest energy is saved. Energy efficiency is now becoming a national priority. I am sure that the implementation of the adopted large-scale plan for energy efficiency and renovation of Bulgarian housing [[(BSP LB lines: Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]] will provide millions of Bulgarians and the economy with much greater visible benefits than any of the projects of the big helmet. We agreed that political stability is this solid foundation on which we can step up to reform important public systems. We've achieved stability. So far, so good. However, stability cannot be permanent unless reforms are carried out, no matter who the government is and who is in opposition. The areas are clear and there is an agreement on the need for quality change in health care, pension system, education, administrative reform, water reform, security sector and energy. These are areas where the Bulgarian society expects the efforts of the government and parliament to be concentrated. The first steps are in place. Let's see the first results in the year. I know there are local elections ahead and I realize how difficult reforms are to make in an election year. But there will be elections in the future, and Bulgarian citizens will appreciate the principle and responsibility in solving the problems. Each system can be improved. Society expects sincerity. To show the truth and the estimates of the state of both hospitals and emergency care and the pension system, to discuss in the broadest public format everything we plan to do with realistic expectations and impact assessment. Then even the toughest reforms will be possible because we will have the most valuable resource of public support. [[Reply from BSP LB: "Trust! "]] The heavy blow that took over the Bulgarian financial system is to show us how important it is to ensure the financial stability and security of the citizens and the state for their finances. This can only be done by working regulators. It is important not just to deal with crises, but to look ahead, to create reliable mechanisms that will protect us from repeating mistakes. In the month of political consultations, honourable MPs, we reached a full consensus on Bulgaria's accession to the Single Supervisory Mechanism of the European Banking Union. Thanks for that. This membership certainly brings financial stability and security to citizens and the economy. Bulgaria is a country with the lowest debt in the Balkans and one of the three countries with the lowest debt in the European Union. [[Noise and lines in BSP LB.]] This advantage must be maintained. The economy in 2014 reached a growth of 1.7%, which is above expectations, but not enough to feel it. There's movement in most sectors of the economy. Efforts to achieve stability have already produced results. Let's hope we're at the beginning of a positive process. The reforms will unlock the potential even more. During the year we plan conservative growth of 0.8%, but we can achieve growth of up to 2% and in 2016. Even more than 3%. [[Audience in BSP LB.]] Investment in infrastructure must be stepped up. They lead to growth and reduction of regional imbalances. The National program for renovation and energy efficiency also strongly supports the growth, consumption and improvement of the quality of life of Bulgarian citizens. Tens of thousands of jobs will be created for small and medium-sized enterprises. Whatever reforms we make, without the focus on education, we will not succeed. A basic competence is required for everyone. Quality education and its modern forms are a strategic priority and fruit of broad political agreement for action. There is also a full consensus on the introduction of the dual training system so that our children can obtain more than knowledge, but also skills. They need to know, but they can. Measures in support of small and medium-sized enterprises, financing start-ups, the focus on reducing youth unemployment is with full political agreement and expectation of action and results. Bulgarian winter tourism has huge potential. Let us give a perspective for the development of Bulgarian ski destinations according to European environmental standards. In 2015, we can adopt general changes to the Tourism Act, which will put the tourism industry on sound foundations and give a sustainable perspective for development. Unfortunately, the international security environment has been strongly and negatively altered. Many of the principles we were accustomed to and taken for granted are at stake. Bulgaria is a member of the European Union - a unique and democratic union in which countries are not divided into small and large, strong and weak [[noise and raging in BSP LB]] And everyone's voice weighs. He's equal to the others. Peace and prosperity are impossible without the rule of law. Observing the rules is the real guarantee of peace. The Balkans and Europe have been destroyed many times, precisely because someone has decided that they can impose their goals through the power of the weapon. However, the weapon is evidence of lack of arguments. In the 21st century, learning from the mistakes of the ancestors, we are united [[noise and raging in BSP LB]] that there is no alternative to resolving the conflict Russia s Ukraine, apart from the peaceful path of diplomacy. Once again, we should not divide Bulgarians into phobias and philis, motivated only by expectations for close party benefits. Bulgarian society since its Renaissance supports the European path of development, and not for geographical reasons. Europe is our civilisational choice because we choose international law because we respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of each country because we choose human rights and freedoms and the rule of law, which are based on the European project and form the Bulgarian national ideals. The changed security environment poses a new way and the issue of building the capacity of our Armed Forces to be adequate to the risks. National security is guaranteed only as part of NATO's collective security system. Bulgaria is obliged to be a partner that can be relied on by fulfilling its commitments. We are all aware of the financial difficulties in recent years, but security has no price. Lack of sufficient resources is not an excuse. The Bulgarian army needs a reasonable and dignified budget and investments in defence are investments in the national sovereignty and calmness of citizens. [[Noise in BSP LB]] Bulgaria must adhere strictly to the commitments made by the NATO summit in Wales, expressing the hope that the MPs and the government will provide the necessary additional resources. Security costs money, but peace and freedom are priceless. Dear MPs, for more than 20 years at the centre of political debates in the country is the electoral legislation. We realize that we do not have two consecutive choices made under the same law. In order to achieve the sustainability of democratic tradition and electoral process, I initiated a national referendum on the electoral rights of citizens. The power of direct democracy is precisely that. We will create these norms, which are fixed not only by the will of the government, but also by the people. I am confident that direct democracy will strengthen the democratic value system of society, engage the potential of the nation to a much greater extent, make possible political decisions far more legitimate. Direct democracy can cure representative democracy. The aim of the referendum is to strengthen the multiparty system by preserving the interest of the parties as the winner of parliamentary democracy. I will exercise my constitutional right and initiate a national referendum on the electoral rights of Bulgarian citizens. The national referendum is agreed to be held together with the upcoming local elections. Let's work on it. Dear MPs, in the month of political consultations, we agreed that we should set ambitious but achievable goals. Let us unite around the achievement of four priority goals until Bulgaria takes over the Presidency of the European Union, which will motivate politicians, institutions and administration, and deepen the European integration of the country. The first goal is entry into Schengen. The second goal is entry into the transitional currency mechanism ERM II of the Eurozone. A third objective is entering the Single Supervisory Mechanism of the European Banking Union. The fourth objective is the activation of the European Energy Union in Bulgaria by achieving the criteria of at least three independent sources of gas, market liberalisation and the creation of an energy exchange for Southeast Europe. The achievement of these goals will create a qualitatively new environment, will raise the self-esteem and ambitions of the Bulgarians to forge our worthy place in the family of the European peoples. Let us give new impetus to integration processes and nationally responsible activities during the year. Let me summarize: there is a very meaningful work to be done. Let 2015 be a year of stability and reforms, a year of progress on national priorities. Thank you for your attention. I wish you a successful job! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. [[The President shall shake hands with the President of the National Assembly and the Vice-Presidents.]] Please, the cameras of the National Television and the microphones of the National Radio will be switched off. On behalf of a parliamentary group, the word wants Mr. Mikov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Dear MPs, good that the cameras are turned off so that the President does not hear, of course, and the Bulgarian citizens Dear MPs, there can be no consensus in a country where poverty is more and more harassing people! [[Applause from BSP LB.]] There can be no consensus when, in one country, and the President himself said just a moment ago, the economy had twice as much growth as last year, which was politically unstable. Such political stability is unnecessary for Bulgarian citizens, the Bulgarian economy and the prospects for Bulgaria. Rumor has it there is potential for political agreement. Perhaps there is potential for political deals behind the back of Bulgarian citizens. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] When the President goes to Wales with the office and makes commitments that are not made available to the National Assembly, to the Bulgarian citizens, there can be no consensus on these types of secret agreements! Dear Members of Parliament, the state must ensure justice and equality before the law, and on this point we all agree. However, there can be no rule of law that comes only from judicial reforms. There can be no rule of law when the supreme legislative body amends the laws according to the interests of business, lobbyists and other countries! [[Applause from BSP LB.]] There can be no rule of law when the Constitution is violated when the executive block the application of laws adopted by the National Assembly! There can be no rule of law when in separate ministries the failure to conduct public procurement becomes a practice for the service of specific business interests related to power! Dear MPs, the people are thirsty for justice, but do not see in today's environment realization and an attempt at justice. With regard to healthcare, today the National Assembly discusses how to wait for citizens to receive health services, even paying their health contributions. What reform in education, when the proposed changes in the legislation related to secondary education, provide for a new separation of the Bulgarian children of those who have and those who do not; those who can be in private schools and be assisted by the state and those whose parents wonder where to find the funds to dress them, let alone provide them with an opportunity for normal education in the 21st century. Dear MPs, the talk of consensus does not give rise to any confidence in the Bulgarian citizens. The consensus is becoming a deleted mantra of the transition, which increased inequalities, of the transition that brought injustice. And the Bulgarian citizens in the last elections showed clearly the half of them said: "We will not vote! The delusion that we have a wide party representation in today's parliament cannot change the reality that Bulgarian citizens do not trust the acts of power, including the laws we adopt. Absurdly sound the talk of economic development, of growth of 2 - 3% next year, pò next year and at the same time planned budget deficits of 2 billion per year, covered by new external debts. It is very nice that Bulgaria was a country with the lowest debt in the European Union, only the President who left did not comment on how this external debt was affected by the commitment of 16 billion. BGN, which in a scandalous way was adopted by the National Assembly and without any delay on the same day, without reading the transcripts sent for publication by the Bulgarian President. Where is the President's sincerity to the National Assembly?! The fact that they're broadcasting it on National Television won't give any more credibility to his fairy tales. Dear MPs, for BSP left Bulgaria has different goals than those the President draws. We want fairer pay of labour and fairer taxation in Bulgaria and we will continue to defend this position. We will demand a fairer treatment of the health of the Bulgarian citizen, not a new division of those who have money and those who are unable to heal themselves, because even neoliberal apologists cannot imagine how these hard neoliberal rules can be applied in the poorest country; for another education that enables Bulgarian citizens to develop the qualities of their children and not turn them into low-paid workers in the European Union. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Dear MPs, direct democracy is important, but the use of direct democracy for the realization of individual or group political goals makes it meaningless. This is what the President is proposing today, deluding that he has reached a consensus on holding a referendum along with the local elections. Such consensus, such consent at least on the part of BSP left Bulgaria does not exist and the truth must be told to the Bulgarian citizens! Because promises, delusions are part of the constantly generated distrust of the political system. Dear Members of Parliament, understanding that Bulgaria will be able to achieve economic development by means of EU funds is wrong. Bulgaria must develop its economic potential, must pursue a policy that will increase the growth of gross domestic product and European funds to be additional, added, building on in the different sectors. The wrong understanding that EU funds can solve the problems of the economy, the problems of education, the problems of health, is deeply wrong and pushes the country in another direction from what even Europe itself has as an understanding of the meaning of European funds. And because European funds are so important, why does no one comment on how many programs for this programming period have been delayed. Why, what are the reasons? [[Noise, lines and applause from GERB.]] What are the reasons? With 80% of programme approval achieved...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u49	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u50	...on regional development...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u51	Colleagues, order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u52	... Bulgaria still does not have an approved programme? What are the reasons for the delay at the time of the approval of these programmes? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] And Karayancheva's roars are in no way changing the facts. As far as energy is concerned, it is good to talk about diversification, liberalisation, energy efficiency. The truth is very different. The truth is that the policy in this sector will ultimately lead to an increase in prices for Bulgarian citizens and they felt it once again, they will feel it in the middle of the year again. Because, honourable MPs, it is nice to close the plant plants, which generate about 2 - 3% of the electricity in Bulgaria. But it is even more important to look for a fairer attitude when buying the electricity of Bulgarian energy favorites. Because when the president says that the energy problem is the state, why didn't the privatisation of the electricity distribution companies work? Why did Bulgaria sink into our sleep and energy last week before collapse in a statement by the Minister of Energy? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] After all, honourable MPs, it is good to talk about consensus, but it is even better to look at the problems of citizens, because they, sooner or later, the good foreigners in the Bulgarian language appreciate them. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u53	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the President of the Group Mr Lutvi Mestan has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms sees a lot of sanity in the idea of holding the month of the political consultations. Today, Mr. President sounded cheerful, optimistic. We have heard a lot of good intentions from him, and perhaps this is also natural... who else, if not the President, should sound cheerful and optimistic? Who else will charge the Bulgarian society with the necessary dose of optimism? But we are under the impression that Bulgarian society has long been tired of fairy tales that express good intentions. It is time to raise the big question: what changed from March 2014 to March 2015? In the name of what goals in the summer following the European elections came to a difficult agreement to move the country towards early parliamentary elections? I would like to recall this objective. A smooth transition to political stability, as a result of which there will be a favourable environment for the implementation of the key reforms Bulgaria needs. I think that this agreement, which was reached in consultation with him, had several elements. Firstly, do not repeat denied models of power and, secondly, really go to agreement without rematching. We expected today to hear the assessment of the Head of State whether these two elements, which are at the heart of the decision to hold early parliamentary elections, were implemented. The qualitative assessment of the DPS Parliamentary Group is that both conditions are not violated. We believe that this formula of power has already been denied by Bulgarian citizens, at least in this direction were the criticisms of the position at the time. We heard from Mr. President that we had discussed key reforms. Yes, it is true. However, in this management the word reform is becoming more stubbornly losing its own meaning and perhaps it is time to recall what is the dictionary article of the word "reform." It is a reconstruction, a change, a transformation of the elements of a system to introduce something new or, if something is not introduced, it increases the effectiveness of its functioning. The definition of operational objectives, the tasks of one ministry or another is not reform! When we hear yesterday with a very strong aplomb from the Minister of Health that the NRA will now inform Bulgarian citizens about their due health contributions, this is not a reform! This is an administrative procedure. If this is your understanding of reforms, we, for years, if the cabinet has such a life, will be satisfied with talking about reforms, without reforms. And in education, the debates on the major reform will have started if we have a clear awareness that the problem is in early school dropout. Until it is agreed that the problem of early dropout is solved by 100% covering all children, including those from Roma neighborhoods, in the forms of preschool training and education, we will not have done any reform! I want to say this even louder today! And I will know that something happens in education if the very good news about another new kindergarten opened in the center of Sofia or in the centers of other major cities is at least once combined with the news that kindergarten is opened and in the Sliven Roma quarter, where for 20 thousand. There aren't any kindergarten residents. This is the language of reform. This is the specific talk about reforms. We have also heard that there is a potential for agreement because severe political opposition has remained behind us. Excuse me, but this statement is at least inaccurate. Because the language of political dialogue, which comes from two of the ruling parties in the quadruple coalition, is anything but a language of political agreement. On the contrary, this is a vivid example of self-sustaining political opposition. It's the language of the suspension. Ladies and gentlemen, much more interesting is the issue from this point of view of the topics absent during these consultations. The strongest part of the absence of the most important topic is today's democratic power, is the formula of today's government democratic. The president is running away from this subject. Today's power is undoubtedly elected democraticly. However, the democracy of the procedure does not necessarily imply a democratic result. History remembers countless cases of established, including dictatorial regimes, with elections, even with direct democracy through referendums. If a government is not democratic, it cannot produce democracy. At the heart of any democracy is tolerance. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The political antonym of tolerance is the language of hate. In two of the parties of this ruling coalition we are constantly hearing the language of expulsion, the language of hatred. It is a positive fact that we have finally heard the Prime Minister Boyko Borisov on this topic. It was better for Mr. President to raise his voice against hate speech. The president is silent on this subject, he has kept it quiet, unfortunately, today. It is wonderful that he raised the question of one of the two very difficult foreign policy challenges for Bulgarian national security, he raised the question about Ukraine. But I expected to hear a comment on why the Forty-third National Assembly did not get the courage to hear the motion of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms [[the President signals that time has run out]] on a joint declaration by the forty-third parliament on the brutal murder of Russian politician-liberal Boris Nemtsov. [[Replys from the right.]] We hear shouts, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, If these voices were heard only by this party, Bulgarian Euro-Atlantism would not have a problem. However, the silent agreement with these proclamations is another key issue of this government and the President is obliged to express himself on this subject. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u55	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. Can we continue with the debates on the bill amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act? Previously, on behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group, Mr. Tsvetanov, Chairman of the Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that in today's speech of the President of the country, we should at least have had a little respect for the President's institution! It is unacceptable what we saw as behaviour on the left, as disrespect for the presidential institution and, of course, the President of the country was elected directly by the Bulgarian voters. Whether we like it or not, we must comply with what we have today as a presidential institution, and remember that precisely the presidential institution in the face of Bulgarian President Rosen Plevneliev had the complex task of drawing up official governments due to the lack of political consensus and the inability to form a parliamentary majority to support the Bulgarian government. That is why we must give what is due for these political consultations, which have been made with all parliamentary parties represented in today's Forty-third Parliament. I believe that each of us has contributed to actually have this tolerance, which enables the forty-third National Assembly to work, to be formed a parliamentary majority, which will make it possible for the Bulgarian government to work and return the country to the only possible path. Because there was talk about whether European funds are a guarantee of the country's prosperity. Ladies and gentlemen on the left, you know very well that if we do not have this infrastructure and we do not use this European solidarity, today our country would be even worse and we would have even more negative trends for high unemployment and policies that will drive us away from our European membership. I would like to say categorically that on topics such as education reforms, energy, the judiciary, in the security sector, we are achieving a public and political consensus in general, and we really need to stick to this constructive dialogue that enables us to solve the problems, not to deepen the problems that we have seen in the forty-second National Assembly. There is talk about how unemployment increases and nothing is done for certain settlements. Dear representatives from the left, you were the mandate holder and within nearly two years you had the opportunity to manage and actually provide what you declared at the beginning of your term, and you declared the creation of another 250 thousand jobs. [[Applause from GERB.]] Just to remind you that you actually increased unemployment by another 40 thousand and did not contribute to anything good for the Bulgarian voters and citizens who really wanted to have their perspective. [[Relations from the National Representative Maya Manolova.]] To remind you that within nearly a year and more we had metal enclosures, and you wanted to defend this power at all costs, but this did not correspond to people's expectations. You know very well that what... [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u57	Colleagues, please, no tossing from place. [[BSP LB.]] Do not prevent a representative of a parliamentary group from finishing its statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u58	The only thing I want to you on the left, at least behave what GERB's parliamentary group has to show for your leader when it speaks, and your parliamentary group chairman. [[Noise, excitement and lines from BSP LB.]] I think this is normal and everyone here can express their different opinions, not call out from the room and show exactly the intolerance that each of us is talking about. What I would like to state categorically is that the GERB Parliamentary Group will actively participate in a constructive dialogue with all parliamentary parties for the implementation of the real political consensus and, of course, opportunities that we can provide for the implementation of these reforms, for which you also constantly alert and want to be part of them. I would like to thank those who are actively involved in all the debates and votes that are being made in the current Parliament. I can clearly say and remind you that the conduct of the today's parliamentary group of GERB is very different from what we observed in the first term, because we were a newly formed parliamentary group, for the first time we entered the governance, in the executive power, but what we want to show today as a mentality of conduct is to be really true Europeans and let each of us learn a lesson from our conduct, to limit this aggression, which can take us away from what each of us wants to realize. We would like to state categorically that we are working towards public support for real reforms. We also work for public support in the local authorities because we know that without local and executive power there will be no prosperity if this dialogue is not available and if there is no constructive dialogue on the ground. That is why I am addressing you today from this parliamentary tribune and I would like to call you: in the local elections that are just a few days away in Sarnitsa, simply provoke your voters to go and exercise their right to vote, because you have shown very clearly what your assessment of political life is in a municipality in which local elections are currently taking place. There, all the major political formations that raised their candidates received serious public support. We also rely on your 27 votes you received at Sarnitza. [[Applause from GERB.]] Let this be your change, but I sincerely wish you to have a more serious presence in the local government, because with such presence I do not want the left not in Bulgaria. We want to have a left and right, to have a centre so that we can actually in dialogue and in constructiveism solve the problems that we have today. Thank you very much. I hope that, when the President of the country comes, we will actually express support for the presidential institution and, of course, for the person who is in this position today. Thank you. Good luck. [[Applause from GERB and the Reformation Bloc.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u59	Can we move on to the debate? Yeah. There are registered MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u60	Time out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u61	Holiday's at 11:30, guys. The word is Mr. Valentin Pavlov of the Reformation Bloc, after which Mrs. Maya Manolova. [[Voices: "Oooh!" by GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u62	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We have heard different opinions on the proposed Draft for amendment and supplement of the Insurance Act. I'll be as brief as I can, and I'll focus on a few major points of it. Firstly, it is extremely important to return the contractual start between the word organizations and the National Health Insurance Fund when determining the methodology for the valuation and payment of medical activities. This will, of course, strengthen the participation of word organizations in determining the qualitative criteria for carrying out medical activities and tracking the results of the treatment. Why, honourable Members on the left, didn't you return this contractual beginning when you had the opportunity? Secondly, no less important is the recovery of arbitration committees, which will consider the opinions of the verified medical aid performers in the cases of detected violations of the LDCs, which will enable the cases to be discussed by practitioners in the relevant areas, which will result in real results of quality checks on medical activities. I ask again: why, honourable Members on the left, did you not restore the arbitration committees when you had the opportunity? Last but not least, fellow Members of the National Assembly, this is control. That control we're all talking about, but no one dares to carry it out. That control, which is laid down in the changes of the SCI and will be carried out by joint checks of the regional health insurance funds, the Executive Agency of the Medical Audit (Medical Audit), the regional health inspections and the word organizations to comply with the precisely regulated rules. The control that will be carried out by patients with their satisfaction. On precise and clear criteria will be evaluated both single offices and large hospitals. That control that will lead to the termination of contracts between the NHIF and the medical institutions. Why, honourable colleagues on the left, did you not introduce this control? The answer to this and to other questions that you have asked is only one question that requires courage. The courage to name problems with their real names. The courage to be able to terminate the contract between hospitals and NHIF when there is a negative assessment by the patient. They heard from this tribune and many questions raised by the opposition regarding the draft law. Would there be so many questions if these weren't reforms? If that wasn't a change, would they be so questioning? Yes, colleagues, these are part of the reforms. The question was also asked: with what will the minister remain in history? Mr. Minister, you will remain in history as one who is not afraid, has the courage to bring things to an end. You will remain in history as a minister who knows the problems that have the solution to these problems. [[Applause by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] We from the Reformation Block will support the bill at first reading, because the overall philosophy of this change is to pay and evaluate the result, and not just the activity, because the patient is at the centre of the reform and at the centre of the system. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u63	Thank you, Dr. Pavlov. - What's the line? I won't. Mrs. Maya Manolova has a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u64	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Moskov! After yesterday's debate, you chose a favorite quote, a favorite phrase, pompous enough as you appreciate your actions, namely a general change in the health care system. Today I will offer you another phrase that will hardly become your favorite, but it is true, and this is my assessment of the Bill you are proposing. With this bill you do nothing about reform, do absolutely nothing! Because you're adjusting the model to money, not the money to the model. You are making an attempt to modify a failed model by stacking it to the 3 billion in healthcare instead of suggesting how these 3 billion to make the model good for Bulgaria. A "good" means accessible and quality healthcare. In fact, you adjust the model to money in the easiest way by limiting citizens' access to healthcare. This is exactly what you achieve by dividing the package that is assumed by the Cashier into a basic and additional one. In practice, you divide healthcare for poor and health care for rich people. Because, as is clear from your explanation, the money from the Health Insurance Fund will only be enough for the diseases of the basic package, and for the diseases of the supplementary package, if you have the misfortune to get sick of them, you will wait for the treatment or pay. If you have money, you will pay and you will heal; if you do not have money you will wait. Here comes your favorite idea of waiting lists, with which you will surely remain in history. But if you think you're a new passerby, I'll let you down. I will remind you that there were waiting lists before 1989 in the Mototechnics. There you make a payment and wait for a car. Now you're making a health contribution and waiting for a health care service. But if it wasn't fatal for the car, the health care service might turn out to be because it's about health care. In addition, once upon a time the contribution could benefit the grandchildren, and now there is no way that will happen. [[Radio and applause by BSP LB.]] In addition, your proposal with the waiting lists of those who have paid their health contributions, I think there is also a problem with the Constitution. If you and I pay our health contributions, but you get sick of a disease included in the basic package, and I get sick of one of those from the extra package, you will be treated free of charge, and I will either pay or wait. In my opinion, it is said in the Constitution that citizens have equal rights, and if we are to pay our contributions, we must use the health service equally. Furthermore, I really do not understand how splitting the package into a major and additional health care? You said it would improve the health status of citizens. In my opinion, this can happen if health care becomes more accessible and more quality. We have already talked about access and about quality here we come to the most ridiculous texts in the Bill, according to which you introduce as a quality criterion the level of satisfaction or dissatisfaction of the patient. Excuse me, this way after the introduction of the voter purchase, you are entering the purchase of patients. Because yes, they will pay to have satisfaction or not, and to terminate the contracts of competitors...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u65	The time of the group is up, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u66	... And one last sentence. I will support your idea within six months for citizens to pay their health contributions, but I will also suggest another idea -- and Citizen Vladislav Goranov -- to pay back the Health Insurance Fund, namely this 1 billion. 400 million that took away two years ago in health care. I think this will make the changes you're trying to make easier. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u67	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Lachezar Ivanov is not in the hall, Darin Dimitrov is also not in the hall. Are there any other MPs from parliamentary groups who have time? [[The National Representative Darin Dimitrov enters the Chamber.]] Mr Darin Dimitrov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u68	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I listened with attention to the statements of my opposition colleagues. Many of them had quite constructive suggestions that made a good impression on me. Unfortunately, I don't know why you see the glass always half empty. I know it's hard to criticize, but believe me, it's much better to say the good things about the Bill. So I prefer to say some good things and some other remarks on it. Yeah, it's good to get the contract start back, though it's hard. We remember how difficult negotiating was years ago. I was also a member of the board of doctors' union, negotiating went for months. It is difficult, but it is democratic, and in democracy there will be no easy work. There will be negotiations at prices, in volumes, in methods of valuation, in sanctions. I think that's a good direction. With regard to arbitration, they're a good idea, even though we survived them too. It was hard when most arbitrage ended with 3:3. Now with the changes in this Law, there is no way. The problem will be for the Medical Union, because doctors involved in the arbitrations themselves need to be well prepared. This means that the Medical Union should organise courses for doctors who are in arbitration committees, not to mention doctors who are not in medical arbitration, but in financial arbitration. Things are even more serious there. It is difficult to find doctors for arbitration because colleagues are very busy, and really their preparation must be very good to be able to oppose experts from the Casa and RZI. With regard to joint control, this is also a good idea for joint control of NHIF, medical audit, RZI and the Bulgarian Medical Union. I think it would be better to assess the mistakes and problems in health care. With regard to the quality of medical care, the regulations will be very important here, because the competition between medical institutions is great and is getting bigger and sharper. This may lead to incorrect complaints from patients treated in one hospital and another hospital. In terms of packages. We understand that the base package guarantees the full treatment of all socially significant diseases. Interesting is the extra package. We're talking about waiting lists. And now there's a waiting list. I would like to call on you that there should be no waiting list in a health care facility where doctors and O.R.s are only available because of the funding from the Health Insurance Fund. We need to process this. With regard to the increase in social security contributions. Yeah, it's a little 5%, but do you know how long we've been fighting? Personally, I have witnessed a minimum of 15-20 years to talk about this matter. I think it's a small victory for Mr. Minister because it can really be 5%, but it is a victory, Mr. Minister. My fellow Members, it is my opinion that in order to ensure quality healthcare, we must give a real assessment of the doctor's work. That's why we have to think about the future. If we have a real assessment of the work of medical professionals, then we will be able to determine precisely the funding and how to determine the real financing of the work in healthcare. Then we can now require good quality medical services. This is really what I think is the future, and we have to work for it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u69	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Lachezar Ivanov has not taken the floor from the enrolled MPs so far. If he's in the towers, I'd like him to come in. Until then, Minister Moskov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This is the second time I've taken the floor. I hope that then the formal voting procedure will follow. I take the floor to counter a statement that is completely false. Here it was said: there was a wrong model with which the government and the majority wanted something to adjust. To recall that the health insurance model, as it is as philosophy, works in each of the countries in Europe and in the world, with very few exceptions and works well. It is not the model that is wrong, but the way in which for many years it has been distorted and applied lobbyist, speculatively and without any consideration of the possible financial resources that society can allocate. This is what we are doing at the moment to bring the model to its meaning, to bring back the Health Insurance Fund not as a defender of the interests of a particular medical establishment, but of the interests of the health insured. I am truly astonished at the BSP because there have already been concrete proposals from MPs for discussion between first and second reading for an even more serious role of patients on this bill. In essence, we are turning two million Bulgarian citizens who have been hospitalized last year into Casa controllers because the Casa is theirs, it is not mine, it is not the state's. And to call this a joke, a popularist and so on, it really is either a misunderstanding or extreme lobbying, but not for the benefit of patients, but for the benefit of those who drain the Casa not because of patients, but because of their own pockets.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u71	That's right! [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u72	This changes, changes the basics, the root of the bill is this change. The case on behalf of the patient under the best conditions for him negotiates and buys from the performers of medical activities and medical activities services, which was philosophy and is the philosophy of the health insurance model in each country. The fact that we have turned the Cashier into a bill-payer is a mistake not of the model, but of the way it is applied here in Bulgaria. I don't want to go back and say who applied this model for the first time. [[Noise and lines from KB.]] I thank each one of the MPs and each of the parliamentary groups, which declares support for the Bill submitted by the government. Many reasonable proposals have been heard, including by the opposition. I hope that in a constructive conversation and in the Committee on Health, we will come to an improvement in the texts. I ask you for the philosophy, that the system must be fair, that is, to extend the basis of paying, to make it clear that the one who pays will have different rights than the one who does not pay, that the Cashier must return to its functions, that drug policy must meet the criteria for drug policy anywhere in the other European countries, and not the interests of pharmaceutical companies, that the contractual start must be respected, because when we say that someone qualifies the Bill as bad, we have to say that conditional organisations, patient organisations, medical advice label it as good. Then let the MP not allow himself to speak on behalf of the people. Please support the bill! And thank you again! [[(Applause from GERB and shouts: "You've got it! " (Applause from RB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u73	Thank you, Minister Moskov. Are there any Members of Parliament willing to take part in the debate? I won't. The debate is closed. I invite the Members of the House to vote. The Quaestors, please do the same to your colleagues in the Chamber. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act. They voted 142 MPs: for 100, against 42, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]] For a negative vote, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! These applauses are an expression of support for what is happening in health care, and it is that since 1999 the healthcare funds officially given have increased by exactly 1004%. 47% is paid out of these funds. Today, with this vote, welcomed by applause from the right, you are actually applauding for the Bulgarian citizens, in addition to health insurance contributions, to pay extra. You applaud for this so that Bulgarian citizens can wait and the administration to decide whether they are sick so that the state and the Health Insurance Fund can take over their health care or pay. You applaud for once again to divide people into those who have the means to pay for health, and those who will not be treated and will die. Calling this a healthy reform is cynicism! These are changes that deepen differences in access to health care according to the property situation of citizens. That is why I voted against.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u75	Second negative vote, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u76	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! I voted against the proposed amendments to the Law because this step deepens the shortcomings of the reform of health care undertaken by the same party, which Mr. Moskov is a minister today. They are taking a correctional exam in front of Bulgarian citizens right now because years ago they created such a legal framework of Bulgarian healthcare, which led to the need for this reform. The question stands if there is a moral right to this party, which is now under the reformer's block...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u77	Disguise!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u78	...does this party have the moral right to deal with this question a second time?! I won't, Mr. Moskov! I won't, because you're continuing the same philosophy. You do not change what the citizens are dissatisfied with. You are deepening the defects of this system. [[Mister Peter Moskov is coming out.]] You make the health insurance system itself discriminate against citizens. This was highlighted not only by my colleagues from the Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria, but also by colleagues from other political groups. This type of discrimination is absolutely unacceptable because it violates the constitutional requirements for universality, accessibility and freeness of health. Colleagues on the right make the Bulgarian people pay extra for healthcare, line up in front of hospitals and make it sicker. That's what you're suggesting. This is not reform, this is the opposite of reform! [[Single applause from BSP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u79	Is there a third negative vote? I won't. Before we go to the next point, I would like to congratulate the young people from Stara Zagora who are guests of the National Assembly and observe our work from the balcony of the plenary. [[Applause.]] Coming up next: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE PRIVIZATION LAW AND THE ADVISION CONTROL. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Reports have been presented. We will first hear the report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Mr. Kanev, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u80	♪ I can't believe under a bill amending the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act, No 502-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 February 2015. At its regular meeting on 18 February 2015, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Economy "Ljubchen Petrov" Deputy Minister, Valentin Gruev "Director of the Directorate of Industrial Relations and Government of State Participation" and Lachezar Borisov "Head of the Department in the same Directorate; "Privatization Agency and Post-Privatization Control" "Emil Karanikol" Executive Director, and "Rusi Statkov" member of the Supervisory Board. The draft amendment to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control was drawn up in connection with the received Motivated Opinion C (2013) 1550/21.03.2013 of the European Commission under infringement procedure No 2012/422, concerning the provision of § 8 of the Transitional provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control (inc., SG No. 72, 2006, as amended. No. 65 of 2008 and No. 18 from 2010) which does not comply with the principles of free movement of capital and freedom of establishment laid down in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Paragraph 8 provides for a right of the State, in the event of obligations under privatisation contracts not fulfilled within the time limit, to establish a legal mortgage and to impose precautionary measures on the property of the privatisation company. The adopted legislative decision is dictated for reasons of optimization of post-privatization control and of realization of the objectives set out in art. 2, para. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, for transparent and cost-effective privatisation in terms of equity of investors. In the reasoned opinion received, the European Commission maintains its position that § 8's provision violates the interests of European Union investors. According to the legal analysis made by the European Commission, with the application of these restrictive provisions Bulgaria violates the rights enjoyed by investors from the European Union under art. 49 and 63 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as it provides for the possibility, in the event of non-compliance with the obligations under a privatisation contract, that the State may establish a mortgage and impose other safeguard measures, not only on the property of the buyer, but also on the property of the privatisation company. The provisions of § 8, para. 1 and 2 the possibility for the State to secure its claims by establishing a mortgage on the assets of the privatisation company because of liabilities of a person other than the owner of the privatisation company affects the economic interests of the other shareholders and violates their right of establishment and restricts the free movement of capital. At the same time, investors from the European Union who have acquired a controlling share of a privatisation company in Bulgaria may, in the event of non-compliance with a privatisation obligation by another shareholder, be prevented from taking management decisions and dispose of the company's assets. The European Commission considers that the provision cannot be regarded as an appropriate and proportionate measure adopted in relation to a legitimate objective of common interest. On this basis, it is concluded that Bulgaria has failed to fulfil its obligations under art. 49 and 63 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and invites the Party, within two months of the date of receipt of the reasoned opinion, to take the necessary measures to remedy discrepancies with European law. The arguments of the Bulgarian side in defence of the current provision of § 8 have not been accepted as justified by the European Commission. With the adoption of the Bill, the non-compliance found by the European Commission with the requirements of European Union law will be removed and the infringement procedure initiated against Bulgaria. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, No 502-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 February 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u81	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. We will now hear the opinion of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Mr. Georg Georgiev will report it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u82	Thank you, Madam President. "COMMODITY" on a bill amending the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act, No 502-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 February 2015. At a meeting held on 18 March 2015, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds examined the Draft Law amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control submitted by the Council of Ministers. In the meeting of the Commission took part: Mr. Luben Petrov, Deputy Minister of Economy, Mrs. Desislava Georgieva, Head of the Department of Establishment and Services, Directorate of Technical Harmonization and Consumer Policy at the Ministry of Economy, and Mrs. Emil Karanikov, Executive Director of the Privatization Agency and Post-Privatization Control. I. The draft Law amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control was drawn up in relation to received on 21 March 2013. Motivated Opinion C (2013) 1550 of the European Commission under infringement procedure No 2012/4002. The reasoned opinion concerns the provision of § 8 of the Transitional Provisions to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, which, according to the European Commission, does not comply with the principles of free movement of capital laid down in the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU (TFEU) (Art. 63 TFEU) and freedom of establishment (Art. 49 TFEU). The arguments presented by the Bulgarian side in defence of the current provision were not accepted as justified by the European Commission. II. Paragraph 8 of the Transitional Provisions to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control provides for the right of the State to establish a legal mortgage and to impose protective measures on the property of privatization companies when obligations under privatisation contracts are not met within a period of time. In a sacred position repeated in the Official Notification letter C (2012) 3366 final of 31 May 2012, the European Commission states that the provision of § 8 introduces a special state law which violates the interests of European Union investors does not meet the requirements for proportionality and is inappropriate for achieving the objectives of the Privatization Act and post-privatization control to create conditions for transparent and cost-effective privatisation in terms of equity of investors. III. The proposed bill provides for the annulment of Paragraph 8 of the Transitional Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, which aims to remove the infringement found by the European Commission and to achieve compliance with the requirements of European Union law in the area of the free movement of capital and the freedom of establishment and the infringement procedure initiated against Bulgaria to be terminated. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 9 votes for the Privatization Act, No 502-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 February 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u83	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Debates are open. Are there any MPs who would like to speak? Yeah. However, this will happen after the break. [[Laughter, excitement.]] I'm calling a 30-minute recess. After the break we continue from 12:00 with speeches by Mr. Slavi Binev and Mr. Dimitar Bajraktarov. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u84	Members of the National Assembly, please enter the Chamber. Break time's up. The Quaestors, with your cooperation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u85	Procedure, Madam President!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u86	I assume that by the procedure you propose, there will be a name check. [[Heckling]] Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u87	Madam President, I am confident that the interest of the Members of the National Assembly in this extremely important issue will bring them back to this House. When you consider that there is sufficient quorum to take a decision, I propose that we take the following decision: there should be a legitimate representative in this House of the importer of this very important question, as there are three problems without an answer to which the National Assembly cannot take a valid decision. The first question is the introduction of the Council of Ministers, when it adopted this Law, was it aware of the interpretation of the decision of the Supreme Court of Cassation of the Republic of Bulgaria of 15 June 2010 on the nature of privatisation transactions? Secondly, without which we cannot make a decision: is there not a single case in the dialogue with the European Commission sufficiently competent that there has been a ban on the property of the entire undertaking in Bulgarian practice so far?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u88	You're getting to the point, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u89	No, someone has to come and answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u90	I understand your offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u91	Finally, Madam President, someone has to answer: if a lobbying order is executed, and it is to cancel § 8...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u92	If that's not the point, say hello.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u93	Absolutely to the point, to come a man who can answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u94	We get it. When he gets here, you'll ask him the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u95	Listen to me, Madam President. Because he canceled §8 of the Council of Ministers [[the President signals that time has run out]] and remain in § 11d and § 11e which have the same power as § 8 only for privatisation transactions at another time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u96	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Then you will take the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u97	Will a man come who can answer these questions?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u98	They're here waiting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u99	Let them come.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u100	Mr. Slavi Binev has the floor for speech. [[Heckling]] Mr. Binev, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u101	Thank you, Madam President. [[Extreme lines from SG of BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u102	Mr. Bojinov, a disciplined group, do the same for yours. Let's hear from Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u103	Once again, Madam President, colleagues! The Law, which we are now erasing, provides for the law of the State in the event of failure to comply with the obligations under privatisation contracts to establish a legal mortgage and to impose protective measures on the property of the privatized company. Since § 8 does not correspond to the points laid down in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, we must remove it. But by removing it, we deprive the state of a defense mechanism against incorrect privatizers. I believe that the minister should propose additional measures to protect the interest of the state, respectively the taxpayers. The quoted alternative to § 8........................................................................................ After the annulment of § 8 a number of legal claims will be filed for dropping the imposed collateral. Why is such a legal text adopted in the first place that is contrary to European law?! Why hasn't this been noticed earlier, and we are waiting for the European Commission to intervene? Isn't that actually the job of the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control so far? One more question I have to answer to is, as I see, exciting absolutely everyone: will not the people who have made this mistake be held responsible? Won't it be held responsible for the mistakes that have been made once and for all? I believe that the minister should offer the opportunity to protect the interests of the state and the taxpayers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u104	Thank you, Mr. Binev. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Stoilov, before the speech Mr. Kanev will make a procedure for admission to the Chamber to satisfy the request of Mr. Bozhinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u105	I propose a procedure for admission in the hall on the grounds of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted: Lyuben Petrov This is the Directorate of Industrial Relations and Government of State Participation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u106	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedure for admission in this Chamber. Colleagues, it is correct to allow representatives on behalf of the importer to answer the questions that are being asked. 72 MPs voted: 68 against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making my statement taking into account the importance of the subject we are discussing. It is complicated probably for many of the MPs, as it intertwines economic and legal problems. There's almost a 10-year development in time. As you have understood, there is an opinion on behalf of the European Commission which contests the said paragraph in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act. But I also stand with a certain excitement because some of the texts were submitted years ago at my suggestion, along with Mr. Yordan Tsonev. They were provoked as a result of a political discussion that we at BSP had and it was found that many of the privatisation contracts subsequently had significant failures. At the same time, when the Law on Privatization was adopted, the necessary guarantee mechanisms were not provided to protect the interests of the seller, i.e. the state and the whole society. Therefore, initially in 2006 the possibility to establish a legal mortgage was envisaged to ensure the fulfillment of the promises made by the privatizers. I would like to emphasise that it is not about any new obligations, as the contracts must be fulfilled as they are signed by both parties. And here everyone should know that no one intervened in changing the content of the contracts between a seller and a buyer. Only, albeit later, but in accordance with the principles of law, in order to protect precisely those interests that I am talking about, legal mortgages and other collateral are set up to stimulate in good faith the execution of obligations undertaken in privatisation contracts. I want to tell you what the financial result of these measures is. At certain times, there was hesitation, they were changed, but from 2006 to 2010, the state was able to raise around 500 million. BGN, with around 200 million are real financial revenues, other payments are with the accepted compensatory instruments. GERB has continued this policy and the last few years have been further collected, according to my data, 214 million. BGN, with 80% of them being the result of cancellations now § 8. And to complete the picture, let me tell you what's coming. At present, there are mortgages that provide the claims of the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control for more than 120 million. lv. If you vote today for the annulment of § 8, we voluntarily refuse to seek these funds, and to expect that they will be paid without such a guarantee mechanism, I think it will be the manifestation of an utterly unjustified naiveness. Now you will ask: well, what you are saying is so, but what decision can we take when a procedure is being initiated by the European Commission which is challenging the discussion paragraph? Parliaments are changing, politics is continuing. In the past the National Assembly, the then government, again on a proposal from the Economic Ministry, submitted the exact same bill. He was once again supported by the Economic Commission. It has cost me and several people a great deal of effort not to allow this to be a final decision in plenary. It turns out that in all its contradictions, in the past the National Assembly has had people who are aware of the interests of the state, deepening on legal and economic issues, and today this momentum is again being imposed and we are on the verge of approving this text. I therefore address all MPs who are conscious of the Bulgarian interests, I turn to all lawyers to realize that Bulgaria is able to have an equal dialogue with the European Commission. I believe that even if we appear before the Court of Justice in Luxembourg, if the position is defended by prepared lawyers, it has a chance to succeed, but at least we can make a change in this text instead of dropping it. It is argued here that, you see, the interests of majority owners were affected because, due to the failure of minority shareholders, collateral was provided. If anyone knows one such case, let them come out and report it. There are representatives of the Ministry of Economy, the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control here, let them come and say, are there any cases when such mortgages damage majority shareholders in companies? The European Commission is also attacking us on another ground that the measure is disproportionate. Why is it disproportionate? Because it affected the interests of large investors who thus could not justify their investments and manage companies effectively. But we have not for a reason foreseen these burdens to affect not only the property of the buyer but also the property of the acquired company. So did Bulgaria not in the last two decades become the champion of legislative and any other circumvention of legislation?! You know some of these notorious investors who don't have capital, but they do, and if we somehow put a ban and burdens on their property, what will the state get tomorrow? They will sell in part what they bought, and in the end the assets will still be for them and the liabilities will be for everyone else. It is therefore intended to prevent this circumvention from taking place, that measures affect the property of the buyer, in this case a legal person, since they do not buy as a natural person. They are physically rich, and as legal entities are often very poor. But these poor legal entities buy a lot of appetizing companies that are rich. During these years, examples are no exception. They even, sadly, began to receive the pandemic of mass practice, or to spill and close certain enterprises, or to embezzle what was received against a failure to fulfil the good promises that were made when they were acquired at affordable prices. For this reason, we must not allow this to happen. Why did Parliament with common agreement support the need to take additional legislative measures regarding the bankruptcy of CCB? In order not to be able to carry out subsequent disposals in order for the Deposit Guarantee Fund to determine a temporary trade union, and this Bill is facing similar problems for the protection of property in the interests of society, but it is proposed that the reverse measure be removed from all previous obligations. Where is the correlation between these two approaches? This precisely shows that this measure by the European Commission is probably imposed after active lobbying by the owners of such companies who have found the channels and because of the inherent inactivity of the authorities in Bulgaria or with insufficient capacity of those who need to form a position, has been able to move to the phase in which we are currently looking for a solution. Because some of these people, called foreign investors, have already acquired the nickname of robbers. They are often registered in offshore areas. These are planted persons related to Bulgarian and other economic interests with unclear economic capacity. They come as some outside benefactors, acquire assets, and then we have to pay the bills. How long is this job gonna last?! Until everything is finally ruined! And here in the morning we're listening again to some speeches about economic growth, which, by no means know where it's going to come from, for which some benefactors will come and still help us solve our own issues. As long as we don't solve these questions, there's nowhere to wait for salvation! On this text, we will vote against the arguments put forward, because there are almost no arguments for its support. However, I would like to point out to you that if a majority is formed for its support, we will be looking for a solution, not for dropping out, but for correcting the text, that is to say, to provide that these collateral can be imposed in the event of default of buyers who own less than 50% of the company's capital. In this direction, the amendment must be made in order to introduce an exception, providing that, in the event of default by buyers holding less than 50 percent of the privatisation company, the Agency is not entitled to impose collateral on the assets of the privatisation company. Although is there any serious firm involved in privatisation without doing the so-called "due diligences" -- that is to say to fully examine the state of the company?! Because in many cases it is about obligations of subsequent buyers. I will illustrate it to be understandable to more people: if you have a mortgage house and sell it, does that mean that the new owner is released from the mortgage? In law acts the principle that what is bought and sold goes with all the assets, with all the burdens that accompany it. So whoever bought it knows very well what they're buying, and there's no reason to do it hit, or as there's a saying suitable for the case. These people haven't been blindfolded, but they're comfortable saying that if you see, they need a measure that they didn't take. They have not taken over it, but when they buy a company from the one who has failed to fulfil its obligations, it must be known that they are subject to all the rights and obligations with which this company is operating. The other thing that can be foreseen is a transitional regime. Because if now simply falls out of § 8, I even assume that, with the active law firms, those to whom the measure of § 8 has been applied will start to sue the State for damages, as the ground has been exhausted and they will say, "There was no reason for us to create such burdens. They may even require that they be paid for this whole exercise. So with two or three provisions we can get out of the situation, but it is very revealing. I therefore believe that in this National Assembly, we should take this seriously. I've said it several times so far, but unfortunately, I don't see the results. A national majority must be formed in this Parliament, which should have economic, legal and social arguments to conduct a policy that is in the interest of economic development and in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. Otherwise, we will be thrown with all kinds of bills here, all kinds of lobbyists will be running through our ministries and the European Commission, and Bulgarian citizens will be under the impression that we are extras in the European Union, waiting for some fund to transfer the funds to them, to be spent again in the benefit of some groups and not in the interest of the majority of citizens. Here, this is the Bill. It brings us before the much larger theme of § 8, which now, here, somehow, and without particular excitement, must be supported and rejected by the Law. I therefore call on you not to support this bill. If it is to be tabled with these corrections and really show that we are ready to continue the dialogue with the European Commission at the same time, that we are responding to the problem, but we are not naive people to say that you see, under the slogan for the free movement of capital in Bulgaria, any abuse that Bulgarian citizens will willingly continue to pay with their misery! Thank you. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a speech, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, the bill in question is indeed extremely important and at the same time matter is quite complex. I am convinced that not all colleagues are aware of exactly what is going on with the annulment of § 8 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act. Mr. Stoilov, I fully share what you have said so far, with some exceptions. I'll explain the things I don't share purely pragmatically. Colleagues, the subject of privatization is an extremely vulnerable subject. But here we have to say that over the years we have witnessed not the purchase of Bulgarian enterprises and Bulgarian capacities, but the donation of such and of looting. That's the one thing we're different from. In fact, for many of these enterprises nothing has been paid at all. It's a fact! On the other hand, much of the funds that are being collected, honourable Members, from privatisation, go to the Silver Fund. In fact, today we do not just have to protect the national interest, we have to protect the interest of our mothers and fathers. The complete annulment of § 8 means total national irresponsibility by all of us This means leaving the Agency for post-privatization control without any mechanism for implementing one. Yes, privatization is over, but the process of post-privatization control is not over. In fact, at first reading only, I hold before me and the position of the Privatisation Agency, which fully shares what I am saying to you today, what my colleague Yanaki Stoilov said at first reading, with the cancellation of § 8 we will lose about 200 million. lv. I believe that Bulgaria is not so rich as to give up 200 million. lv. Yes, undoubtedly, the wording of § 8 contains violations of two articles of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, but that does not mean that we cannot make appropriate adjustments to avoid the violation of these two articles and, at the same time, protect our national interest. We think this is the right approach. Colleagues, I ask you to take this very seriously because, again, there is a correct solution, but it is not in the complete and complete annulment of § 8 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Privatization Act and post-privatization control. Moreover, I am even a little disappointed because it was appropriate for the Ministry to present at least a financial justification to this Bill what it would cost us to repeal this § 8. There isn't one. Yes, absolutely real is the danger of raining down cases. Another question is whether these claims will be respected in court or not. However, there is a real, interpretive judgment that we should not reject just like that. I will provide my fellow Members with this interpretive decision to get acquainted, because there are things that we need to clarify. Actually, this isn't about trades, and you know it, Mr. Stoilov, right? [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] That's right! The issue is extremely serious, extremely important. Again, there are two elements here. The first element is that we need to protect the state interest, and the second element that this money by law goes to the Silver Fund to support the pension system, which means to help our mothers and fathers. We are responsible for filling in this Silver Fund in this way by means of proper privatisation and effective post-privatization control. Colleagues, I ask you to really take responsibility to make the right decision as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the people representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u111	Mr. President, honourable Members, a complex case is put in question by the Law in question. The previous speakers explained much of the legal and factual details relating to this specific guarantee. I would like to highlight this. It is certainly that we must look for a balanced solution. It is undeniable that the collateral that has been set up so far is in favour of the stability and correctness of the implementation of the privatisation contract. I stress that we must take into account the following: these are collaterals. These collaterals should guarantee the Bulgarian state as a seller that the conditions under the privatisation contract will be met. Probably for this reason, colleague Bajraktarov, and the Privatization Agency, and the Ministry of Economy, cannot give a numerical indicator of specific amounts because these are collaterals that guarantee, for example, the preservation of jobs, the preservation of the subject of activity. All other conditions under the Privatization Act and post-privatization control, respectively under the contract, should be implemented over time. Has the Bulgarian state overshadowed with this guarantee? In view of the findings of the vices in the privatisation process, I will not enter into comments and description in detail. Yes, perhaps the Bulgarian state, according to its negative experience, has at one point resorted to a more intense way to protect its interests as a seller. As you comment that there is also a caselaw in the case, I allow myself to remind all lawyers colleagues that, according to the constant caselaw, it is assumed that the parties to privatisation contracts in these cases are equal entities, i.e. they act equally. Therefore, the Supreme Administrative Court refuses to regard the acts in privatisation proceedings as individual administrative acts. The court accepts that this is the will of one party.. a seller, which is the Bulgarian state at the moment. I'll also say something about the mortgage. All my colleagues know that the mortgage is real collateral. The mortgage is a burden on a particular real estate. I stress this in order to take this into account. The majority of privatisation contracts have as their object no properties, they have shares or company shares of up to recently state-owned companies. In this sense, we would say that we do not have a direct link between the subject matter of the privatisation transaction and a particular asset of the property of the company, the real estate on which the legal mortgage was subsequently entered. Yes, it is legal because the law has given the Bulgarian state the opportunity as a seller to use this, I would say, a more economical procedural method. It is possible that the Bulgarian state as a counterparty and, in view of the fact that it regulates its activities by means of a specific law, has actually gone beyond the subject of the privatisation contract. I will also stress here that the privatisation contract itself is a consensual, bilateral relationship, i.e. the two sides have agreed. If the privatizer does not want to give such collateral through a legal mortgage of property, which he will acquire, he will not conclude the privatisation contract in question. But it's also true. It is true that in practice, the privatisation authority should always prefer and withdraw the guarantees to be, first, real and second, first and foremost, on the part of the buyer, both reserve and ultimately resort to collateral through the assets of the privatisation company. I took the liberty of making all these arguments, not to bore you, but to show at what, I would say, complex and controversial legal situation we should take the current decision. I can share because I am not a member of the committees that have discussed the Bill, my vision and my opinion. It is certainly that we must make a balanced decision. It is certain that we must comply with the regulations of the European Commission in this regard. But it would be nice to do them, I wouldn't say... I would just say: we need to implement them creatively and properly, that is, to protect the rights of third party shareholders or partners who are not parties to the privatisation contract, respectively, have not been involved in the privatisation procedure, but without reducing the volume of collateral and demand in this guarantee, which is particularly specific. I will vote for the first reading, with regard to the statements of the previous speakers that they will propose not the absolute dropout but the amendments in the norm of § 8, I hope that these editorials will be really satisfactory both to the European Commission's requirement and to protect our country as a privatisation seller. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u112	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I won't. Questions were raised in the speeches of the MPs, who wished to be answered by Deputy Minister Lyuben Petrov. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u113	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I want to assure you that sitting in the back with the experts from the Ministry of Economy, who have been experts for many years at the Ministry of Economy, listen to comments and I am convinced that what they are saying to me is that we are seeing a déjà vu, which has been commented for many years only on this § 8. Indeed, the arguments that are being commented here, at the moment, in plenary, our experts, not the experts of this government, but the experts of the Ministry of Economy have tried to protect the Bulgarian interest to the European Commission repeatedly. All these arguments, which are quite logically and logically put forward before you, are so. I submit on the basis of my fellow Members that these arguments have been presented to the European Commission, but they have not been approved and have not been accepted. This basically means that if § 8 is not accepted, we risk the penalty procedure to start, it is currently starting with over 800 thousand. Euros. If Bulgaria is convicted, at least what I comment with my colleagues is that there is no practice in the European Union for the time being that they know, any country that has won against these arguments in the European Court of Justice, which means that between 30 and 60 thousand. EUR every day until this violation is resolved Bulgaria will have to pay. Each of you can realize what sanctions Bulgaria will take and will have to pay. Finally, again, we will be forced to accept § 8. So I really call on my colleagues without going into details that someone has told us something as Bulgarians. I am actually a person who respects every Bulgarian expert and I am the last person to say let us vote because that is what we have been told. If our experts are not convinced of this thing, I can really give the floor in detail and your colleagues can explain where we have tried in different years to make this thing happen since 2011, colleagues say that all possible attempts and receipts have been made to the European Commission so that it is not necessary for § 8 to be dropped. This is not a government, it is not a team of the Ministry of Economy, it is not the current minister, and it is not the current leadership. And the fact that we are sitting here behind the parliamentary opposition and I am hearing even from MPs on the left, that things are really repeating and repeating and repeating, and if we want Bulgaria to move forward, my personal belief is that § 8 is necessary. Paragraph 8 is about some transactions that were concluded over 15 years ago. The annulment of § 8 will not give rise to retroactive action, and from now on, things in the Privatization Act and post-privatization control are fully protected by its new provisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u114	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister. For a statement there is the word of the people representative Iskren Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u115	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am extremely pleased with today's debate because it shows a rather serious consensus in the main speakers so far. Indeed, we have a complex history of privatization in Bulgaria, a story which the European Commission may hardly suspect there might be. Since 2002, there have been a large number of transactions that have been concluded without the necessary collateral for default. I would like to ask a basic question: how many, in fact, as a number, are these contracts, which remain currently unsecured by the means of the legislation in force? In fact, this is perhaps the main question of what we are arguing about. We have been told how much it will cost us to fail to comply with the recommendations from the European Commission. However, the question remains what can cost us blind performance. In this spirit, it is important to have such information and perhaps the importer should have summarized it, proposed it with the introduction of the first reading bill itself. In my opinion, there is no serious danger that the legal consequences are such as to result in the abolition of the mortgages currently imposed under the current law. It's just that the law works from now on, it doesn't have reverse power. In this spirit, we are solving some problem with the cancellation, but we are creating another one that we do not know how to solve this is the issue of control. The control between 2002, when the new law was adopted, and in reality, until the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control managed to cover those contracts that were not secured. This is for me the main question... what is the amount of contracts on which there may be default in the future, how much they are, what the damage to the state can be. We categorically say that the Patriot Front as a group must have, § 8 must exist in some form. It may even have to settle the cases for which it is implied in this opinion when, due to the failure of a minority shareholder, protective measures are imposed on the whole company. We are also in favour of this, but it is important to ensure what the state needs to take from privatisation, because the age of irresponsibility in the privatisation of state municipal property must be terminated, and all legal mechanisms that guarantee the execution of contracts with job retention, respectively the payment of the amounts for which these contracts are signed, must be defended. In this spirit, between first and second reading, the Patriotic Front will make its proposals for an amended text, which takes into account the recommendations of the European Commission, but retains state control mechanisms on the already concluded privatisation transactions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u116	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Georgi Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u117	I'm asking for an extension of time. Dear Mr President, despite the claim of the respected Deputy Minister, my main thesis is that dialogue with the European Commission is not and must not be terminated. Here is my first question: You are talking about serious experts, I ask you: is there a single written opinion of the Bulgarian side to the European Commission that refers to this.. mentioned before me by the speakers, an interpretation of the Supreme Court of Cassation of the Republic of Bulgaria, according to which the privatisation contracts are not commercial transactions? Have you referred to this opinion of the Supreme Court of Cassation to suggest an interpretation of our position that this type of contract does not fall within the scope of the European Commission and our pre-accession treaty? Secondly, if the European Commission claims that this § 8 violates the interests of investors in the European Union, I raise the question: which group of investors? Therefore, I ask you, although Janaki Stoilov raised the question and gave the answer: is there a single case in the practice of our Post-Privatization Control Commission, to which a majority owner of shares or shares has been put into hold in the order of this article on the entire property? The answer is none! And even these compromise cases that you propose, let's write that in § 8 a restraint is required only if you have acquired more than half, it will be a formal and hollow phrase. Thirdly, I ask you: if you insist that Bulgaria should not be punished, will you answer me how in the cases of § 11e, which you do not propose to cancel, and you cancel § 8, Bulgaria will not be sanctioned against 800 thousand a day? Have you read what it says? Well, he's repeating §8! And if they looked so closely at some lobbyists in § 8 why didn't they see § 11e? I'm not reading it. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov raised a very important question: how much is what is not paid and what is frozen? It's obvious that when you sell what's not paid or there's a hold-up, it costs a lot cheaper. If parliament removes the lien, it becomes more expensive and such investors become much richer. However, honourable Members who have looked only at § 8, § 11 of the same law say that since 2006, no one who has fulfilled its obligations under the privatisation contract can sell shares and shares without the Commission's permission for privatisation and post-privatization control. I ask: is there at least one solution and why such a sale of shares and shares when you have not paid your debts? If the answer is no, who are we relieving? So there's not a single case that's a minority stake and no one can sell shares and shares of a company that's not paid off. Which mortgages does the importer cry for? Ladies and gentlemen, there is a subtlety which I ask the esteemed representatives of the importer who are already heading for the stand to answer: is there no double approach? Those deals before 2006, which are hardly 11 years old, do lobbyists cry for them? Because after 2006, it can no longer, not by virtue of § 8, but by virtue of 11 and 11e. Why do you divide the debtors of the Bulgarian state into two? Some of them you're gonna take away their mortgages, and some of them aren't. I will not give specific examples, but there is one such company to which the caretaker government has simplified 150 million, and now owes another 20. And these disputes about KTB. I ask you: will you answer the criteria by which are these double standards, by which you remain 11 years and 11e, and it applies after 2006, we remove § 8 and a group of privatisation transactions remain in dire situation. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the dialogue with the European Commission continue under the interpretive decision of the Supreme Court of Cassation. Secondly, to say that there is not a single deal on which a minority owner has been arrested. Thirdly, to say that whoever has bought cheap shares and shares from a company that has not paid in violation of the law, should be so good to participate in this claim, because it cannot at the expense of the Bulgarian people make European players much richer than they are at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u118	Any lines to Mr. Bojinov? Mr. Glauchev informed me that Mr. Bozhinov had asked the importers questions. Come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u119	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in relation to the questions raised, I would first like to assure you that the European Commission has been informed and this decision has been sent to it for information. It served as one of the arguments in defence of § 8. For the first time, the question was raised before the Bulgarian state in 2011, after which in 2012 we received a letter of formal notice from the European Commission, which is the initiation of the criminal procedure against Bulgaria, and in 2013 we are already at the stage of a reasoned opinion, which is the final stage of this pre-trial phase. The Bulgarian State by procedure must send responses motives in an attempt to protect the stay of the provision and at all these stages we have tried to protect § 8, with the argument being prepared by the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control. I say again, for sure because this argument has passed through me, this interpretation decision has been sent to the European Commission and yet the Commission has not accepted the arguments of the Bulgarian state. That is precisely why, and not only because of this, but because we have studied the case of the Court of Justice of the European Union, we believe that if it comes to a case the Bulgarian State will not succeed in winning this case and what we will achieve as a result is payment of some financial penalties, and then again we will be forced to repeal § 8, because it introduces a special state law which, according to the interpretation of the Court of Justice of the European Union, is contrary to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Every country of the European Union which has tried to defend the preservation of such special state law before the Court has failed and is condemned, so the alternative that you are offering with the preservation of § 8 will not serve us in those transactions which concern a past period, which we must emphasise. Thus, the annulment of § 8 will have effect in the future, it will not infringe the right and effect of that paragraph, which was retroactive. With regard to whether there is a difference between investors, the Commission does not consider the issue from this point of view. In the event of a complaint, it shall examine the situation and ensure compliance with the rules of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Here the question is not whether we are protecting certain investors, moreover that parties to the privatisation contract, which may not fulfil these obligations, may not be foreign investors, but Bulgarian enterprises. So I don't think it's appropriate to deal with the matter this way. Since it is a matter of contractual relations, it should also be stressed that there are other mechanisms in the Bulgarian legislation that allow to protect the interests of the state in relation to these uncollected claims. I would like to emphasise that even in the case of § 8, which we want to cancel, which has been in operation since 2006, these claims have not been collected. The probability of collecting them is minimal and almost bordering on zero. Obviously, even in the operation of § 8 with this mechanism, we have not been able to collect these claims. I'd classify them in the column of untenables. With regard to the question of § 11e, it does enable the Agency to impose legal mortgages. This question was also posed by us to the Privatization Agency. The assurances are that they actually apply § 11e by putting this option into the privatisation contracts themselves when concluding the contracts. In this way, since 2006, they have protected privatisation deals.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u120	It's about the old ones.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u121	For the old ones is not the "pito-paid."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u122	I ask the Members of the National Assembly not to replicate representatives of the importer from the place.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u123	Paragraph 8 may be used.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u124	Mr. Bojinov! [[Relations of the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u125	And all other ways to seek precautionary measures under art. 397 of the GPC or under the Debts and Contracts Act, which also governs the possibility and regulates the regime for the imposition of a pledge and mortgage, continue to exist. This is a general set line which can also be applied, even though it is not explicitly listed in the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. I hope I was able to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u126	What about 11 years?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u127	Colleagues, please do not abuse the importer's patience. Have you ever participated in the Commission, put these questions there?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u128	We didn't join the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u129	Why is it not reflected in the Commission report?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u130	We didn't join.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u131	Any MP interested in a bill could be in the Commission, in such detail...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u132	In case there are further questions, we can answer and provide additional information once asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u134	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u135	Mr. Karadaye has a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, we of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support the proposed Draft. That's what I want to start with, but I also want to clarify some things that are from our point of view. The first thing we would like to say is that § 8 was a late text in the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act, because that thieving privatisation that caused the need for this text in § 8 was carried out very far back in time to get to that situation... [[People from BSP LB talked with Mrs. Desislava Georgieva on the trail.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u137	Excuse me, Mr. Karadayi! Please take the seats assigned to them! Private consultations outside the Chamber! Mr. Gechev!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u138	There are private consultations in the procedure and there are no private consultations here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u139	Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, to continue the thought of the situation that the period in which the thieving privatisation took place to the extent that the obligations under privatisation contracts were not met and to seek different collateral options were sought because those who bought shares and shares and placed particular bets on those shares and shares, which had nothing else to sit on, they sold out the assets of the privatisation companies and became richer and richer. From this point of view, it was necessary to adopt the text which is currently in § 8 "at least the assets of the privatized companies to serve as collateral so that the State's claims on privatisation contracts can be collected in the event of non-compliance with those contracts. From this point of view, as far as it's concerned, §8 has done its job. The country where there was still nothing to establish as collateral, such as mortgages, gave its result and collected its claims. Once we have a procedure by the European Commission, since § 8 is no longer working, as the Law that we are looking at today will act from now on, and § 8 was mainly with the idea of contracts that have already been concluded, from this point of view, we believe that there will be no such effect that has been adopted and from this point of view we will support its dropping. Moreover, we have seen that § 11b is written down, but even if it is not written down, what collateral will be for future contracts, these collaterals can be part of future contracts and not be like those contracts in which there was not even any form of collateral. Therefore, we in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support the proposals made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u141	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. - What's the line? I won't. Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? There aren't any. I'm closing the debate, I'm going to vote. I put to the first vote the bill amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 February 2015. Vote 109 MPs: 79, against 25, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u142	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against it because the adoption of this text means that we are working against the interests of Bulgarian taxpayers and Bulgarian society. Let's not go back. First, the so-called buyers received the assets for billions of dollars, heavily impaired in the so-called............................................................................................... Secondly, they withdrew money from banks they didn't return, they destroyed the banking system, they devalued the money. And the second time, at the second priceless price, they bought the assets. Finally, we come to the third level of action we forgive some of these outlaws, who do not want to return the yellow pennies to the Bulgarian state! That's what we want to do. Members of the National Assembly have no right to deprive the State of revenue, including, as rightly said by colleagues, and the Silver Fund. Yes, we need to negotiate with the European Commission. From now on, I say that between first and second readings as MP I want all the documentation of the negotiations, the files between the Ministry of Economy and the European Commission, because from what I hear, we have not defended the Bulgarian interest! In fact, what did this committee protect in the negotiations? Did you hear anything being protected? Zero! We didn't get anything! No text modification. [[GERB lines.]] So the Bulgarian interest is not protected and here we are inconsistent. [[Reply from MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] We protect foreign retail chains and we trample on Bulgarian producers. Now we deprive the Bulgarian state of income in the treasury! Dear colleagues, at the end of the day, did we not reach a political consensus on KTB to try to protect the interests of the Bulgarian state? Isn't that right? To collect the Bulgarian state funds from KTB. And here we forgive the funds which, instead of entering the register of the Bulgarian state, will remain blabbering in the pockets of those who received huge national wealth as a gift. We need to do everything possible between first and second readings. We still have a chance to protect the Bulgarian interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u143	Is there a second negative vote, fellow Members? [[Reply from the MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] Come to the stands, don't shout from the ground. Is there a second negative vote? [[Extreme lines by MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] No. Procedure Mrs. Daritkova. Mr. Mihov, give us a chance to hear Mrs. Daritkova's procedure. [[Extreme lines by MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u144	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for extending the deadline for proposals between the first and second reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act by 7 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u145	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put the proposal to the vote. Vote 95 MPs: 92, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point of our weekly program: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PROTECTION FROM DISCRIMINATION. European law requiring the transposition of European norms. With the second vote report Mr. Krasimir Velchev will introduce us to Mr. Krasimir Velchev, Chairman of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. We're listening, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, first I want to do a procedure under art. 46, para. 2 for admission to the hall of Mr. Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Mrs. Irina Ivanova, Head of Department at the same Ministry. Please put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u147	I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 79 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We're listening, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u148	On 18 December 2014, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against Discrimination, No 402-01-12, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 18 December 2014, adopted at the first vote on 18 February 2015. Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against Discrimination. There is one peculiarity here, Madam President. It is from two paragraphs, however, if in this House the second one is not accepted as it is in the Commission's vote, then the title will sound otherwise in the sense that there will be no I therefore propose, fellow Members, that the title be voted on at the end, depending on how the first two paragraphs will be voted. I'm reading § 1: ................................................................................... Art. 9. In proceedings for protection against discrimination, since the party claiming to be discriminated against has presented facts on the basis of which it can be assumed that discrimination exists, the defendant must prove that the principle of equal treatment is not infringed. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become the only paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u149	Whether it is the only one will depend on whether it will be supported in the Chamber § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. Statements? Mr. Antonov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u150	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The changes proposed by the importer to this Law are related to the synchronization of European legislation. However, I think it has been mentioned in the Committee on Religions and Human Rights that, with the adoption of the amendment, we will violate one of the fundamental principles of justice, the defendant to prove his innocence in this Chamber. I believe that we will thus set a precedent and, to a large extent, lead to a significant number of unjustified applications for discrimination. That is why I am making the following proposal: it is clear that we will not support the proposal that has been made by the applicant for a correction on this text: to actually drop this part, which is after the facts in art. 9. I'm reading:..........the facts on the basis of which we can assume that discrimination exists............................ Notice the statement "Make an assumption".. de facto....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's the nonsense I'm referring to. In fact, the expression "facts" on the basis of which it can be assumed that discrimination is possible to be replaced by "facts of obvious discrimination." Thus, the text becomes the following. I read it completely so we don't get confused: In proceedings for protection against discrimination, after the party claiming to be discriminated against presented facts of apparent discrimination, the defendant must prove that the principle of equal treatment has not been violated. I believe that, as has been done, it is correct, and I ask my fellow Members to support this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u151	- What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u152	Can I make a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u153	You can line up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u154	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! We had plenty of time between first and second readings to make written proposals. No such proposal has been made and it is not right for the Commission not to consider such a proposal in it. You had abstained from voting at that point in the Commission, you did not say anything, you submitted no proposal, so I find no reason to change the text, and it, as they say, in twelve minus five in the Chambers. It should be introduced, discussed. That's my line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u155	Second line? Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u156	Thank you, Madam President. My line to my colleague is that the law does not deal with principles as obvious. In this case, obviously, it will be highly incorrect and ambiguous.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u157	And there will be discrimination against blind citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u158	Yes, absolutely correct remark. I would suggest that, fellow Members, we consider the term that law works with. It's called a legitimate assumption, that is to say, before a suggestion, to add a legitimate assumption. Obviously, this is the hypothesis of the text to present facts and circumstances on the basis of which a reasonable assumption of discrimination can be made. The way I understand these legislative changes is that if, for example, you have the classic example of discrimination that is being commented recently on by a man and a woman who are in the same position, service and qualification, but get a different income and the man is higher, then the woman can present the pay slip and that of the man in question to the Commission and say: "Here, look, there are data here and obviously there is a difference in our income. We have the same qualifications. Please also check whether discrimination really exists. "The employer will now have to prove that, on the basis of objective criteria, there is a difference in the income of the two employees and not just that one is a man and the other is a woman. This is my proposal. Let it be a legitimate assumption as an editorial change if you accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u159	Third line? Here you go, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Antonov, I am all about the text of the importer, not because Mr. Tomislav Donchev signed on behalf of the Prime Minister, not because the Council of Ministers imported it for another reason. The reason is that this bill actually complements, and in the current context, bearing in mind conjunctural, obviously, challenges in the Law on Protection against Discrimination, and it also fulfils the commands of several European directives that are already doing so and from this point of view harmonised text with European law. What you are essentially proposing may, of course, be viewed if it was an editorial amendment according to our Rules of Procedure. Provided that, between first and second readings in writing, there was no proposal to the Commission on Religions and Human Rights as the main Commission, provided that it was not considered, was not done orally during the discussion at a meeting of this Commission, I think, Madam President, that we do not even need to consider this proposal and also the proposal of the previous replicator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u161	A hole, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u162	Madam President, honourable Members! My desire in this House with the proposal that I am making is not, in fact, to look for reasons with which to opposition to another opinion, but, accordingly, I am making a specific editorial proposal, which I think the text is getting better and more indisputable. The other, which is largely difficult in fact for the Bulgarian administration of justice. After that, given our manners, this will lead to serious accumulations of complaints and, accordingly, such responses, so that I ask my fellow Members to once again look into my proposal. I think that's what makes the law better. My proposal is indeed editorial, Mr. Velchev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u163	Any other MPs for speeches? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u164	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Here the problem is the change in the burden of evidence and the proof of negative facts. There is an interpretive solution of VCC No 1 I think it was.. which deflects this issue, but another is the question of how negative facts are proved in the practice, is this admissible in the court. I'm talking about the civil court. Even if we are based on the presumption in criminal law that everyone is innocent until proven guilty, then here again we reverse this presumption and have to prove negative facts. In fact, the prosecutor should hypothetically prove that the guilty is guilty, i.e. a positive fact, not that he is innocent. That's unacceptable to me. A better formula should be developed in this regard, for this reason the colleague proposed the editing. It just won't work in our justice system.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u165	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u166	Thank you, Madam President. Without being a lawyer, I will make only one brief clarification.. and at the moment the caselaw is such that one must prove that there is no discrimination available, but this is not proof of negative facts, but proof of equal treatment, the difference is great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u167	Second line? A hole, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u168	My coat will be very brief. No negative facts can be proved. How will a negative fact be proved by what means?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u169	Any other MPs? Mr. Lazarov on behalf of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u170	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In order to complement the discussion, I would share the following. At the moment, our legislation provides for both sides to prove what they say. That's what the Law on Protection against Discrimination says. The court's ruling, which has been cited, shows something else. It claims that the burden of proof is proportionately distributed between the two parties.............................................................................................. The Court has judged and condemned exactly as the Bulgarian legislation predicted. The big problem is that the Bulgarian legislation contradicts four directives in this particular area. Exactly these four directives claim [[crowd cheering]] that the aim is to introduce a more specific regime for the burden of proof.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u171	Colleagues, order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u172	In fact, the plaintiff under these four directives is exempt from the possibility of proving. He's just presenting facts. These are the four directives. Two of them we have started such procedures with the European Commission, which evaluates whether the state has fulfilled its obligations. In fact, the added value of the directives is that it releases the plaintiff to prove these facts and the evidence value and opportunity is transferred to the defendant. In this sense are all the opinions of the European Commission, all the opinions of the lawyers of the Court of Justice of the European Union. If the proposal of the National Representative Mr. Antonov is accepted, then we will be in the process of synchronization of the Bulgarian legislation with the European legislation. This text has been working for two years together with a broad group of specialists in the field of justice and law enforcement. It satisfies the European Commission. If Bulgaria does not take action by 31 March 2015, we will enter into a criminal procedure, which is related to a particularly flexible topic. Under this procedure, the European Commission lays down sanctions. They are two types of periodic penalty payments or a lump sum. In the light of human rights, the court normally awards periodic penalty payments. In fact, I would like to point out that the added value of the four directives is the reversal of the burden of proof. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u173	I think it's clear, colleagues, what Mr. Lazarov explained. I expect the MPs who proposed editorial amendments to them to withdraw them because they contradict the philosophy of votes at first reading Draft. Mr. Antonov, I expect you to withdraw your offer. It is contrary to philosophy, which is why Parliament is currently dealing with this draft European legislation synchronized. You heard very well what the Deputy Minister said. That's exactly what he's suggesting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u174	I heard it, Madam President. I don't have any disagreements with you and the Deputy Minister. In principle, we are not arguing about the synchronization of European legislation and the proposed changes, but on the contrary, we are making this process easier with our proposal. You see, right here in this room, when we read the legislative amendment, we have so many disputes. And the interpretation will get us into even bigger nonsense. In fact, with these adjustments, we are making suggestions that the defendant should not prove his guilt. Let him prove it when he's guilty.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u175	In such proceedings, wines are proven in criminal proceedings and in certain hypotheses of the DPA for unjustified enrichment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u176	In that case, I suggest we vote on it, Madam President. I will not withdraw my offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u177	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. During the debate, two proposals have been made, which, according to the MPs, are editorial. Following the explanations of Deputy Minister Lazarov it became clear that Mr. Vasil Antonov's proposal is not editorial because he changed the philosophy of votes at first reading Draft, which is why the same should not be allowed to vote. Since Mr. Slavov's proposal was made in connection with Mr. Antonov's proposal, given that it is not allowed to vote, the need is dismissed... (The People's presentations Petar Slavov states that he is withdrawing his proposal.) You're withdrawing your offer, Mr. Slavov. I shall put to the vote § 1 by importer supported by the Commission. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer. Vote 97 MPs: 72, against 12, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u178	"Paragraph 2. In Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 17: Seventeen. The recognition under art. 4, para. 1 includes cases of gender change. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 2 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u179	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u180	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! At first reading, when this Bill was proposed, I said a lot of things about this text. At the risk of repeating myself, I'll say them again because I think it's important. However, when there are European regulations and officials are preparing them, it must be clear whether they have done the right expert evaluation or if some civil servant has tried too hard to show more European than Europeans and to bring into our legislation things that are unnecessary. After all, it turned out, as I mentioned in my speech at first reading of the Bill, that this is not necessarily required by the European Union either as a directive or as nothing. Therefore, I call on you, colleagues, do not support this text, because in art. 4 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination is clearly stated by which principles... there is a reference to the gender. I don't see why we need to re-enter the word........................................................................................... Four, even if it's changed. Then we need to introduce people who have the same sex characteristics as males and females. They may also be discriminated against. Why aren't they here?! Why are not introduced and are not requested by the Ministry other UN directives and decisions that have deadlines until 2016 and which must be adopted by 2016 in this law, but put in such things that somehow I believe work to destroy everything traditionally, everything that has happened as rules in the lives of the Bulgarians?! No one has forbidden to be of the first, second, third, fourth, fifth or sixth sex. I call on my fellow Members from all parliamentary groups and, above all, my colleagues from the DPS, because in the Commission, I will recall, they were very active in protecting the text with gender change, at least to your constituents to explain your motivation for supporting it, because you cannot stop evolution. What evolution is this? This is very liberal, but unfortunately, the voters of the DPS in the country, and especially in Sarnitsa, I do not believe to like such things in Bulgarian laws. That is why I call especially on the MPs from the DPS to do not support this text, because you will again expose yourself to your constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u181	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Martin Dimitrov for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u182	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, I would like to congratulate the Commission and its President for rejecting this text and this is not an accident. If today's announcement comes out of parliament: the People's Representatives gathered and decided that when people change their gender, we should protect them from discrimination. This was their work today. The assessment of the thinking, morality and values of this National Assembly will not be good. Colleagues, we have no other approach but to categorically stand behind the Commission's opinion, because in the end it is about values which, I feel, someone is pushing them, as supposedly European legislation, although that is not the case. On these issues, each country must make its own decisions, excuse me. We can't talk about evolution here. Someone is trying to deny us traditional Christian values, like family, and we shouldn't let them. And in order not to talk anymore, I do not want a big debate to grow, I strongly support the Commission's opinion and the values that we need to pass on to our children, the Christians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u183	- What's the line? I won't. Mr Darrin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u184	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted for this point in the Commission and I would like to explain to my fellow Members why. I'm going to say some medical terms, and let them do the math, and decide how to vote. The right to body modification is recognized by law opportunity and every person can have his body by changing his appearance in a way that meets his beliefs and assessment of identity. Most often the change in appearance is done by aesthetic considerations and then we like the cosmetic operations, and increasingly is justified by the desire of the person to express his uniqueness. However, the debate raises another question when the child was born with hermaphroditism? It is then determined some gender by the parents, and after the development of this child, it is found that it actually has the sex scars of the opposite sex. Why should this child be discriminated against? It's not his fault. There are two views on whether sex should be determined after birth by parents and medical staff, or after the child grows up. However, this will be decided in the future. To understand the legal nature, I'll tell you how many sexes there are. The genetic sex comes first.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u185	Excuse me, Mr. Dimitrov, but the debate is not whether to have the opportunity to change gender, but whether, when a person has changed gender, it is subject to discrimination. If we reject the importer's proposal, it turns out that in the case of a change of gender, we can discriminate against a person by the sign of a change of gender. This is the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u186	On the one hand, the right to change gender enables people who are not perceived as a birth sex to get rid of it and with their changed body to fit into their identity. On the other hand, however, against the assumption of gender change, the risk of gender dynamics in public relations is also pointed out that there are people who want to change gender several times. Gender is the basis of a number of legal things - slavery, maternity, marriage, employment protection, protection of pregnant women, donation. I mean, the possibility of gender change is recognised by the Bulgarian legislation in art. 9, para. 1 of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, which provides for a change of Bulgarian Personal Documents when changing gender. Let the Members of the National Assembly decide for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u187	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? Mr. Slavov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u188	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be very brief. Colleagues, currently under art. 4, para. 1 of the Law, I think it was, it is very clear: discrimination in terms of gender, race, ethnicity and so on, that is to say sex. Apparently, if there's a sex change, the face has a sex again. I can't understand what the point of this text is except to ignite an absolutely unnecessary debate, or otherwise, it is absolutely unnecessary. Right now, that's set up in the law. There would be a need for this, if, for example, an operation created some sexless beings, I don't know what to call them, but this is absolutely unnecessary at the moment. I think there is no such hypothesis, so I am also in favour of the Commission dropping this thing. I say we vote it out and get it over with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u189	Second line, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u190	Madam President, honourable Members, I would just like to complete the speech of my colleague Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u191	You're making a line for Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u192	Okay, I'm not arguing with Mr. Slavov, I'm just saying that in some European countries, the problem of gender change is not solved until this problem is resolved in Bulgaria. It's not forbidden, it's allowed to change gender, which is what Dr. Darrin Mattov is talking about. The question is what we will explicitly include the word..... in a law that does not make sense to debate and to pluck something that does not make any sense after this problem is solved.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u193	Third line? I won't. A hole? You won't use it. Any other MPs? Go ahead, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u194	Madam President, taking a positive experience from colleague Mihov, I suggest we end this debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u195	A reverse opinion? I won't. Statements have been made. However, the word wants Mr. Lazarov, who may be able to guide us and then I will cast the vote. [[BSP LB.]] After that, his speech will be pointless. Let's hear it too, there will be no more debates and we will close the debate, but still guide the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u196	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I took the liberty of taking the floor before the vote on the procedure, because otherwise I would not be able to speak. In view of the debate we are having, I would like to share the following things. It was said that such a text was not necessarily to be voted on. On the contrary, it's mandatory! It is mandatory because, in the directive itself, using and referring to the law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, it is described: The Court has acknowledged that the scope of the principle of equal treatment between men and women cannot be limited on discrimination based on the fact that a person is of one or the other sex. In view of its objective and the nature of the rights it aims to protect, it is also necessary to discriminate based on a gender change of a person. This strongly obliges Bulgaria to introduce this requirement in its legislation. Since 2003, Bulgaria has introduced this requirement in the way it currently exists. We argue that in the Labour Code we have created all possible prerequisites for non-sex discrimination, and we argue that, in the case of gender change, this applies. We have also applied the Civil Registration Act, according to which, as a result of certain interventions, if the person changes his or her sex, there is an opportunity to do so in the appropriate order by means of a judgment. [[Loud noise, excitement and lines.]] We have also given the opportunity in changing the identity documents in the Bulgarian Identity Documents Act for a certain period of time for the person to react when changing their circumstances. These are some of the arguments that we...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u197	You put them on the Commission, the MPs are aware of them, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u198	No, Madam President, I say that the European Commission does not recognise our arguments.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u199	I'm aware of that. There are written documents, but you were obliged to submit these documents to the Commission, to know that by supporting the Commission's decision, we are going into penal punishment. These are things spoken in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u200	I've got it all figured out. Yes, thank you. I just want to say that there are actually multiple concepts that have been mixed up. [[Loud noise, excitement and lines.]] There were mixed concepts between gender identity, physical scars and the sex itself. [[Applause.]] I say that most European Union countries are a little ahead and are walking with gender identity, and we are only talking about gender change.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u201	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov, for the clarification. I put to the vote the motion to end the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u202	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u203	Yeah, I'll give you the procedure, but we're in procedure. [[Heckling]] I give because you applaud me when I reproach the guests for being present and not taking the floor, and when they want to take the floor, you are also dissatisfied. Today is a good day. Guests are actively involved in the debate, taking attitude, which I think we should support. We are voting on the proposal to end the debate. [[Reply from MP Julian Angelov.]] I'll give you procedure. Vote 87 MPs: 72 against 11, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Now you have a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u204	Madam President, I do not think that it is appropriate, when a procedure has been requested by a Member of the National Assembly, to be interrupted and to give Deputy Minister Lazarov the right to explain this to the Members of the National Assembly and to mislead. What he said, it's just not true. You let him come to manipulate the room. He manipulated the Commission. At first reading, when he was in the Commission, I told him that he was wrong, but he claimed that it was not true that it was mandatory. Where is it mandatory? Please follow the Rules of Procedure when there is a procedure......... just do not give the floor to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u205	Mr. Angelov, as the Commission has not succumbed to manipulations, so I think that in this case the Chamber of Commerce will support the bill. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] You wanted the word for re-voting? You have the floor to re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u206	Thank you, Madam President. I wanted the floor of revoting for the simple reason that we failed to vote all. And I failed to vote because there was a debate going on here: what is voted on, how is voted on, and more MPs want to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u207	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Colleagues, re-vote procedure, the proposal to end the debate under § 2. Vote 104 MPs: 85 against 14, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Debates terminated. There's a vote coming up. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 2 by importer. They voted 102 MPs: for 74, against 13, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kazak, you want a re-vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u208	Negative vote. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u209	Once in a while, Mr. Kirilov, it may require a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u210	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, it is good, it is a strange coalition, a strange coalition behavior, but blaming your own government, which has introduced this bill, seems too much to me. Something that has been submitted to this text, as well as the previous § 8, we are required by virtue of our membership in the European Union, anyway, we will have to accept sooner or later...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u211	Tell me what the procedure is, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u212	I am proposing a re-voting by appealing to all those who have broadcast this government. In the end, it will remain only that the DPS will support this government. What are you doing?! [[Loud laughter, noise and excitement. Claps by DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u213	Revoting, coworkers. They voted 103 MPs: 66, against 18, abstention 19. The proposal is not accepted, as the quorum is 68 and the votes for the Commission's proposal are 66. [[Loud noise and lines. Claps by DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u214	Speeches!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u215	What's that?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u216	The speeches have been terminated.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u217	We're in voting mode. The Commission's proposal, which does not support the importer's text, is rejected. So now I have to put it to the vote § 2. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Colleagues, the proposal on the Commission's report on the rejection of § 2 has not been accepted. Paragraph 2 reads as follows: In Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions, the following shall be inserted: 17: 17. The recognition under art. 4, para. 1 shall also include cases of gender change We are voting for the amendment of § 2 by importer. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please focus on the vote that is going on.. The Commission's proposal for rejection has not been accepted. Each text, however, shall be voted on two readings of the text of the importer, unless rejected, shall also be subject to a second vote. This second vote is now underway. They voted 105 MPs: 18, against 57, abstention 30. The proposal is not accepted, § 2 is not accepted. [[Applause from GERB and BSP LB.]] Mr. Kazak's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u218	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! In my desire to save you from another confuse to blam your own government [[(Shouts from GERB:]] and to give you the opportunity to have further consultations with your ministers and deputy ministers to clarify exactly what we are voting on and why we need to vote, I am making a procedural proposal to postpone the item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u219	Now it's a vote, how do we postpone it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u220	To postpone the debate and vote on this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u221	We've already voted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u222	So you can consult with your government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u223	You're very worried about us!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u224	Colleagues, we haven't voted on the title yet, so the proposal is resonant. Is there a reverse opinion?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u225	Yes, yes, there is!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u226	The time for extension is procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u227	Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u228	Madam President, we're in voting mode right now, aren't we? We have a previous vote first, with some result. Now the only acceptable procedure is for revoting. I cannot imagine that between the first vote and the revoting, there may be some other Rule of Procedure that we have all adopted. Let us do our re-voting work, if there is such a procedure, although I have not yet heard such a thing done, or if there is no procedure, let us proceed with closing the working hours, as you notice. Thank you. We've made a decision already.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u229	Is there a request for a re-vote? Mr. Kazak, what you've done as a procedure is not for revoting. Oh, yeah?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u230	To postpone the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u231	It's already been voted out, it's not supported and it's exhausted, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u232	We're not done with the Bill. Are there any other paragraphs?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u233	In that case, a vote shall be taken pursuant to § 2 by importer. What do you want, Mr. Kirilov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u234	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u235	Re-vote please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u236	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm making a request to re-vote § 2. I would like to note to all my fellow Members that, despite the opinions put forward, there is an active procedure on this issue. In essence, I fully support the opinion as the Bulgarian state has defended it. Our Law includes, in my opinion, this hypothesis in the concept of sexual orientation, but since we have repeatedly provided these explanations and they have not been accepted, we should fulfil the requirement. Today it has emerged as a day of fulfillment of European requirements. I've also come to know the court decisions that have been applied. I think we're burdening this notion with quite, quite different content, coming out of context and going into some I don't know what interpretations.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-19.u237	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Colleagues, following the vote on § 2 by importer made by 14:00 during the time determined for today's plenary sitting, there has been a revoting procedure. But since it is already after 14.00 and there is no request for an extension of time, this revoting procedure will take place in the next plenary session (noise and lines, applause from GERB. Therefore, I should inform you of the parliamentary control and close today's plenary session, and next, we will continue with this contested bill. Communication of Parliamentary Control on 20 March 2015, Friday 11:00: First will answer the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev to two questions from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, and Slavi Binev. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer ten questions from the MPs Maya Manolova, Cornelia Ninova, Petar Ivanov Petrov, Valentin Nikolov Ivanov, Kalina Balabanova, Chavdar Georgiev, Villas Lilkov, Durhan Mustafa, Dzhevdet Chakarov and Mehmed Ataman, and Mariana Georgieva. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer a question from the MP Borislav Iglev. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer six questions from the MPs Stanislav Stanilov, Desislav Chukolov, Krasimir Yankov, Cornelia Marinova, Lyubomir Vladimirov, and Yanaki Stoilov. The Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will answer two questions from the MPs Valentin Nikolov Ivanov, and Slavi Binev. The Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov will answer two questions from the MPs Petar Slavov and Ivan Penkov Ivanov and one question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Willi Lilkov. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer four questions from the MPs Volen Siderov, Miho Mihov, Petar Slavov and Atanas Stoyanov. The Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov will answer three questions from the MPs Borislav Iglev, Vili Lilkov, Slavcho Atanasov and one question from the MP Dimitar Delchev. The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev will answer four questions from the MPs Kalina Balabanov, Plamen Manushev, Krasimir Petrov and Pavel Hristov, Borislav Iglev, Mariana Boyadjieva and Stoyan Mirchev and two questions from the MPs Boyka Marinska and Ivan Penkov Ivanov. The Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer five questions from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov two questions, Jayhan Ibryamov and Vladimir Toshev two questions. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer two questions from the MPs Slavcho Atanasov and Slavi Binev. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer eight questions from the MPs Ivan Stankov and Georgi Kuchukov, Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev "two questions," Dimitar Delchev, Boris Yachev, Stefan Kenov, Svetla Bachvarova and Cornelia Ninova. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the MNS, delaying responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for the Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva. - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to two questions with a written answer from the National Representative Stefani Mihaylova; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to two questions with a written answer from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to three questions with written answer from the National Representative Ilian Todorov and to a written answer from the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Krasimir Karakachanov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to two questions from the MPs Krasimir Yankov and Georgi Bojinov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova, on a question from the National Representative Stefan Kenov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the MPs Boyka Marinska and Dimitar Shishkov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to three questions with a written answer from the MPs Maya Manolova and Chavdar Georgiev and Dragomir Stoinev; In the absence of the country, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov, Deputy Prime Minister of Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova, as well as the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to an international commitment, the Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to a prior commitment, the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov and the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Tomorrow's regular plenary session, starting at 9:00 p.m. I'm shutting down the plenary day. [[PHONE RINGING]]
