ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Welcome to the Prime Minister and the members of the Council of Ministers. I offer your attention, honourable Members, Project of: The National Assembly's Work Programme for the period 11 March 2015 1. Draft decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act. Importers - Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. 3. Projects for solutions for changes in permanent delegations. "This point has been withdrawn by the importers of the ABB group. "4." Choice of Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. The procedure for the election is by rules adopted by a decision of the National Assembly of 18 February 2015.................................................................................................. It's five o'clock. Draft decision on the establishment of a Temporary Committee of inquiry to examine the facts and circumstances related to the actions of state authorities and institutions, which should have exercised control and countered the draining of CCB in the period 2009 - 2014. 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings. Importer of the Council of Ministers, adopted in the first vote on 19 February 2015. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 8. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. Importers "St. Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Atanas Atanasov." 9. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Hellenic Republic on Joint Control to be carried out at the border checkpoint of Macaza......................................................................................... Importer of the Council of Ministers. 10. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Civil Procedure Code. 11. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Honourable Members, we have agreed on tomorrow, Thursday, to hold a hearing in accordance with art. 110 of Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva, Minister of Environment and Waters Mrs. Ivelina Vasileva, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova and Minister of Energy Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova on overcoming the effects of the natural disaster, which this week still makes it difficult for our compatriots in a number of areas, so this will be the first point on tomorrow. Full consensus has been reached by the Conference of Presidents. Voting mode, please. Vote 191 MPs: 171, against 8, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Other than those proposals for the inclusion of hearings under art. 50, para. 3 which are already a fact in our Programme.. proposals from the groups of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and of BSP left Bulgaria, have received several more proposals for inclusion on the agenda. The first one at the time is Mrs Cornelia Ninova, who offers point.. Draft decision to extend the duration of the Temporary Commission to examine the financial situation of pension insurance companies and their managed universal and professional pension funds and the implementation of the regulatory framework. Mrs. Ninova, will you protect the offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u2	Dear Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, gentlemen and ladies ministers, colleagues! I propose a change in our decision to extend the term of validity of the Temporary Commission to examine the financial situation of pension insurance companies and their managed universal and professional pension funds and the implementation of the regulatory framework. The reasons we have so far heard from the Minister of Finance and the Financial Supervision Commission. In the Commission's work project we have included a hearing of the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, pension insurance companies and universal and professional pension funds. We will not enter within the one-month period, moreover, that the April vacation that enters this period will prevent the work of the Commission from happening under our Rules. I ask that this extension be until 30 April, making a commitment on behalf of my fellow Members in the Commission that we will conclude earlier. We're just reinsured because of the vacation we're about to take. We will probably end up quite early and come before you with a report, as required by Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Shall I read, Madam President, the draft decision?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u3	You're making an offer to put it on the agenda. First we must vote to enter the Programme, and when we get to this point of discussion, then you will have the opportunity. I put to the vote the proposal to include the point in our weekly Programme. Vote 189 MPs: 154 against 1, abstention 34. The proposal has been adopted.. this will be the point immediately before Parliament's control. There was a proposal from Mr. Rumen Gechev for inclusion in the Programme for this week as a point of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition. Mr. Gechev, we are listening to your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Prime Minister and fellow ministers, honourable fellow MPs! I use the case that the Prime Minister is also in the Chamber to say that our proposal to include the bill is extremely important for two groups of reasons. The first corresponds to art. Art. 81, Art. 82 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, art. Art. 101, Art. 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Regulation of the European Community No 1 of 2003 concerning competition rules, as well as the European Commission's Green Paper against trade-related practices. We believe that at this time when the Bulgarian government is making efforts to dynamicize the economic growth and stabilize the economy and finances of the Bulgarian state, and the government, and we are obliged, morally above all, to the Bulgarian producers, on which the functioning of the Bulgarian economy and the Bulgarian state depends. We want nothing more than to restore the balance of interests between the retail chains and the Bulgarian producers. We therefore believe that it is high time for this Treaty to once again enter the Chamber, to be discussed and voted by the Members of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u5	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Voting mode. Vote 197 MPs: for 86, against 78, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal shall be in the order of art. 50, para. 3...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u6	Revoting...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u7	There is no such request, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u8	It seemed to me that...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u9	He did, but he didn't even know he was gonna want a re-vote. Here you go, Mr. Gechev. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! I see that some people could not vote or understand that we want to include on the agenda the protection of Bulgarian producers of goods and services, which have been stuffed by some of the retail chains for years. [[Comments from GERB: You managed, why didn't you support them then?]] We're here to protect these manufacturers. We ruled and passed the Law in Parliament. [[GERB's reply: "Why isn't it working? "]] Mr. President had unfounded reasons to veto when parliament was disbanded, and therefore the parliament that approved this law must look at it again. Bulgarian producers are waiting and watching how we will vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u11	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. It's a re-vote. 200 MPs voted: 90, against 75, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. The latest proposal to include a point in the weekly programme is Mrs. Maya Manolova, who proposes to include a first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Private Judicial Contractors. We're listening, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u12	Honourable Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, Madam President! I welcome the fact that Parliament's leadership has included and proposed in the weekly programme such as this. 10 "Projects to amend and supplement the Civil Procedure Code. Two of these drafts are related to the privileges of the banks in a light order to obtain executive sheets against debtors who can't pay their debts a problem that practically terrorizes the Bulgarian families in recent years in the context of economic and financial crisis. In this regard, BSP left Bulgaria has introduced another Bill, which is closely related to these two bills and refers to the activities of private judicial contractors, to the huge fees they collect from Bulgarian citizens, to the privileges they have with a lack of appeal of many of their actions, including the valuations of real estate that are exported to public sale. In this regard, I propose as a t. 11, after the two amendments and amendments to the GPC, the consideration of the Law on Private Judicial Contractors should also be included, as the subject is important and both laws are related. I will just point out an argument that I think will be decisive for those MPs who are not in the subject: for just last year, private judicial contractors have executed claims, they have made claims of more than 1 billion. BGN, and the pending proceedings before them are for another 5 billion. BGN, i.e. this is really a huge problem for Bulgarian citizens and its legislative framework is imperative, so please support the proposal this week, apart from the laws on GPC, to consider the Law on Private Judicial Contractors.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u13	Thank you. There is no doubt a link between the GPC theme and the Private Judicial Contractors Act. Voting mode. They voted 194 MPs: 116, against 52, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. There are other procedures already in place. I'll give everyone a chance. On behalf of the Patriotic Front Mr. Valeri Simeonov wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u14	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! Two days ago it was 30 years since the bloodiest attack in the new history of Bulgaria. On March 9, 1985, three pro-Turkish terrorists, members of the Turkish national liberation movement of Bulgaria, blew up the car with mothers with children on the quick train Burgas, Sofia. As a result of the violent terrorist act, seven innocent people were killed, including two children, nine others were seriously injured. The perpetrators were captured and sentenced to death in 1988. This is the worst, but not the only attack by pro-Turkish terrorists in Bulgaria. The beginning of the terrorist activities preceded during the so-called "renaissance process".. attempts at train crashes at Karnobat Station and Aitos Station in 1983, the explosion of the Plovdiv railway station in 1984, the bombing attacks at the hotel.. Sliven, Varna airport and finally the "Bunovo" station. These and many other acts of terrorism are directed not against the power then or against the army and the militia. No, the pro-Turkish terrorists' intention was to kill and mutilate as many as possible innocent Bulgarian citizens, children, mothers and fathers, and their true purpose was to instill fear, hatred, ethnic opposition and division of Bulgarian society in the service of the Turkish state and in the scenario of Turkish intelligence. That's proven. In 2007 with the funds of SKAT TV and thanks to the sons of the great Bulgarian writer Nikolay Haytov, and these are the sculptor Alexander Haytov and architect Zdravets Haytov, at Bunovo Station we built a Memorial in memory of the victims of pro-Turkish terrorism in Bulgaria. Twice a year on September 11th and March 9th, the date of the bombing, before this Memorial, are bowing the eyes of the tragedy, the inhabitants of Bunovo and the surrounding settlements, as well as patriots from all over the country. On March 9, 2015, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov, ministers, regional governors and representatives of almost all parliamentary political forces participated for the first time without the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. We all bowed down together to the innocent victims of this barbaric and meaningless act and stated that not hatred and division but only unification is the path to the future of Bulgaria. This unification around the principles, ideals and interests of the Bulgarian people will only save Bulgaria from the crisis and will make Bulgaria last. By bowing our heads before the victims of Bunovo Station, we should not forget that those convicted of this atrocity of terrorist killers until recently also had a monument in the village of Tranak, the municipality of Rouen, a monument called by our people. The monument was built illegally and opened with a celebration by DPS Chairman Ahmed Dogan. At the end of this bloody monument of terrorism, the DPS was setting up revelries and jests, thus blaming the feelings not only of the relatives and relatives of the innocent victims, but also of the entire Bulgarian people. Thus, the DPS continued to carry out the real task of the pro-Turkish terrorists. The introduction of fear, hatred, ethnic opposition, separation of the Bulgarian society in the service of a foreign state. The illegal blood fountain was broken down in 2009 thanks to the efforts of SKAT TV and at the disposal of a man who had the courage to enforce the law. This was the director of RDNC Burgas, Mr. Milen Nenchev. Today, many of the Bulgarian Muslims are already seeing the true face of the DPS, experiencing lawlessness, feudalism and mafia addictions on their own. For this reason, the Emissaries of the DPS focused on processing and encapsulating another minority of the Gypsy in order to set it up against the state, against the laws, against society and other Bulgarian citizens. You remember what a violent reaction caused the declaration I read here on 17 December 2014 on behalf of the Patriotic Front. In it I stated that the DPS usurped the right of the sole representative of the Gypsy ethnicity, promising him only privileges without any obligations. Part of it, I repeat, some of the people of this ethnicity part, who worked 25 years ago, sent their children to school, contributed to the creation of public goods, has now become bold, conceited and perverse human-like, ready to kill to rob a few levs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u15	Mr. Simeonov, please stick to the correct tone of speech in this room!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u16	We were accused of xenophobia, racism and all sorts of other nonsense for telling the truth and protecting a worthy Bulgarian minister. The united strong forces of Sorosoids, Helsinki mobsters, third-rate depesarians of State Security gave a howl to the skies, but I would still repeat that Bulgaria is facing the chasm of an ethnic crisis two opposing mutually exclusive worlds are against each other in our tortured homeland. Now, two months later, the attacks on medical teams in the gypsy neighborhoods do not stop, the robberies and beatings on single pensioners are commonplace, but even half-slept by the Psalms of Tolerance Bulgarian society erupted against the atrocities committed in the last days of the 64-year-old Stoyan Ivanov by Pravets and 23-year-old Veronica Zdravkova, brutally killed in Veliko Tarnovo in order to steal 25 leva from her. At the same time, the advocates of European values overturned all media for an avid DPS SUV, while MPs of this unconstitutional party in Burgas tried to present a fight between students in a school such as discrimination and racism. Why, dear guarantors of ethnic peace, do not go to Veliko Tarnovo and Pravets to give a lecture against xenophobia and racism of Bulgarians?! Are you going to explain to the semi-literate voters in autumn that they have rights and only rights in the Bulgarian state, and that everyone is obliged to pay them electricity, water, taxes, social benefits, child support and support the children who have given birth and irresponsiblely abandoned them?! Are you going to fuel the fire of ethnic division and opposition again and enjoy the clashes of protesters with the police, as happened in the case of Katunica?! Don't you understand that the political sabotage you're committing has caused mass popular discontent and led to your complete political isolation? Stop playing ethnic card! Ethnics in the Bulgarian state do not need intermediaries. The Bulgarian society has enough maturity to solve its problems without your insidious intervention. I know that the first stupidity that the DPS will run is that the Patriotic Front is trying to ride the events, but unlike your MPs, which fuel hatred from a simple student clash in Burgas, we did not go to Pravets and Veliko Tarnovo. We are here, and we do not pretend that we do not see the severe problems of Bulgarian society. On the contrary, we are therefore MPs to protect people and to find solutions to problems. In this regard, the Patriotic Front will insist on a public register of these 700, or I do not know how many more, condemned, but on the loose, who are wandering around Bulgaria. We will insist on tightening the measures for the SPC in the spirit of the proposed by the Attorney General. [[The members of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are leaving the Chamber.]] We will insist on pre-determining the discussion of life imprisonment without the right to trade and not least, in response to people's demands, we will request a broad public discussion about the death penalty. Thank you for your attention. Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause from the Patriotic Front and partial applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u17	Procedure The Parliamentary Group of...............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the Council of Ministers! I am making a procedural proposal for direct broadcast on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio at the first point of the weekly program, both the debates and the vote, and the hearing of the ministers on item three of the weekly program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u19	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposed proposal for direct broadcast of the first point of the personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria, and the third item for the hearing of Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva, the ministers of energy, regional development and the environment and water. Vote 169 MPs: 141 against 11, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Several messages until colleagues from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms enter before we move to the first point of the weekly programme. Bills and draft decisions entered into force from 4 March to 11 March 2015: Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education. Importer Ivan Stankov. The Committee on Education and Science is the lead. Draft Law on the ratification of Amendment 3 to the Agreement on the provision of consulting services between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. A bill ratifying the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code. Importer "Valery Simeonov and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. A bill amending the Investment Promotion Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Health and the Committee on Legal Affairs. Project for a decision for the transformation of a private university of a private university called a College of Economics and Administration and with its head office in Plovdiv at a specialized private university of security and economy of Plovdiv. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Project for a decision for the transformation of the private university of senior college with the name of "European College of Economics and Management" and with the head office of Plovdiv in the specialized private school of economics and management of Plovdiv. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Education and Science and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Project for a decision for the transformation of the College of Telecommunications and Posts Sofia, Varna University of Telecommunications and Post Offices with headquarters in Sofia. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Project for a decision to convert a private university to a college with the title of "International College" and "Albena," based in the Resort complex "Albena" in the municipality of Balchik, in the specialized private university of management of Varna. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Education and Science and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers: Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The Committee on Education and Science is the lead. Project for a decision to complete the composition of a Temporary Committee of inquiry to examine the facts and circumstances related to the actions of state authorities and institutions, which should have exercised control and counteracted the draining of KTB in the period 2009 - 2014. Project for a decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer is the Council of Ministers. A bill to amend and supplement the Road Traffic Act. Importer Peter Slavov. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft Decision on the extension of the Temporary Commission for the study of the financial situation of pension insurance companies and their managed universal and professional pension funds and the implementation of the regulatory framework. Importer: Cornellia Ninova. On the basis of art. 85, para. 6 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly Mr. Ivan Slavov Ivanov has withdrawn a draft decision for a change in the composition of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly in PACE. Mr. Ivanov also withdrew the draft decision to complete the composition of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the OSCE on 6 March 2015. In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, the Minister of Defence informs the National Assembly that by his order he has authorised the passage through the territorial sea, the non-military stay in the domestic waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and a visit to the port of Varna for the period from 7 to 10 March 2015 including servicemen and ships of the permanent NATO naval group. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the relevant competent state authorities have been notified. On 9 March 2015 the National Statistical Institute received material from the National Statistical Institute, containing results of statistics on gross domestic product in the fourth quarter of 2014 and preliminary data for the whole of 2014, labour productivity, employed persons and spent time for the fourth quarter of 2014. The material is available in the Library of the National Assembly. A Report on the implementation of the programming budget of the Ministry of Culture for 2014 was received in the National Assembly on 10 March 2015. The report was made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Culture and Media and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Please include the cameras of the National Television and the microphones of the National Radio in view of the decision adopted by us to direct the transmission of point 1 of the weekly program: PROJECT FOR THE PERSONAL CHANGE DECISION IN THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. A proposal came from Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. Mr. Borisov, you have the floor to present the project.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In addition to this point, I will then ask for a dozen minutes of political parties' attention on a topic that we believe is extremely important to the country. So let's move on to what's scheduled as the first point for today. Mr. Veselin Borislavov Vuchkov, Minister of Interior, resigned to me as Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria and asked to be released from his office as a member of the government. In this regard and on the basis of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I present to you the draft decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers. The draft decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria provides that Mr. Veselin Borislavov Vuchkov will be released as Minister of Interior and that Mrs. Rumyana Gencheva Bachvarova be elected Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration. Mrs. Bachvarova retains her current position in the government and takes over the Ministry of Interior. I propose that the National Assembly adopt the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u21	The debate is open. Please, the Members of the National Assembly wishing to participate in it, give a sign of this. [[The National Representative Volen Siderov wants the floor.]] Statement on behalf of a parliamentary group. Here you go. [[Noise in GERB and RB.]] You are aware that statements on behalf of a parliamentary group are off the agenda? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers! I see the whole office is here. That's good. Somebody better not say he didn't hear me, because I'm gonna talk about important things, like I always do in this stands. Furthermore, I will give you a chance to gather some thoughts about the debates, because I see that there is still no clear solution in some groups. I will talk about something that worries our Parliamentary Group of Ataka and millions of Bulgarians. It's about, Mr. Prime Minister, again, the military escalation that's here in our area. You know there are six American ships in the Black Sea at the moment. [[Loud noise and shouting in GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u23	Excuse me, Mr. Siderov! Please turn off the National Television cameras and the National Radio microphones! This is beyond discussing our point that is currently running. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]] Thank you, Mr. Siderov. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u24	Thank you for this censorship, Madam President. It's not the first time you've applied it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u25	It's not censorship, Mr. Siderov. It's the abuse of your right! Please, finish your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u26	You know I have the right to take the floor as a statement on behalf of a group whenever I want, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u27	You have that word. I gave it to you in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u28	The fact that you're shutting down the cameras is your decision. You don't want the audience to hear what I have to say. They'll understand it again, but that's not the point. The point is that we are currently involved in military operations that threaten our security We are involved in NATO operations that are a dangerous provocation. My advice to you, Prime Minister, and to the whole cabinet is Bulgaria to declare neutrality, not to participate in these military operations. Since the NATO Statute, the Atlantic bloc does not oblige us, we may not participate in such operations and thus show that we have no bearing on the escalation of military tensions that Washington has set on fire in our region. As the US Foreign Minister Carrie has already said, we are on the firing line no more, no less. I've been saying this for a long time, but here the War Minister denies it, says I've exaggerated, I've sparked some fears in people. At the same time, the Pentagon chiefs themselves say very clearly that we are on the front line, that is, this cannot be denied, that is already clear! My advice to you: it is not too late, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, to make sure that we do not participate in military operations, not to participate, including in the maneuvers that are now being conducted on behalf of NATO, we know that these are American military maneuvers in the Black Sea region, as this increases tension in this region. We are in no way helping each other by participating in some teachings that are clearly directed against Russia and it is taking measures against us accordingly. We become part of a front where we are already a target. I've said this many times. I will be very happy, as will the entire Bulgarian society, if the government takes reasonable measures and if it tells the US commanders that we will not participate in any way, we will not provide a NATO command centre here, we will not provide a NATO military base here and we will not participate in military exercises in the Black Sea waters in any way with Bulgarian soldiers, equipment and so on. Only in this way will we guarantee our neutrality to a conflict that can ignite World War III. There's no other way! The other is a lie and a scam that we are partners and we are on the right side in the same way that in 1941, here in this hall of acclamations welcomed our accession to the Trilateral Pact. Then the Chamber, in the same way, cheerfully cheering and clapping, congratulated the decision to join the Hitlerist Germany. You all know how this ends, this adventure. My advice to the government is to do what is necessary and to declare neutrality in terms of military escalation in the Black Sea and in our region. Only in this way will the national dignity of Bulgaria be preserved. In addition, there will be no relation to the topic that we will discuss here the shifts in the power ministry. I would just like to say two or three words on the topic DPS, as I see that this is a favourite topic for an exercise in essays of people who are called Patriots. I would like to remind them, as they are for the first time in parliament, that in the previous, previous parliament here in this Chamber, a disgraceful declaration was adopted for Bulgaria, with which the Bulgarian society, the Bulgarian people as a whole, was accused of genocide, no more, no less in ethnic cleansing during the so-called revival process. We all know that there was no ethnic cleansing, we all know this so-called "great trip" why and who made it, and we all know that the Bulgarian people have no fault for any ethnic cleansing. With a statement then proposed by the blues, supported by the group of GERB, the coalition partners of the patriots today, we Bulgarians were accused and the stain is glued on us that we have conducted ethnic cleansing. On two occasions, Ataka is proposing a counter-claim, that is to say that this declaration should be annulled and that we should vote against it. Our proposal has been rejected and I now hear highly patriotic words about the role of DPS "how to execute orders of the Turkish state." All this is good, I have reminded him from this tribune and other times that in defence of the DPS was the American and English ambassador when it came to whether they should participate in the 1991 elections. Some do not remember it perhaps some did not deal with politics then, with scrap trading or something else. To open the archives and see how and who brought the DPS into the Bulgarian policy the American and English ambassadors. So whoever is against this party, stand before the American Embassy and protest, I will tell them exactly where the address is. We need to be aware of the facts when we comment on this high tribune. Here manipulations and general military pathos cannot be applied because we no longer have the right to do so. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam President, thank you once again for your censorship. It really was a unique case for the first time you turned off the cameras specifically for a MP who clearly speaks what you don't want to hear. However, there is no way to silence the truth, and my warning remains in force: you can still withdraw from these military operations in which you are involved, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u29	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. Colleagues, are there any statements on behalf of other parliamentary groups? Please turn on the cameras and microphones to point one. Are there any MPs who wish to participate in the debate on the proposed personal changes to the Council of Ministers? Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u30	Dear Madam President, honourable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! A little over 100 days have passed since this government took over, and we are already discussing personal changes in its composition. With scandal goes not just any minister, but the Minister of Interior is one of the most prominent positions for every government! When our country is exposed to multiple risks, domestic and mafia killings are everyday, a new refugee wave is approaching, as for the whole of Europe and for us, the threat of a terrorist attack is permanent, and natural disasters do not stop. Why is Minister Vuchkov leaving? According to the official version, because he argued with the administration of the Council of Ministers on Legal Affairs. The prime minister and his minister could not read the same law, which they adopted not more than a month ago and were so proud of. Can anyone believe that? We demand to know the truth about the reasons that led to Minister Vuchkov's resignation! Apparently, she's the product of someone's pressure. Whose? Who pushed Vuchkov to ask for the resignations of the head of the service? And why Borisov was concerned while Vuchkov was a minister and at the moment when he resigned, somehow calmly removed the Secretary General and the Chairman of the National Security Agency, giving a positive assessment of their work. Who tried to fake Borisov and control the services with cop tricks? Reformer number one, or Gerber number two, is that the question?! [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]] Instead of answering this question, Boyko Borisov arrived suddenly in plenary last week to conduct some kind of coalition meeting. From this tribune he explained long and wide by which supporting government parties were unhappy, how they voted, why they voted, where they went in the votes and so on. Dear governors, do you not understand that your coalition struggles do not interest anyone and that only a few hundred kilometers from Bulgaria are fighting. Because of your party interests, our security services are virtually weightless. There is no Home Minister, and given Mrs. Bachvarova's nomination, soon a real one is not supposed to be there. The professional leaderships of the Ministry of Interior and DANS are resigned, and the head of the service, Military Information, has been punished with dismissal because he has the courage to defend the honour of Military Intelligence. Why did we decapitate our main security services?! Because of conflicts in government, conflicts in GERB, conflicts between GERB and reformers, conflicts within reformers or in general, because you are putting pressure on the inside, and outside in recognition of the Prime Minister. Instead of conducting reforms, you're making scandals. Every week the government hangs by a thread. Every month, a new quake, a new setback. One messed up the pension system, another will cost us 16 billion, today puts our country's security at risk. The problem with the Interior Minister is serious enough and it is more important than who will outsmart who in the ruling coalition. And Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova's nomination is precisely this product of some outsmarting, convenient option to ensure the influence of Mr. Borisov in the Ministry of Interior and to suffocate the reformist passion for power. We are offered Mrs. Bachvarova, while calming the naughty partners and agreeing the coalition positions somehow, by the way, to watch over the security of Bulgarian citizens. It is entrusted with the entire resources of the Ministry of Interior, along with its enormous responsibilities unexpectedly and almost as a joke. But instead of laughing from the heart, the supporters of this government began to nod favorably. Radan Kanev swore that he did not want Vuchkov's resignation to be a fact, but after a few hours of stay in Bankya he saw in the new proposal for a minister a high degree of political responsibility. [[Replication by Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. Noise and lines.]] You'll fix me later. The Patriots seem to have grown accustomed to no one asking them anything, and the ABC is whatever their position is now until we get to a vote on who knows what's going to happen? [[Noise and lines.]] We from BSP left Bulgaria will vote against changes in the Council of Ministers. We are against because it is clear to the children that Rumyana Bachvarova will be the head of the Ministry of Interior only nominally. Someone else will make the decisions and we demand to know who. If this is Borisov, it would be more honest for him to combine the post of prime minister with that of the Minister of Interior, not to hide behind the back of his deputy prime minister. We are against it because this decision is a result of pressure from inside and outside. And if any of the stories about the raincoat seem witty, then we have a more serious attitude towards that sector on which our security depends, but also our freedoms. We are against it, because the turmoil in the security sector is coming at the worst possible moment when a new refugee wave is expected, for which our preparation is slowing down again. The whole of Europe has sharpened its focus on potential terrorist attacks, and you, just because someone's power ambitions have remained unwarranted, have left the services without professional and political leadership at the same time. Finally we are against because we do not believe that Mrs. Bachvarova has the potential to cope with her tasks and not because we deny her qualities, but because nothing will depend on her. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u31	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Come on in, Rosen Petrov, after him Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u32	Dear Madam President, ministers, Prime Minister! I can talk about the Ministry of Interior without reading, as I am an alumni of the famous school in Simeonovo, which today is called the Academy of the Ministry of Interior. I've been part of these services for a while, though. I know their condition deeply and at a low level, as most of my colleagues, so to speak, are currently in some position of average for the services. So I know what the problems of the Ministry of Interior are. They started back in 1989, when the BCP denied DS and the Ministry of Interior and washed their hands with them in a letter by Petar Mladenov, which was read to us at the School in person, in which the BCP accused the Ministry of Interior and DHS of all sins, as if there had been no article. 1 of the Constitution. Anyway, since then, the services aren't who they are anymore. I'm aware of the state of the service, I realize that this is a powerful quake, but this is a quake on the tops, and I assure you, shaking the tops of the service is a pretty good thing. I would therefore like to pay my respects to Mr. Vuchkov for what he did for the Ministry of Interior Act, for the way he convinced us to vote for him. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] I know Tsvetanov brought it in. Mr. Vuchkov went to all the rooms to convince us... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u33	Colleagues, please don't replicate from place. You'll have the opportunity by procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u34	I would like to thank both Mr. Lazarov and Mr. Pizanchev for the way they submitted their resignations, because there could be a lot of magic and not least to say that our group will support Mrs. Bachvarova for the Minister of the Interior, as I believe that a person who is outside the system can much better look at her. What am I talking about? If I had become Minister of the Interior, as was said at the time... [[Loud noise and lines. It's a thrill. Laughter. Revelations: "Eeeee! " Partial applause.]] If I'd gotten up, I'd be wearing all the negatives of it. I was gonna hire a guy of mine to be a Glasek, and so, you know, everywhere... [[Noise and lines.]] You don't have any doubts about that, do you? While Mrs. Bachvarova is out of this system, why not finally master the system a woman for the second time, I think it happens, which is a smart person. What's to keep the Home Office from having a smart guy as a boss?! [[(Radio.) Laughter. Partial applause.)]] So that concludes my statement. I'm sorry it didn't turn out to be me, but I wish her luck! [[(Radio.) Laughter. Applause on the right.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u35	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Belemezov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers and deputy prime ministers, honourable Members! Initially, I would like to share that the Ministry of Interior is one of the key in Bulgaria for the management of which is necessary consistency and strategy with a horizon of at least ten years. We express our positive attitude towards Minister Vuchkov, his professionalism, the demonstrated different approach and management of the Ministry of Interior. Despite high grades and qualifications for his work, he took a personal act to resign, to which we show solidarity. We highlight our optimism on the occasion of the publicly proposed by the Prime Minister for Interior Minister Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova. We hope that in its face we will recognize a person who will show the necessary firmness and consistency in the management of the office, will be a good balancemaker among all stakeholders and will succeed in these difficult times for our country, respectively for the Ministry of Interior and those serving there, to achieve high results in terms of prevention and detection of crime. We wish the will to comply with and enforce the law, legitimize the positions of the Ministry of Interior, validize the coordination functions of the Ministry of Interior, note in the relations between the three authorities and last but not least between the security and judicial authorities. In parallel with our optimism, we also express our recommendations, of course. First of all, the return of faith in the system, which has a highly limited credit of trust. Here an important role, dear Mrs. Bachvarova, can be played by the trade union police organizations, which in the qualities of social partners are able to provide effective communication for the citizens. Secondly, support for the establishment of a Public Council. The ABB Parliamentary Group has already launched an initiative on the establishment of a Public Council to join representatives of the Ministry and political parties, trade union and consensus organizations, employees of the Ministry of Interior, external experts and NGOs. The need for the establishment of a Public Council is markedly tangible, and the expected results are in the direction of ensuring greater efficiency. Thirdly, transparency in the management of key directions in the Ministry of Interior through the establishment of a systemic approach and the introduction of key indicators to analyse the effectiveness of the work of each head responsible for a particular direction. In this way, we believe that the issue of giving or requesting someone's resignations will be contained, which is a counterpoint and a serious violation of the motivational mechanisms for career development in the Ministry of Interior. The employees are demotivated for short-term reasons in their positions. It is for this reason that the personal perspective and motivation of the employees are also violated to increase their expertise and qualifications. Next, we believe that an important commitment to the Ministry of Interior is the taking of a complex approach in terms of terrorism prevention, given the danger of radical Islamism and upcoming Schengen adoption. The financial and personnel resources should not be considered only from the position of the lack of a budget. Life and health of citizens have no price! Let us not forget that Bulgaria should in turn also make commitments with regard to citizens from all countries of the European Union. About the Road map of the reforms Ministry of On the occasion of the forthcoming reform of the Ministry of Interior, not only with the adoption of the Ministry of Interior Act, but also with the implementation of specific changes through the regulations must be preceded by consultations between all interested parties, in this case political entities, coordination between institutions, coordination with the civil sector, trade union and consensus organizations, business representatives and local authorities. In reforming the Ministry of Interior system, the preventive mechanisms for countering crime and terrorism are missing so far. By Decree of the Council of Ministers No 207 of 18 July 2014 in the management of the Ministry of Minister Jovchev was adopted Rules on the structure and activities of the Ministry of Interior, through which, in our opinion, unjustified, without any motive was closed Transport Police. Our parliamentary group is fighting for the recovery of this department by putting the issue in the media, at internal security and public order meetings, during parliamentary control with a question to Minister Vuchkov. So far, we've met his understanding of the need to rebuild the department. According to my information, I also believe that the Ministry of Transport would support this act. For this reason, dear Mrs. Bachvarova, I believe that we have sufficient reason to put the matter before you again and to jointly seek its solution. In conclusion, colleagues, I would say that Bulgarian society needs serious discussion and more information about security issues, the role of law enforcement authorities in the prevention and detection of crimes. Thank you. [[Applause from ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u37	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. - What's the line? I won't. The word is Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u38	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! The reformation bloc will support Ms. Rumyana Bachvarova's election as Interior Minister. We believe that the choice of a deputy prime minister of this extremely important position gives the necessary weight to the Minister of Interior and makes a clear request that the government will continue the heavy reform that is needed in the security sector. We hope that Mrs. Bachvarova will approach with the same professionalism with which, until now, in the tough battles that are ahead of her, and they are really coming. At the same time, we realize that entering into a new job with a team that you have not done and with a reform that has already begun is a great responsibility and will be a great challenge for you. Therefore, Mrs. Bachvarova, I wish you the courage and motivation that is needed to continue the reforms at the same good pace that they have so far happened because there is no time. There's no time! In May, as you know, there will be a European Commission mission again in Bulgaria, June the oral report on the sphere of security and justice will come out, and we believe that Bulgaria should show this necessary progress, which we all want to see in order to get the first good assessment. Bulgarian citizens desperately need good signs and signals in the sphere of Security. In all sociological studies, domestic crime is described as a major scourge for the population. There I, and I believe, and all my colleagues will support you in your efforts to optimize the administration so as to free up resources for more operational employees so that there will be more serious presence of police officers in places. The other big problem is corruption. Mrs. Bachvarova, you, along with the other Deputy Prime Minister, with whom you have built good communication, and with Minister Hristo Ivanov, will take over and hopefully take out the necessary fight against corruption in both the DMV and the Ministry of Interior, and everywhere to see this outcome and these reforms that we have embarked on. Schengen is also a very important topic - a very important priority for us. This refugee pressure, the security and terrorism problems are also a very serious problem that the Ministry of Interior has to deal with, but I believe and support you in that you will handle. Finally, I would like to address the opposition who asked the question: why were Pizanchev and Lazarov replaced? Colleagues, it's obvious they didn't do their job. Yeah, they didn't do their job! During their time CTB happened, at their time happened Chervei, in their time there were scandals. The example that the Prime Minister has set must, in my opinion, be very clear to you "Anyone who does not do his job must be replaced. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u39	- What's the line? Mr. Velizar Enchev for speaking. [[The Prime Minister is leaving the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u40	Mr. absent Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, Madam President, honourable Members! 100 days ago I voted against Mr. Boyko Borisov's election as prime minister and now I see that I have not made a mistake at all. In the selection of his ministers, Mr. Borisov applied and continues to apply the non-professional, which is normal and pure party principle. In fact, during the current governance of the quadruple coalition GERB-Reformator Bloc-Patriotic Front-ABB and thematic coalition plus DPS, a very vicious principle is fully applied. This misguided principle reads as follows: the farther a person is away from a professional sphere, the better for her minister. Look at the facts of the 100 days of Mr. Boyko Borisov who, unfortunately, accidentally or not, decided to leave the hall right now. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] As Minister of Economy, the prime minister appointed a lawyer who does not have a single day of internship in this field. For a defence minister, he appointed a farmer whose only connection to the army was his soldier service in the Labor Forces. For the Minister of Justice, he put a man with his lawyer's rights revoked. Can you imagine how the members of the Supreme Judicial Council feel? And now, for an interior minister, there is nothing wrong with that, honourable colleagues, a sociologist being an interior minister, but only on one condition, if the state has Scandinavian levels of crime and corruption. Unfortunately, Bulgaria is not Sweden. The principle of anti-choice, honourable Members, is not a Bulgarian phenomenon, but in the poorest country in the European Union, the anti-choice is hard and I would say irreparable damage to the morals of the nation and to the professionalism of the experts. Speaking of anti-team, let me remind you of something important that Mrs Bachvarova said on November 11, 2014, just elected Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policies and State Administration. I quote the words of Mrs. Bachvarova: The Ministers are politicians, they should not be experts. Even in certain cases, it is harmful to be experts. Ladies and gentlemen, in any normal state such a statement would be condemned as contrary to common sense, but in our country, as you know, the abnormal is considered normal. For this reason, a man who is external to the interior ministry will become his minister. This is happening, as has already been said by Mr. Merdjanov, against the backdrop of the war in Ukraine, the rise of the I ask myself, perhaps you ask yourself, does Mrs. Bachvarova have the necessary capacity and expertise to manage the Ministry of Interior, since she has no idea of police work? The answer is one and you all know it. [[GERB lines.]] The answer is one, and it reads: "No, it does not have this capacity, as it is not an expert. However, I have a hypothesis about this personnel insanity in the Ministry of Interior, and this hypothesis is particularly worrying. Mrs. Bachvarova has been posted to the Ministry of Interior to provide the government, the quadruple coalition, a victory in the local elections in the autumn, because with her actions and her inaction, Mrs. Bachvarova will do nothing against the three vicious votes beginning with the letter "K". Here, out of these three votes there are three parties, there is no need to mention their names, under the expert, of course in quotes, the leadership of Mrs Bachvarova Ministry of Interior, I am convinced, unfortunately, will not take effective preventive action against the buy-in vote in the gypsy ghettos, because these ghettos, honourable colleagues, are an electoral tank for all who have managed so far without exception. [[GERB lines.]] All of you, who will shortly support her choice as Home Minister, will be convinced in just seven months' time that my words are correct. Finally, I would like to remind the Prime Minister, but he came out, the words and what Machiavelli said in his work, where there are lines, as if dedicated specifically to his personnel policy, I quote: "For every ruler is particularly important the choice of his ministers. They can be good or bad, according to the authority of the ruler. The mind of any ruler can be judged by the people who surround him. When they meet their position, the ruler is clever. When they do not meet the situation, then we cannot have a high opinion of the ruler, because his main mistake he makes in this choice of his ministers. End quote! [[The national representatives of the DPS shall enter the Chamber.]] Ladies and gentlemen, after this personnel choice of the Prime Minister, I don't just have a high opinion of our master...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u41	Time's up, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u42	...but I still think he's not for this high office.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u43	Bravo, sit down!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u44	Mr. Karakachanov has the floor for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u45	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! I take the floor on behalf of the Patriotic Front. Our parliamentary group's position is that it will support the proposed solution for a new Interior Minister. From now on, however, there are a lot of questions that we want to state clearly what we think are the priorities for this ministry. We've said them in the times when the government's support talks were being held, we're saying them now. First of all is the problem with domestic crime. Domestic crime has literally flooded two thirds of Bulgaria and Bulgarian citizens with no difference in ethnicity, religion and age. In small towns and villages, they have no sense of living in the rule of law. In these regions, the ordinary Bulgarian citizen is being harassed, the constant outbursts of self-forgotten criminal types and is unfortunately left by the state at the mercy of fate. There are a number of cases where in the same place normal Bulgarian citizens were robbed four, five, six times each, and in the Pleven region there were 11 thefts in one year by the same owner. This requires a very clear concentration on this problem, requires the establishment of that working group, which we had already talked about 3-4 months ago, a working group between the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Interior and Parliament, to develop the necessary measures, including legislative measures. This requires a new policy on how and where police forces are located. In most of the settlements that are subject to domestic crime, there is no police presence, no video surveillance. This leads to a sense of impunity in this criminal contingent that rages. This is a direct blow to statehood in the Republic of Bulgaria and it is the Ministry of Interior that needs to address this problem. The second problem is illegal immigration. We will continue to expect the fence, i.e. the facility along the Bulgarian-Turkish border to be built as fast and secure as possible to prevent the flooding of Bulgaria by illegal immigrants who create a confrontation in society and processes for which Bulgaria's image in the world would not seem normal. The third problem, which has also been addressed by other colleagues, has become the already traditional processes for buying votes and manipulations during the election vote -- bought, corporate and ethnic vote. Here the role of the Ministry of Interior is fundamental not only on the day of the elections, but also months before that. During the caretaker government, some measures were taken during Minister Bakalov's time. Despite the little time, it was evident that they were working. Madam Minister, you're taking on a portfolio in the old days, which will take a lot of effort. In this respect, I hope you can rely not only on the Patriotic Front, you can rely, I am convinced, on all the unbiased normal Bulgarian MPs, for which the interests of Bulgarian citizens and not party coloring stand above any other considerations. We will support this candidacy, but we will expect the things I have just mentioned, which we have talked about for more than three or four months, to become part of the policy of the Ministry of Interior. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u46	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u47	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues! We hear of confirmed support from the coalition partners for Rumyana Bachvarova, not of her vision for the Ministry of Interior, not of what continuity there will be for the reform through the Tsvetanov Act, not for its professional qualities, but because of its dialogue. At least those are the last week's words. This gives the impression of the pressure expected by management or within the system, or tension between government and civil society. [[GERB's line.]] Unlike the Ministry of Finance, which can plan three years ahead the parameters for its domestic comfort of 16 billion. A loan, the Ministry of Interior must largely undertake reactions for events occurring. [[GERB lines.]] A severe criminal situation requires competent professional action. With whom will Minister Bachvarova conduct dialogue about the murder in Pravets? How can it prevent other young people from becoming victims like Veronica?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u48	That's what's been revealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u49	Or about the contract killings that have become daily again how will Minister Bachvarova achieve disclosure? This is the burden of the four months of management of GERB. If the idea is to change the minister every 100 days so that the new one can get credit of trust for some period of time, it is hardly useful for our society. Look at the news! By autumn, only organized protests were present. Now the criminal record dominates. This is the production of your action and inaction, gentlemen ruling! As the ministers work and the scandals that arise from their work, I expect permanent rotation in all departments. Therefore, my failure to support Rumyana Bachvarova is an expression of the failure to support the entire government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u50	Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. To let you know that I have submitted requests for two more speeches by Ivan Ivanov and Tsvetan Tsvetanov. I see Mr. Kadyev. Are there any requests from the other parliamentary groups?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u51	Me too.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u52	Yeah, but we're taking turns with the parliamentary groups. Mr. Kanev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u53	Thank you. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Since colleague Delchev has already expressed the official position of the group of the Reformation bloc, I will only add some things that I believe answer the questions and the banter addressed to us by the opposition. The reformist bloc entered the current Parliament with a clear awareness that within this National Assembly, difficult coalitions will have to be made. It was obvious in advance that you would have to make difficult coalitions to the right of the centre, which made our participation very likely. From this moment on, from before the parliamentary elections, we were aware that we would not support people for ministers, but principles, a programme and, above all, the courage for reforms. He has the courage to reform. The Reform bloc is participating in the cabinet; there is no courage to reform. The Reform bloc is not participating in the cabinet. So simple and sincere, when you step on a healthy land, politics becomes easier to do. We supported Mr. Vuchkov and thanked him for his work "We thank him for the start of the reforms, showed the courage to name the personal problems without which there was a danger that the reforms would remain only on paper. Mr. Merdjanov, I did not support Mrs. Bachvarova in Bankya, but, as you very rightly said, I supported the responsibility of the political party GERB, the biggest party in the government, to continue the reforms, to ensure continuity, to show the courage of the next day to continue the personal changes that Mr. Vuchkov asked for. Party GERB assumed this responsibility, showed courage and will continue the reforms. That is why she will receive our support and not, Mr. Iankov, because it was a dialogueal Mrs. Bachvarova. In the Ministry of Interior, dialogue may not be the most important quality. However, there is another reason why I will now express my personal support for Rumyana Bachvarova. It is because, as Mr. Rosen Petrov rightly said, without a person who is historically and mentally externally, both a responsible politician and mentally external to the cop in the Ministry of Interior and the services, the reform cannot be brought to the end. Secondly, because it is no joke at all that it is time for a woman to take the lead of the Ministry of Interior. It's not a gender balance, it's not a gender balance in management, it's a breakup with a mental model. Last but not least, it is very important to us that Mrs. Bachvarova remains Deputy Prime Minister for Administrative Reform because we have a long-term vision for the Ministry of Interior. Finally, the reforms that this vision includes, the Ministry of Interior must have become a modern and responsible part of a reformed state administration, not a cop swamp outside the state administration, in which dozens of reform efforts so far have sunk. Thank you. [[Single applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u54	Thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Yankov for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u55	I'm using the possibility of a personal explanation. Mr. Kanev, you have not listened to my speech regarding dialogue, but I will develop it. Are you rather worried about the need of the ruling parties, the ruling coalition for dialogue with civil society in the future or about dialogue between the individual parties in the current coalition? For this dialogue Mrs. Bachvarova provided evidence as a leading figure during the negotiations during the structuring of the management of the ruling coalition. I'm going to give you an example that managed to put you side by side with your political opponent, such as Georgi Parvanov. I don't want to give any other examples. I don't think the issue of dialogue will work for her as Minister of the Interior in view of the entire scope of functions of this Ministry. [[Reply from Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u56	Thank you. Mr. Yankov, that was more appropriate for a line. We move on to other speeches. Mr. Mestan has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable members of the Cabinet! Debates on the so important topic of who and why will head the Ministry of Interior have already been poisoned by another xenophobic outburst, which calls Bulgarian citizens "humans." You, without exception, including the Prime Minister, are part of this xenophobic talk because you kept it quiet. [[Loud applause from DPS.]] So much for your European image! However, I will make great efforts to present a principled position in relation to the draft decision proposed by Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. Personal changes in the composition of the Bulgarian governments are a natural phenomenon, but when their change is just after the 100th day, and the key minister of the interior, we are already facing a serious case, which undoubtedly has its internal party, internal coalition and general political dimensions. The focus of the DPS Parliamentary Group is not on the internal party dimensions of today's Project for a solution and we will therefore leave without comment the many hypotheses, including the claim of an attempt to carry out a soft postmodern internal party coup of the prime minister. Furthermore, Mr. Prime Minister, if you hear me from somewhere, we will not enter into your style to comment on the proposal for Mrs. Bachvarova from the point of view of the compliance of her professional qualification as a sociologist with the functions of a power minister, although we still remember your ironic considerations about whether or not a professor philologist can lead the Sports Ministry, for example. You may, ladies and gentlemen, just as a sociologist can lead the Ministry of Interior, especially if it is sincere the motive of the Prime Minister that a woman sociologist, Minister of Interior, will strengthen the civil beginning in this frank power as a function structure of state power. Let's, first of all, start with the basic question. It doesn't come down to which minister goes and which person inherits it. The political question is: why is Minister Vuchkov leaving and in the name of what policies Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova will be elected Minister of Interior today? Today we need to start a real conversation on the substance of the state of national security, on current and dramatic threats and challenges to it, as well as on the most adequate model of measures and prevention for its provision. This, in other words, should be a discussion about contemporary democratic philosophy, about security in a country of Euro-Atlantic value space. The second circumstance on which I would like to draw your attention is related to the realities of the political landscape in Bulgaria and to the existence of a kind of split political agenda and perspectives. Once we have witnessed the conjunctural agenda and a classic struggle between the specific majority of government and the existing opposition. But the other level of political configuration is the strategic level. There the political interaction was built on the idea of ensuring long-term stability based on the country's Euro-Atlantic value choice. Just at this second strategic level, the DPS has repeatedly given its support for solutions related to the long-term horizon in the development of Bulgaria. With the votes of the DPS, constitutional majority of Adhok is formed, which is the most reliable support for real and deep future reforms. And what did it turn out to be? A strategic and constitutional majority is achievable, with the dislocated positions of government and opposition, but the concussion is embedded within the coalition itself. And here arises a serious and very worrying question: does the change of one interior minister with another reconcile the different lobbys of power and their opposing concepts of security that have led to the current crisis? Who's going to guarantee that in time it won't happen again? Today Bulgaria has a serious problem in the field of its national security. The lobbying interests and the dissatisfied political selfishness of Mr. Borisov's partners are an important reason for this crisis. We have a problem where assessments of the work of the Ministry of Interior and special services are not the first cause, but the consequence of the accumulation of several other crises on each other. For us, it is particularly important to describe and explain the overall picture of the crisis in Bulgaria, the reflection of which is today the personal crisis in the Ministry of Interior. As early as the creation of the four-party coalition to support the government of Boyko Borisov, the DPS expressed concern that attracting national populists as one of the management partners would be a continuous source of tension by generating xenophobia, and hence a factor for compromising the country's Euro-Atlantic election. Our assessments and warnings proved correct. The strongest evidence is today. Today in Bulgaria, anti-Turkish and anti-Roma political talk, to make it easier to turn anti-DPS speech into speech, has made it so that for the first time since the beginning of the transition we have such sharp manifestations of ethnic intolerance and confrontation. The culmination of xenophobia was the anti-Roma speeches by parliamentary leaders and a cabinet minister, but very soon we can see a new culmination. The fact that in the center of Sofia, on Blvd. "Alexander Stamboliyski " could deliberately burn cars of the DPS and the perpetrators to have the obvious consciousness of impunity, talking not only about the inability to counteract this type of crime, but also about something far more serious. This speaks of a severe and difficult crisis of tolerance of that tolerance, whose construction since 1990 with the active political co-authority of the DPS should have been the most sustainable synonym of democracy in Bulgaria and its Euro-Atlantic values. In fact, assuming that everything is possible, everything is allowed, means surrender of the power brought to helplessness in trying to protect the public interest and civil society in Bulgaria, surrender to the devoid of a clear profile of power, which often continues to seem synonymous with the notion of "provolved." For the first time, after decades of clearly profiled positions of government, today we can talk about the amorphous management of mutually exclusive political ingredients whose understanding of public stability is the practical equivalent of a state of public stagnation. This is an occasion to reaffirm our understanding that in such a management configuration no reforms are possible, even less in sensitive and complex spheres such as security and home affairs, where political philosophy is primarily required, not forcefulness, albeit in ladies' gloves. The return of DGBOP from DANS to the Ministry of Interior will be a reform, Mr. Tsvetanov, if it leads to higher efficiency. The restoration of the competition beginning is also not a reform in itself if the competition is just a form of.. objectivization.. of a preliminary party selection, which we have seen in practice over the years. Therefore, on behalf of the DPS, I say once again that we will vote against the election of Rumyana Bachvarova as Minister of Interior. Our arguments are not only related to the fact that the DPS is an opposition party. We believe that the topic of Bulgaria's national security requires a conversation to link the security strategy with a strategy for the image and state of the Bulgarian society, understood as a society of equal citizens, of equal ethnic religious communities, of contemporary European multiculturalism, which excludes xenophobic outbursts and nominations of parts of the Bulgarian society with the definition of human beings. Only such a conversation can create the basis for a consensus understanding and hence bring out national resources for long-term strategic support. Without such a discussion, there is a risk that the Bulgarian society will fall victim to new confrontations, to new political and ethnic hatreds and the divided something that will only confirm the impressions that we are in a state of qualitatively new disintegration of the public contract in Bulgaria, which can end either with even more serious destabilization and frustration of the Bulgarian statehood, or even, I would say, could unlock much more dangerous tendencies. Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Bachvarova, on behalf of the DSS Parliamentary Group, I would like to ask you a few questions. First, how will you complete an absolutely impossible task set by the coalition partners to extract DPS from the Ministry of Interior and special services? How do you get something that's not there, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister? Not in the management positions of the Ministry of Interior and the services, but also at the lowest possible levels as regular officers and even DPS voters' s sergeants find it difficult to see individuals who, by one sign or another, could be found empathetic to the DPS. Then what is the purpose of this large-scale manipulation of public consciousness, of this grand lie: the PSD manages the services? What is the purpose of this grand lie? Didn't it become clear at least with the Prime Minister's recent decisions from the end of last week that this myth is dead because it never reflected reality? Or maybe the lab didn't come up with a replacement, and that's why you're gonna keep repeating the myths about the dependence of the services on the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? There is, however, one mathematical law: a million times zero is zero. In four months of management over a million times, you've said that the services belong to the DPS. And a billion times to do so the result will still be the same for us in our services and this is a serious problem of the state of Bulgarian democracy, of the integrity of Bulgarian society. Or, Prime Minister, your partners rely on the simple principle: the bigger the lie, the more credible the lie will seem. We know what this Nazi is doing, by its very nature, the technology of building the image of evil. Yesterday we bowed to the memory of Dimitar Peshev, who 72 years ago at risk for career and life opposed an ideology that turned Jews into universal evil for Europe. Do I have to put the symbol "Jewish badge" on my lapel today to acquire a specific image of your vision of DPS as for the new Jews of Bulgaria in the 21st century?! [[Shouting from RB: "Eee! "]] No, ladies and gentlemen, I won't do it! As chairman of a party that is in the forty-third parliament at the will of 500 thousand. voters, I refuse to believe this is happening in my country! However, I believe that despite your partners, it will remain the country of tolerance! And this is a cause that we will stand both in government and in opposition! But there is a limit, my dear Prime Minister, after which the political process enters a phase in which the political representation together may be unpresentable and the crazy heads appear on the stage. I want to avoid that risk. Therefore, on behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group right here, at this moment, I am addressing you to distinguish yourself from today's xenophobic outburst, which is called the Bulgarian citizens..................................................................................... The fight against hate language is not fought with the silence of these ugly, unacceptable to European and Euro-Atlantic Bulgaria phenomena. Therefore, my second question to you is: what is your concept of the role of the Ministry of Interior and of the special services in a multicultural democracy, in a country that has for its citizens people of different ethnic and religious backgrounds? What are the ethno-religious differences for you, the risk to national security that needs to be isolated and controlled, or wealth, a resource for development, if fully integrated? I ask you because too often we hear messages such as: "Rommy robbed the peddlers and "Gypsy" killed a man, but Stoyan Baltov's killer is not Roma, but Bulgarian, as well as those of the sisters Belneiyski and Kiril Vazarov. But we didn't hear any mention of their ethnicity. Right, because crime is not an ethnic category and the generalization of a criminal act as a characteristic of an ethnicity such as these we hear from your ministers are a classic example of xenophobic thinking. The fact that xenophobia raises ratings today is a serious problem of the integrity of Bulgarian society and hence of our internal security. However, I will remind you of a sad historical fact. In 1989, Yugoslav dictator Slobodan Milosevic told a thousand-dollar rally in Kosovo that he would not allow a Serb from a Kosovo Albanian to suffer. Sound familiar?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u58	Extend time, Madame Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u59	At that moment, the communist leader became nationalist. His ratings jumped over 90%. Again with so much won the presidential elections and the former Allied Republic of Yugoslavia sank into the tragedy of civil conflict. I know that the coverage of my speech in this part will immediately come down to the coup d'état "Mestan" again.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u60	He didn't pick her up!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u61	No, today the DPS doesn't take out the ethnic map. Today the DPS raises its voice against [[the President signals that time has run out]] The inert nationalist sound of Bulgarian politics against its deficits and defects.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u62	You have the opportunity to extend the time, Mr. Mestan, if you wish.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u63	Please extend the parliamentary group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u64	Which automatically prolongs the time of all parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u65	Prime Minister, do you know the difference between the messages to remove the DPS from power and to extract the DPS from the country's social and political life? The first is a legitimate political thesis, a constant characteristic of political life. The opposition parties aim to overthrow the ruling parties. It's natural to pull us out of power, but the thesis [[SIGHS]] The partners suggest that we scrape the DPS out of the country's social and political life is something else, something that stands outside the policy field. This is xenophobia. How does this anti-DPS hysteria relate to two other important challenges to our national security, the Ukrainian crisis and international terrorism in the face of the Islamic State? Ukraine is a hard test of the sincerity and consistency of our Euro-Atlantic value choice. The broad political agreement on Bulgaria's membership in NATO was difficult to achieve. Any wavering of this agreement is now a matter of national security. Unfortunately, we see such signs in both the left and the right pillar of Bulgarian Euro-Atlanticism. BSP, whose European legitimization after the failure of Videnov DPS played a small role with the formula for socio-liberal governance, today from this platform there are speakers, apologists of the revival process. The once strong UDF since Bulgaria ratified the Framework Convention and together with the DPS provided an air corridor for NATO against the Milosevic regime to enable our membership in NATO, is now brought to the grotesque to be a junior partner in a coalition with national populism, but with a claim of guardian and censor of the main entity of power in the face of GERB. Paradoxically, but it is very true that the only traditional party of transition, the party of national liberalism and the Bulgarian political centre, the DPS remained the most consistent and principled Euro-Atlantic formation in both spirit and conviction and political genesis. That is why we have the authentic right and responsibility to warn the Bulgarian society about the risks of deviations and deformities, which, as a result of unsuccessful policies and unprincipled negotiation, would face its strategic political choice. Here I wish to express my regret as President of the Liberal Party DPS that last week the Conference of Presidents of the National Assembly did not accept our idea of voting on a joint parliamentary declaration in memory of the brutally shot Russian Democrat and Liberal Boris Nemtsov something that would have a vivid symbolic value as a reaffirmation of the Bulgarian Euro-Atlantic value choice and as a general condemnation of any political violence and terrorism. The DPS consistently condemns any acts of terrorism, regardless of who and for what cause! No one here has the right to a selective approach. It is obvious that Bulgarian democracy still has much to learn and how to build its sustainability in time. The most important guarantee is in building transparent, highly educated and highly sensitive to democracy and tolerance society! Our understanding is that the guarantees for the country's external security are not in the meters built wire network along the border with Turkey, but in the reflection and role of authentic value barriers to radicalism and potential terrorism. Today the refugee wave is a problem for Bulgaria, a problem for the social structures of the state because of the limited financial resources of the Bulgarian state. But the risk to national security is not the refugee wave itself, but the penetration of radical germs through the refugee wave. And, Prime Minister, not one...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u66	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u67	...three wire nets to build at the border, this germ cannot be stopped! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The most reliable barrier against the germ of radicalism is the DPS with its model, with its national, liberal and European profile! And the attitude towards the DPS from this point of view is part of the big issue of internal and external security of the country! The sooner this reality is realized, the better for the country. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u68	- What's the line? The first line is Mr. Kanev, the second line is Mr. Karakachanov, and the third line is Mr. Karadzhov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u69	Madam President, honourable Members! Twenty-two minutes was an unnecessary amount to say the two room threats and the simple explanation of the problem. And it is that you call the language of Mr. Simeonov, which we deeply do not share and you know perfectly well that we deeply do not share, you call every attempt in Bulgaria to stop the fastening of communities in order to keep them in misery and to shop for their voices. And here to the question of the presence of DPS in the Ministry of Interior and in the services. You're absolutely right, Mr. Mestan! None of your constituents, no Bulgarian Turk, no Bulgarian Muslim, no Bulgarian Roma and no Bulgarian liberal can see themselves presented in your appointments to the Ministry of Interior and the services. You can't! It's true! No one saw in Peevski a representative of the Bulgarian Turks, Muslims and liberals because he was not! [[Applause on the right.]] Because the threat to national security is not the Bulgarian Turks, Muslims and liberals, not the Bulgarian Roma. The threat to national security are the two persons of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the abuse of ethnic, verbal, minority vote to serve the mafia that you placed in the services and in the Ministry of Interior, which has nothing to do with the interests of the people who voted to put there. Because in removing certain persons from the Ministry of Interior and the services, and obviously in the choice of Mrs. Bachvarova, very correctly you see a threat to collect the umbrella over those who maraude on people, and then against the background of misery, buy their votes. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u70	Second line, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u71	I'm taking this line for another attempt to Satanize the patriotic fort. [[Elevator bell dings]] , by changing terms... Yes, the Patriotic Front is a fort of Bulgarian and statehood in Bulgaria, and so you can understand it, as I explain to one of you, the Bulgarian does not have it well. [[((Noise and lines from DPS.)]] Is the rapist of an eight-year-old boy a normal man? Maybe he's a humanist? Is the tesla killer of a 23-year-old girl a normal person? Are the rapists of 80-year-old women in the villages of Bulgaria normal people? Killers of elderly people who have worked their whole lives for this country and were finally killed in the cruelest way because of five levs of their last pension? Are these normal people? You might call these murderers man-lovers and extreme liberals? Your right, only these are the people who create the problems in Bulgaria. These are those people who kill the sense of statehood, and these people need the law to be uncompromising. Do not attempt to transfer the terminology from xenophobia to anti-Semitism. First of all, "xeno" means hating a foreigner. I don't know, maybe you consider yourself foreigners in Bulgaria? [[Applause from PF.]] But we don't hate you either. We're just criticizing in the most normal way. Just to check that by interfering with xenophobia, the holocaust, three of the five from the Initiative Committee of Kyustendil who came to this building to ask Peshev for assistance are the leaders of IMRO! That's not xenophobia! [[Applause from PF.]] So, very please, do not try one way or another, with absolutely fictional notions of throwing mud on the patriotic front. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] People who rape children kill elderly people should be persecuted with the greatest rigour, if you will, and cruelty of the law! That's not xenophobia. It's respect for the law!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u72	Mr. Karakachanov, you talk more than time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u73	This is the desire of Bulgarian citizens to live in a sovereign state where there is order and order! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u74	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. Mr. Karadjov, third line. [[Replyings and calls from "Attack."]] I agree it's not really about the subject. [[Replys from "Attacka."]] But it's in the debate about a statement to the draft decision. I call on the Members of the National Assembly to return to discussions in this point Project for a Decision. We're listening, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u75	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Ministers! It would be really very sad, it would be really very tragic if everything you said was true. Unfortunately, it's awfully funny! It is terribly funny spoken by your mouth, because this ridiculous cry that you present here is a hypocritical political language. Hypocritical political language, which is a split, poisonous language and which you mask behind a seemingly correct grammatical construction. But you can't let anyone down, ladies and gentlemen of the DPS leadership! We are not naive first, because between the DPS and the Bulgarian Turks there is no sign of equality, as you were trying to instill in your speech. No, there's no such thing as equality! That is why the removal of DPS-cadris, of DPS-kalines from power, is the first and main task of this reformist majority. [[Applause from RB. Replies and calls from DPS.]] And this is the first step through which we will integrate really Bulgarian Turks into power. [[DPS lines.]] Because these are not the obedient Turks to serve the model who? These are the future Bulgarian administrators to serve their people, not the leadership of the DPS. [[Loud noise, lines and calls from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u76	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u77	And just one last sentence: who is the xenophobe today in the Bulgarian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the DPS? It's definitely the DSS's leadership.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u78	Time's up, Mr. Karadjov. Sentences have become more than one.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u79	Because you, through your words, are the affront of xenophobia by constantly trying to make it look like you are protecting people from the Turkish and Roma majority.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u80	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. I'll take your word for it! I'll take your word for it, Mr. Karadjov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u81	And at the same time, at the very least...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u82	I'll take your word for it, Mr. Karadjov. It's a hole. Forty-five seconds too much talking. [[Replys from DPS. People's representative Grozdan Karadjov replicated away from the microphones.]] Please, Mr. Karadjov! [[Loud noise and lines from DPS.]] A hole, Mr. Mestan. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! It would really be funny if it wasn't just sad, but tragic what I'm seeing. After these lines, after today's debates, we are more than ever convinced of the rightness of our cause, and we will stand up for it, despite the outbursts. I do not have a duplicate for Karakachanov's speech, because I do not understand people who can walk on the same moment on the Lukov March and stand in honor of the memory of Dimitar Peshev. In medicine, there is another word for this split state. I don't understand the distinction of hate language and at the same time being in the embrace of hate language. How do you distinguish yourself by hugging national populism with hate speech? Is that the distinction? [[Applause from DPS.]] And second of all, do you know how much it doesn't suit you to talk about mafia because the roots of the Bulgarian mafia are in the swamp of thieving privatization? There appeared the Bulgarian mafia. [[Applause from DPS.]] And there, in this swamp sank two million voters on the right, to be today in the position of a party of the mime, with a claim to censor the main subject of power in the face of Mr. Boyko Borisov. Honourable colleagues, have a look. Today this parliamentary debate is of great importance, Mr. Borisov. If the system parties do not distinguish themselves from the language of hatred, we will be forced to call a meeting of the Central Council of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, to hear the voice of all local, municipal, regional structures to take adequate risk to Bulgaria, which is noted today in the Forty-third National Assembly. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u84	The word wants the minister of resignation, Mr. Vuchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable ministers! However, let us get back to the topic of today's meeting, and in particular to our point, this is the issue of my resignation, which I deposited a week ago at a meeting of the Council of Ministers, then I reaffirmed to Prime Minister Borisov. Regardless of everything spoken, regardless of the compressed political atmosphere that is noticed in the plenary, I will say that this resignation of mine was caused by a contradiction with Mr. Borisov regarding the professional fate of the Secretary-General of the Interior Ministry. Moreover, this was not just about a specific name and a specific person, it was about the fate of the reform that we at the Interior Ministry are undertaking, thanks, of course, to a very large extent to you MEPs who supported us in the respective legislative initiatives. In my resignation, I wouldn't want to see anything mysterious. I believe that it is a key, meaningful issue, in so far as I cannot accept that, at the head of the professional leadership in the interior ministry, it should be a person who represents everything we have spoken about for about two years in opposition, which does not emit good impulses towards civil society, as long as its name is associated with a model which was opposed to civil society two years ago at the historical date 14 June 2013. Besides everything else, I am concerned as a political leader of the Ministry and the question that Mr. Lazarov did not inspire confidence in the very professionals in the interior ministry and policemen and firemen. For this reason, I resigned, and there really should be nothing dramatic about it. This resignation is a personal, sovereign act, backed up with relevant arguments. When there is even a shadow of contradiction between me and the Prime Minister and a shadow of distrust, it is normal for the Minister to resign. I believe that if Mrs. Bachvarova is elected Minister of Interior, all reforms that have been designed with the relevant legal changes will continue. Personally, I'd do anything I could to help. Finally, I would like to thank all the MPs who supported the bill amending the Act on the Ministry of Interior, which entered into force two weeks ago. This was an important step along the path of reforms. I thank the largest parliamentary group because it was, after all, the main initiator, as well as all the other parliamentary groups, because at least on the topic of Security, it seems to me that there may be a slightly wider political and fuller professional union. I would also like to thank my colleagues from the Council of Ministers, with whom we worked four months ago, and Mr. Prime Minister Borisov, who proposed and nominated me as Minister four months ago. This is a responsibility that I am aware of, and I believe that change will not affect governance, because in the end, a management programme is being implemented that is well-defined, with specific managers and deadlines, as a result of a coalition agreement. I wish you success in all good intentions and good deeds that should happen from here on out! Thanks again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u86	Thank you. The word for speech is Mr. Ivan Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u87	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members! We are worried about the state of the sector. We are concerned about the security sector, given the commitments that Minister Vuchkov has made to the Parliamentary Commission and in the plenary in the adoption of the amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act, which are loaded with many expectations. After months of discussing necessary amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act, widely proclaimed by the ruling majority as a panacea of a number of problems with a long-standing genesis, we are once again at the starting point with the legitimate question: The four-month stay of the Minister in the Ministry of Interior was crowned with some, to a large extent controversial and controversial changes in the basic law of the Ministry, which were not even tabled by the team of the Minister, but by a group of MPs, which raised the doubt that the work of the power office will be dictated from the outside, not from the agenda of exciting society problems in this sector. Here the question must be asked: did we actually see again another maneuver in the direction of how there should be no change in the Ministry of Interior? Purely and simply restored existing orders from previous years and a large part of the texts of the old Act on the Ministry of Interior. The expectations were, according to Minister Vuchkov, to remove these obstacles, because of which the institution is gasping from its own administrative burden and very difficult to fulfil elementary legal obligations, namely the case with these nine thousand clean administration employees, which will continue to be government officials under the Ministry of Interior Act, i.e. first category of work, or the so-called "chantajii" in the Ministry of Interior, as the current prime minister called them. The minister insisted on changes in the categories of labor of the employees in the system. The first one was intended only for workers in the most difficult conditions - firefighters, uniforms and investigators, all others will have to work under the Civil Service Act, will not enjoy the possibility of early retirement, larger annual leave, and most of all on retirement will not receive 20 salaries. All these changes turned out to apply to newcomers at the Ministry of Interior. After all, a slight decoration was made with the change in the current art. 142 of the Ministry of Interior Act with the introduction of a text for civil servants whose status is governed by the Law on the Civil Service Officer, but with the agreement that this will only apply to new employees after 1 April 2015 for posts designated for such civil servants. Is this the reform promised to society and trade unions? Is this the reform that will give security to people and solve the problem of so-called domestic crime? Here I must open the clamp and point out that representatives of trade unions have all been diverted from the discussion held in the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, and we have never heard their opinion on the proposed changes. A text was even adopted that restricts their right to association, as well as other rights of the employees of the Ministry of Interior. This was one side of the coin called the reform in the Ministry of Interior. The other is the reason why we are having today's discussion about the resignation of the Minister of Interior, namely the desire to replace the professional leadership of the Ministry, and not only that. The desire for change has spread to the entire sector. Security.SANS, DATO, Military Intelligence, against the will of the Prime Minister and contrary to the expressed attitude of the partner services concerning the professional capabilities of the designated heads of services. In this case, the worst is that they apply, as the prime minister said, cop tricks, which cast a huge shadow of doubt about the integrity of the intentions of those who prompted the interior minister to take this step, which turned out to be the door of the Ministry. Here the question arises: what signs do we give to the outside world, and how will we ensure that they deal with the reforms in the Ministry of Interior and all that lies ahead of them as a challenge? And not only that, urgent tasks are on the agenda that excite the Bulgarian society, such as the prevention and detection of recent crimes with severe consequences for the public order, expressed in the withdrawal of human life, both related to organized crime and caused by the aggravated domestic environment. Let us not forget the coming spring and concerns about escalating the influx of refugees, especially through the so-called green border. Minister Vukkov has repeatedly expressed his concerns in this direction. They should not be ignored, as this is one of the painful topics for our fellow citizens. The fact is that, at the end of last year, the withdrawal of posted police officers from the Security Police, who deal with security at the state border, began gradually. This was done with the motive to have more police presence in small towns where problems with the so-called domestic crime are identified, but unfortunately, there is no change in the existing situation. The next interior minister should be aware of these problems and make a clear statement that the Ministry will not remain a difficult machine, which has become a target and target of various political ambitions, more or less selfless. A request was made by the Prime Minister that the next Interior Minister would cross such attempts. We will very carefully follow his work and be uncompromising to every single mistake! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u88	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, fellow Members! My line to Mr. Ivanov from BSP and to their coalition partner until yesterday is that I was able to understand one thing from all this literary reading that they did. What I understand is that they will not support the proposed personal changes to the Council of Ministers and will vote against. I must tell you that this makes me very happy and relieved, and so do my colleagues from the Reformation Block, because when we are criticized by the BSP and the DPS, we know that we are doing the right thing. So thank you for this criticism. We're gonna keep doing the right thing! Another thing I'd like to draw your attention to. I understand that you cannot say to Mr. Vukkov: "Thank you, Mr. Minister, for what you have done, and the efforts you have made for reform, for the attempts and efforts you have made to restore the damage that your majority majority of reasons for the security sector. Obviously, you can't say that. But try at least to understand that it is possible that there are people, especially in the Interior Ministry, who are really trying to manage this office intelligently at some point when they have a difference with the Prime Minister's position, to withdraw themselves, and not to cling to power, as you normally do, and as was the maxim of blood you have taken it, with blood you will give it. The last thing I finish with is because it has already been mentioned several times, albeit not as part of the item on the agenda, for the service "Military information" and the personnel changes there. Ladies and gentlemen of BSP and DPS! There's no way that when a man who was a high-ranking civil servant didn't comply with the law, he would be tolerated. Obviously, he'll be replaced. The law will be implemented and this archive of the intelligence management of the Bulgarian People's Army, which has nothing to do with modern intelligence, will be handed over to the body that legally must preserve it and which must assess...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u90	Time's up, Mr. Slavov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u91	...were Bulgarian citizens or these persons in this archive were not, and whether they would be made public at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u92	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u93	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Thank you for making such remarks, but they are typical in the spirit of what is happening right now. I think that the assessment and thanks of the Minister of Interior Vuchkov, to whom we will vote today the resignation should be made by you and the Prime Minister, not by the opposition. We have made our assessment of his work. A really professional is leaving the system. I think in my speech I have made a sufficient assessment of why it has come to this. So on your shoulders is Mr. Vuchkov's resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u94	Any other MPs? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u95	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! Mr. Vuchkov, in my personal capacity, I would like to thank you for accepting all criticism and for the first time in the Ministry of Interior in your person there was a hearing of these criticisms and reactions. Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, dear colleagues! In fact, you are facing a really serious problem of Bulgarian society today. It is perfectly natural that this problem, called the lie, should be solved precisely by a sociologist. Is there a better professional than a sociologist who can tell lies from the truth?! Because today, dear Mrs. Bachvarova, you will have to distinguish false political speech, which accuses Bulgarian doctor.. Minister of Health, who took the Hippocratic oath to help the citizens, to be accused of racism and xenophobia. You will have to distinguish lies when political speaking protects cruel crime, and this domestic crime, which is committed in the most cruel way against our mothers and fathers retired in small towns. You, Mrs. Bachvarova, will have to give an answer as Minister of the Interior to several extremely important questions that interest the Bulgarian society. The first of these questions, Mrs. Bachvarova, is why are Bulgarian MPs from the DPS party moving with a cordon of guards? What are these MPs worried about? Is crime or are they not themselves part of organized crime to move with such a cordon of guards?! You will have to give an answer, in fact, by what means is this security being paid, are these legally acquired and how are these MPs placed, using such expensive security?! You, dear Mrs. Bachvarova, will also have to answer other important questions that excite the Bulgarian society as future Minister of Interior and responsible for internal security. Because have we forgotten, honourable Members, that an internal and national security issue is the attempt to bring down the banking system in Bulgaria?! Have we forgotten, honourable Members, that this experience costs the Bulgarian people 4 billion. Lev?! However, dear Mrs. Bachvarova, Bulgarian society and we, the MPs, have not received an answer as to what is the role of the appointments of the DPS on these important portfolios. How and why did the Department of Finance Intelligence remain silent? How, and why, with the involvement of the Interior Minister appointed on a proposal from the DPS, was the entire Ministry of Interior not involved? You will have to, dear Mrs. Bachvarova, give an answer to the harsh attacks on the honour of the employees of the Ministry of Interior, who have been pushed, publicly humiliated by MPs before the entire Bulgarian society, but there was no reaction to this issue by the Ministry of Interior. You will have to answer how precisely this political power, which calls itself nationally responsible, has actually turned the crime of buying votes into a business. You, dear Mrs. Bachvarova, will have to build a slender system through which Bulgarian minorities will finally feel the power of statehood, which will happen when internal security is guaranteed with clear and precise rules. You have one advantage. This advantage of yours is the advantage of a woman's mother, because there is no more advanced feeling of storage than a mother's feeling. So, on the one hand, unburdened with the dirt that has happened over the years under the political dictatorships of the Ministry of Interior, you will today have to assume the responsibility to develop everything good that Mr. Vuchkov had started in the Ministry of Interior system. Yes, the Patriotic Front will support your candidacy with clear intentions that we must strictly, precisely and very quickly not receive signals, the people must see that there are actions. Even in the Holy Scriptures, the Bible says that we will be recognized by works. The Bulgarian people do not need signals, the Bulgarian people need action. Pushing towards inaction by the political power, called the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, is exactly the anti-state behavior that some leaders of this party are trying to push not only the internal security system, the Ministry of Interior system, but the entire state statehood. Now that's irresponsible behavior. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u96	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Tsvetanov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u97	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers, honourable Members! Today's item on the agenda is the personal change to the Council of Ministers. We all gave our trust four months ago and formed the parliamentary majority, which supported the policy of the current government. Of course, when there is a resignation, it is the Prime Minister's right to determine the person he will trust so that he can actually continue the policy and reforms that have been initiated at the Ministry of Interior. I would like, on behalf of our parliamentary group, to strongly state that the support for Rumyana Bachvarova will be fully, in full capacity. In the last seven days, we have seen a lot of speculation and a lot of suggestion. Of course, the opposition is in its right to resign from a worthy person in the face of Veselin Vuchkov for his personal reasons, to turn this debate and to deviate from the subject in essence about the staff and the change proposed by the Prime Minister. There were assessments for the hundred days of the government and the resignation, which is being considered today, of course, and the nomination of Rumyana Bachvarova. Dear colleagues on the left, have you forgotten that just a year and a half ago you managed in the conditions of enclosures around the Bulgarian Parliament? Did you know that in such a distrust, you had to leave much earlier so that we could actually bring the state back to the only possible right path for the European one? The government of Boyko Borisov makes it strong with the parliamentary support of the parties supporting these reforms, I assure you. What the government is doing, you are doing everything you can to get away from the theme of good policies. No one talks about what the Bulgarian government does. Personal assessments were given for members of the Council of Ministers. I just want to remind you that the Energy Efficiency Programme is going to have an effect on Bulgarian citizens. You know that with the Energy Act adopted last week, there will be an opportunity to reduce the deficits that the sector accumulates annually, and only with the legislative change, amounting to 300.350 million leva less deficit. Why didn't you talk about these things? Why didn't you talk about the money the government of Boyko Borisov managed to return as trust from Brussels and at the end of 2014 to restore operational programs and to repay more than 1 billion. lv. [[Replications from the MPs Mihail Mikov and Atanas Merdjanov.]] These are all complex measures, an integrated approach to the implementation of sectoral policies and, of course, a reformist spirit that exists in the current government. Honourable Members of all parliamentary parties, when we come out and from this platform we are talking about hatred and opposition, I strongly say to you that the GERB Parliamentary Group will not enter this debate. Political party GERB is the only party that gave the opportunity and alternative to all Bulgarian citizens regardless of their ethnic origin. We are not going into interpersonal contradictions, because when you don't have political arguments, when you don't have real policies, of course you're going into personal attacks and you're looking for aggression and rematchism, which, of course, we've been watching for 25 years. I can clearly state that in the first management term GERB has made its mistakes as well. The conclusions we have made are that we really need to stop fighting and give a real alternative with real policies. From this tribune we heard each gave an assessment of who generated this hatred. Ladies and gentlemen, it is from this parliamentary tribune that parliamentary parties are responsible for the hatred that we impose on Bulgarian society. That is why the parliamentary group of GERB will not enter into this debate. The parliamentary group of GERB and the government of Boyko Borisov were able to enable worthy Bulgarian Turks to participate in the government. We have a representative in Bulgarian politics and, of course, ministers such as Vejdi Rashidov, Altimir Adamov, who is in the Parliamentary Group of GERB, Deputy Minister Fezi Bekir, also Dr. Persenski from a mixed region in Kardzhaliyski region. I can clearly tell you that with the appointment of Deputy Governor Selime Kardzhalieva, we must give a very clear sign of how we should make policy, not a policy of opposition. When there are distressing areas today, and here I would like to thank the government specifically for the actions taken and the coordination that has been carried out so that the normal rhythm can actually return to the settlements where there is a disaster today. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u98	Why isn't he talking about it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u99	I would definitely like to state: the reforms that have been launched in the sector of Security are reforms supported by a large part of the Bulgarian MPs in the Forty-third National Assembly. These reforms have started with discussions and debate, and I must definitely state that the GERB Parliamentary Group will submit a legislative package for the security services.................................................................................. You know that in the Forty-first National Assembly this legislative package had to be adopted at second reading. I would like to assure you that, in the debate on the topic of sector security, we will not take credit for everything we import as a legislative package. We will also give all parliamentary parties a chance to participate actively in this debate and to vote on laws that will actually be the first, essentially, to be adopted for the special services. In the Forty-second National Assembly we had the desire, we wanted to have this debate essentially, but you did not give us the opportunity when we introduced this legislative package when hatred and confrontation were the policy of the ruling majority with Prime Minister Plamen Oresharski. My fellow Members, once again, I would like to call on: let each of us conclude whether we should make suggestions from the parliamentary platform, whether we politicians should have personal assessments of certain individuals and whether we should talk about this division, which each of the parliamentary parties represented may have certain objectives in relation to the upcoming local elections. I assure you that the GERB Parliamentary Group will participate in any debate on the substance, there will be no personal attacks. We have enough political arguments to stand up for a principled position. I assure you that the parliamentary group of GERB will vote on the resignation of Veselin Vuchkov because it is his personal act. I would also like to express my strong support for the proposal, which makes the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, with the appointment of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior in the face of Rumyana Bachvarova. Mrs. Bachvarova, you will receive the same support that Minister Vuchkov received. You will receive this parliamentary support so that the truth can come out to the Bulgarian society and make common efforts to combat both serious organized crime and the most sensitive topic for Bulgarian society, and this is domestic crime. I would like to remind everyone that domestic crime is a commitment of all parliamentary parties, a commitment of all members of the executive power and, of course, not small is the responsibility of the local authorities. That is why there must be this coordination and this interaction, because always everyone, of any crime, can make political statements, make certain suggestions. I believe that each of us should be sufficiently responsible when going out on the parliamentary stand and must stand up for our principles on the basis of political objectives and, of course, the management programmes that are being defended in the election campaign. I would like to thank everyone who will support the new Home Minister nomination in the face of Rumyana Bachvarova. I can assure you that it is not the minister who manages a ministry. The law governs the ministry, and the forty-third National Assembly voted precisely this law, which Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova must implement and, of course, when there are proposals for legislative changes, to be supported after broad public discussion and demand for political and public consensus. [[Private applause on the right.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is why I call you to vote on conscience, to give chance and credit of trust to Rumyana Bachvarova, because otherwise we will walk again in this plane of opposition and we will waste valuable time. The Bulgarian voters and those who are watching us today, what we are having as a debate, I can tell you that we have substantially deviated from the important point for which the entire Council of Ministers is present today. So I suggest every next statement, let's stick to the point, and if there's nothing substantial [[bSP LB loud noise and lines]] Let's move on to a vote for which I thank you. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u100	- What's the line? In the manner of conducting the procedure, Mr. Merdjanov. [[Noise and lines.]] Then the lines. [[Reply by National Representative Valentin Kasabov.]] Mr. Kasabov, I saw you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u101	Madam President, I'm taking a procedure in the manner of conduct. We have just become listeners to one speech, which was about all the other topics, but not the one we are discussing right now. I ask you to adhere strictly to the Rules not only to the representatives of the Political Party GERB to be benefited as privileged participants in the discussion. [[Shout: What did you say?!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u102	Whatever you want to know.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u103	First line, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u104	I take this line to you, Mr. Tsvetanov, to express my disagreement. I do not agree that all parliamentary groups here are generators of evil. This, how can I say, good political talk does not work for anyone? it is a political courtesy. Clearly and categorically, it must be said which is exactly the parliamentary group that generates evil and hatred, and this is the DPS Parliamentary Group. [[Noise and lines.]] The same ones that throw themselves and protect some of that ethnicity that we call half-life...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u105	Please, Mr. Kasabov...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u106	I would call them the lost link between Neanderthal and Homo sapien. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u107	Mr. Kasabov, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u108	Tell me how tolerant I can be when they kill our children for 5 leva?! How tolerant can I be when the law doesn't work? How tolerant can we be when they destroy and rape our elderly parents? When it boils hate in every normal person. Then we seek retribution. Then the full force of the law must be applied. In this sense, we clearly and categorically need to divide the parliamentary groups represented and separate one group, which in a definite way actually leads the country to the abyss, to the evil that constantly generates this hatred and blames everyone else. So I can't share that statement with you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Everyone must bear their responsibility both as a parliamentary group and as a separate person. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u109	Your cue time is up, Mr. Kazabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u110	In this sense, we clearly and categorically distinguish ourselves from the DPS, because Bulgaria's greatest evil is precisely the DPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u111	Thank you. Second line, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u112	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members! Mr. Tsvetanov, my line is three points. Firstly, you are talking about dialogue and dialogue in the changes to the Ministry of Interior Act. Were you at the so-called public discussion, did you hear what the NGOs told you? That's a lie you made out of the parliamentary tribune. Secondly, you are talking about the lessons from your previous government, in which you were the Minister of Interior, and did you hear the leader of GERB Party in his assessment of the shortcomings of governance in his mandate 2009-2013, about the shortcomings in terms of police and fiction? Thirdly, do not speculate and try not to suggest that this resignation of Veselin Vuchkov is for personal reasons and that it is personal. This is an act by Mr. Vuchkov regarding his absence in relation to the reform of the Ministry of Interior, the way in which it should be conducted, and the footage to carry it out, Mr. Tsvetanov. It essentially fulfilled its purpose because we eventually have future shifts of professional figures in the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u113	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u114	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Ministers and Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! I said that all in one form or another we generate tensions in the Bulgarian Parliament, which also reflects on the Bulgarian society, without exception. "Even in similar debates when the political party GERB participates, although we do not want to participate in this opposition. However, let me tell you that when I had the opportunity to visit many mixed regions, I was in the Kardzhali region two days ago, I did not speak against the DPS. I spoke with the worthy Bulgarian Turks and Bulgarian mohammedans who were interested in the policies made by today's government. In this way, I assure you that we are able to gain more sympathizers and supporters in order to really change the political configuration in Bulgarian political life. I can strongly tell you that at the moment there will be elections in the town of Sarnitsa, our candidate Mustafa has not once said an insulting word against our political opponents, although our political opponents are attacking our candidate. [[Voices: "On the theme! "]] Because what is important to us is that we can actually, with discussions and with policies, give people the opportunity to choose by conscience. As for your reply, Mr. Iankov, I am very sorry that you did not attend this public discussion about the reforms that will be made in the sector. They were made on July 31st, even before the parliamentary elections, because GERB Party is a party that does not offer policies in parliament, but before entering parliament and occupying its management mandate. [[Noise and lines.]] This meeting was attended by former Federal Minister of Germany Friedrich, attended by former Bulgarian ministers Yordan Sokolov, Rumen Petkov, Yordan Bakalov and all colleagues who actually have their expertise and can give their opinion. As far as the assessments are concerned, I believe that the Bulgarian voters are the ones who determine what the ratio in the Bulgarian Parliament should be. In voting on confidence by a parliamentary group or parliamentary groups to the Prime Minister, he is entitled to elect a team with which he will have his own management mandate. In this direction I understand you because there is nothing to explain to your constituents, and you must make possible intrigues, suggestions and speculations precisely from the parliamentary platform. [[Applause from GERB.]] I thank you because this allows GERB to become stronger and you to become weaker. Thank you. [[BSP LB lines. Applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u115	Any other MPs to take part in the debate? Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u116	Dear Madam President, please stop the cameras so that the Prime Minister of Bulgaria can stop looking at this debate in the GERB group, come to the Chamber and look us in the eye. [[Voices: "Eeeee!" by GERB.]] It's kind of disrespectful that half the time he's not in this room listening to what he's told. Mr. Vuchkov, first of all, let me express my not regret, but rather admiration for what you have done. I confess that I have heard absolutely no reproach towards you regarding corruption or involvement in wiretaps or any such thing. I think what you did was dignified. But, Mr. Vuchkov, I want you to come out here and say as a man the real reason for your resignation. [[GERB lines.]] Because the arguments that you said: there was a legal argument, they didn't answer my phone for six days, and some of those things, but it's not an Indian series. You are Bulgaria's Home Minister, you are responsible for reform, for fighting domestic crime, for fighting organized crime, for all these things. This cannot depend on whether the Prime Minister answered your phone for five days or not. Another point is that it is absolutely insane for the Prime Minister not to answer his internal minister's phone. There is no other country like this! At least I don't know that thing. Mr. Wuchkov, I've resigned as well. A resignation is always the result of a build-up of several things "first, second, third, fourth, fifth. I don't believe the reasons are what you said. In your only TV interview, you said something very important that the first nuts of the model are unscrewed and you are afraid that we will stop there, and will kill rust again. [[Voices: "Who?" on the left side of the room.]] Today, you have said something else very important, and I quote: the fate of the reforms in the Ministry of Interior is at stake. Who jeopardized the fate of the reforms in the Ministry of Interior? Prime Minister Borisov? Is that why you resigned?! [[GERB lines.]] There's no one else! That is why I wanted Prime Minister Borisov to be here now and to answer: did he threaten the reforms in the Ministry of Interior? Because the resignation of a minister is in fact a vote of mistrust to his prime minister, simple and clear, nothing more! This is not a personal act, absolutely not! This is not something he has decided for personal reasons except in certain cases, but your case is not such. Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, you have many positive traits, you are a woman. It is nice for many women to enter Bulgarian politics and management places. You are not part of circles and circles inside the Ministry of Interior, which I think is dignity. You have full confidence in the Prime Minister, which is extremely important. I'm sure he'll answer your phone. However, I would like to ask you the question: are you really aware of what you are dealing with? Are you aware that this Ministry, firstly, has a billion leva budget that you must somehow manage? Are you aware that you've never even been close to this system, apart from maybe getting your personal documents? Have you ever been to the police station? Do you know the directorates in this Ministry? Can you even spell them out? Do you know how many things you don't enjoy, you'll have to do? How are you gonna get the Ministry of Interior out of hiding the smuggling channels? Do you think there's no police there? Of course there is! How are you going to get the Ministry of Interior out of handing an umbrella to a possible type of crime? Do you think there's no police there? Of course there is! Are you going to dig with excavators like my colleague Tsvetanov used to? We remember such statements. How are you gonna deal with domestic crime? Because it's not something a person does, going there as a political figure. They need knowledge! Where's your legislative expertise? Have you ever dealt with this thing? I'm starting to fear, my fellow Members, that in this government, it has become a relapse for everyone to deal with what they don't understand. The colleague Enchev mentioned several examples here. It was not farmers in defence, football fans in the Ministry of Economy, philosophers in EU funds and whatnot. [[Laughter and excitement in GERB.]] Well, take at last and everyone to do the professional stuff! Mrs. Bachvarova, do not count on being the link between the Reformation bloc and GERB, because I am convinced that tomorrow the Reformation bloc will be the first to give up on you. [[RB lines.]] Here, colleague Radan Kanev has a habit of congratulating the Prime Minister with some songs every time, I remember, although lately he has given up this habit. I'm curious this time which song will he congratulate you with? Wouldn't it be with the song of Chrisco and Maria Ilieva, do you remember? [[Noise, laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u117	Mr. Kadyev, please keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u118	Not to end it, fellow reformers, that you are only watching the Minister of Interior throw himself, as you are watching the current minister throw himself and how he gives himself away and then you are explaining how good a minister he is, but how good it is that he has left. This is what we will vote against today, Mrs. Bachvarova. Thank you. Good luck to you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u119	- What's the line? Here's a line, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers! Dear Mr. Kadiev, just to remind you that of this one billion you spoke of and the worries Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova will have, 936 million. lv. They're going for wages. It's a fund. It's a work salary. Twelve million is capital expenditure and 72 million is alimony. So these concerns are quite unfounded and I think that perhaps the Ministry of Interior is the ministry that uses the least money to actually improve the conditions of the Bulgarian police officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u121	Second line, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u122	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! I feel for you, Mr. Kadyev, I understand. Some Filipinos here you brought for the Minister what he's going to do, how he's not going to do. I want to assure you that Mrs. Bachvarova is a minister from GERB and will remain from GERB because in 2014 when we updated the budget when you left before the fences that were guarding the police instead of being among the people were raised, you said that the minister of finance, who was from your parliamentary group, was not your minister, Mr. Kadiev, and you did not communicate with him. No, we will communicate with Mrs. Bachvarova as announced here and colleagues from the groups who support this management. That's not what you understand, dear Mr. Kadyev. [[Prime Minister Boyko Borisov enters the Chamber]] because a coalition agreement was made, it was signed, unlike you, when you didn't want to, you were saying, "We're going to do some kind of program, and you left.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u123	Third line? Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u124	Colleagues, I didn't continue the song because it's quite cynical and I thought they were listening to little kids.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u125	You would have just been stopped, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u126	Dear colleague Tsvetanov, one of the tasks of this minister will be not only to distribute the salaries provided for in the budget, but to assess what is done with these salaries. To assess how much the staff of the Ministry of Interior will be, whether there will be increases or not. Just because 936 million is paid doesn't mean nothing will be done there. On the contrary, the reform of the Ministry of Interior also includes a reform of the entire administration of the Ministry of Interior, as a reform of the way the services work, of the morality that is there and of everything else. I keep asking because I saw that the Prime Minister has now entered: who threatened the reforms in the Ministry of Interior? Because the Minister is leaving because of the threat of reforms in the Ministry of Interior. Mr. Borisov, did you jeopardize the reforms?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u127	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u128	Is it because of you that the Minister is leaving?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u129	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u130	Is this his no-confidence vote on you? That's it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u131	Yes, it is, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u132	That's right, of course. Well, I just heard from Mr. Tsvetanov that they continued to support him. So what do we do now? [[GERB lines.]] So he gives you a no-confidence vote and they support him? [[Comments from GERB: "Intriguant! "]] Colleagues, this is a matter of national security. Don't make sure that from today's debate you get something that ultimately jeopardizes national security more than you did yesterday. We can joke here, but what is happening is not good for Bulgarian national security. At the moment you have decapitated three offices, a resigned minister and a complete ambiguity of what is happening to crime in the country. That's what's happening right now. Where's national security? You're fired... I mean, Minister, you've got missing Military Intelligence, you've got GDBOP, they're coming out right now... [[GERB lines.]] You have DANS who are beheaded and Secretary General who is decapitated.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u133	You have the back, Mr. Kadyev. You should have responded to your replicating MPs. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Any other MPs for a statement? Atakas didn't take the floor. Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. I hope you'll let BNT's cameras work.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u135	Certainly, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u136	We've heard a lot of speeches. I don't want to give you any sense, but I think it would be right for Mrs. Bachvarova to tell you what her views are and then there should be debates. And it was the other way around. There were people here who said they'd support her, but I don't know why. The best quality we've heard about her is that she was a woman. That's undeniable, but I don't know if that's enough. [[GERB lines.]] The other thing we didn't hear is that the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior and the head of the DANS should go away. Why they had to go, it didn't make sense either. I watched all kinds of TV shows during the week, and I couldn't figure out what they were doing wrong. Why do they have to go? Because they have to go, there's no answer to that. Without arguments, there's some kind of discussion about this whole shift. But it's not that important to me. There are also questions as to what was the real reason Mr. Vuchkov resigned. Remember that on March 4, 2015 the head of the FBI was here. Here's the real reason, the chief came and said the head of the Ministry of Interior, the DANS and the Secretary General will be replaced. Why? He knows because the services of the Americans must be mastered, since we are at war. [[Laughter]] That's clear! Isn't it clear that the entire government of the six-year coalition is dictated by the American Embassy, 16 Koziyak Street? That's where the directives come from, that's where the appointments come from. So it doesn't make any sense to discuss whether a man, a woman or someone from the third sex would head the Ministry of Interior. Whatever! They're just gonna run the directives. That's clear! That is why this is not a fatal question for us, nor will we embark on a poetic outpouring. I heard even a poeticist here just now. I hope they don't suggest that this party, which is called the Patriotic Front, will not offer a cult to the mother goddess, because things are going that way. We've heard a lot of poetry, a lot of essays and a lot of nagging. We also heard something else. There was a big detour from the subject. Madam President, you should have stopped, intervened, because there was a big diversion from the subject here in a dispute between two parties that were actually coupled vessels. I mean the Patriot Front and the DPS. Since there are obviously elections at the moment, the Patriotic Front now raises the DPS ball and hardens their electorate so that in the local elections they can get their results, which may now be in question. Because they're not in power, at least not entirely. I so appreciate the debates that revolved around the so-called Ethnic theme. Just to tell you that such a concept of Bulgarian Turks does not exist, it is an oxymoron. There are Bulgarian citizens. That's it! [[Applause by "Attacka."]] The hardening of the DPS electorate will certainly raise the results of the local vote, for which they should send a thank-you letter above all to the Patriotic Front, as well as to their supporters from the Reformation Block, who now feel obliged to speak on this subject. As for the Ministry of Interior, I personally did not graduate from the School in Simeonovo as colleague Petrov [[replying from the bottom of the hall]] But I've had some impressions from the Ministry of Interior, and I've seen this institution become a political instrument. I've seen the cops get in the way or stay out of it. We've seen this with our own eyes in the many coups here, and so forth. The paid protests last year actually carried out a coup, here a Bulgarian Maidan was made, and we saw the police standing by with their hands on vandalizing elements that break, throw, burn, and the police do not bother them. I am convinced that the Ministry of Interior will remain a political instrument with Mrs. Bachvarova, because this is the way it ranks from 16 Kozyak Street. The Ministry of Interior should be the instrument to guarantee colonialism in Bulgaria. And that's how it's gonna be. I am only afraid that Mrs. Bachvarova will be appointed to this post to make an abbreviation, which you call here by the name of "Reforms." I've never been able to figure out what reforms you mean? But they're usually cutbacks. There will probably be major dismissals at the Ministry of Interior and I am now warning that the police who are now watching and listening to us are expecting unemployment. At first, the Ministry of Interior is not functioning well at the moment. They don't have money for elementary activity, they don't have equipment, sometimes they don't have gasoline, and we want them to deal with crime. This is not going to happen and I do not see how Mrs. Bachvarova will do it because the situation in Bulgaria is set so that we can be a country in which the crime of violence, people to be afraid, to be poor, to be slaughtered and to be slaughtered. I do not see exactly how she will deal with these cases, with these barbaric murders and rapes, which have been cited and shown here, have been set as an example. Yeah, they're everyday. How exactly are they going to be stopped with tolerance, with Euro-Atlantic tolerance, which is the main policy of the ruling six-year coalition? That's not gonna happen! Neither will the so-called domestic crime be stopped, nor will people cease to fear for their lives and possessions not only in the province, but in Sofia and in the major cities. I do not see any change, that is why I propose, because the issue is resolved is clearly that Mrs. Bachvarova's candidacy will be voted, obviously this has already been agreed, the support parties from the six-year coalition have already agreed with the government, with the main party GERB. However, I would like to tell them that I will disappoint them a little, because they expect that by supporting Mrs. Bachvarova's candidacy, they will have an umbrella for buying votes during the local elections. It's not gonna happen! Just GERB will play their game, and for you there will be nothing left, Patriots and Reformers. So don't get your hopes up! [[Applause by "Attacka."]] As always, the Ministry of Interior will be an umbrella to vote-buying, to secure the brokerage movements there, in the Gypsy neighborhoods, and everything will be as we have seen it before. I wish Mrs. Bachvarova a healthy health! She really is a woman, I make sure of that. [[Elevator bell dings]] . I'm sure that's a good quality. March 8th is over, but nothing! We can close the debate here if you want, Madam President, and move on to the vote. After all, there are other questions from our program. Thank you, I'm leaving time for a line. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u137	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. - What's the line? First line? Mr. Valeri Simeonov raised his hand first.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u138	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I had decided not to mention the Attack Party in the near future, but Mr. Siderov's statement provoked me. I will be forced, Mr. Siderov, to draw attention to you that with this presentation, raising a ball and other football terms you are quite profanizing a very heavy issue for Bulgaria in two directions. I'm reminding you! My speech, first of all, has been dictated since the age of 30 of this tragic date when seven Bulgarian citizens were killed at Bunovo Station, of which two children. That's not lifting the ball. The second reason was the increased criminal crimes, domestic crimes committed by representatives of the Gypsy ethnicity against defenceless children and elderly people. Those were the two reasons for my declaration. I cannot be held responsible for the DPS leader's 25-minute speech. But it's not handing the ball. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] You're forcing me to ask you two quick questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u139	Please, quickly, because you don't have time for the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u140	I'm done with one sentence. Why weren't you on the 30th anniversary of the tragedy in Bunovo? Why wasn't your party? And the second question, why have you not mentioned a word against the DPS for two years?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u141	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u142	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Because the Reformation Bloc was mentioned, with this fake patriotic pathos you're addressing here. [[Replications by National Representative Volen Siderov]] I would like to remind you that our country was condemned in Strasbourg for the fact that your proficient activists and sympathizers vandalized a cultural monument in the center of Sofia that they deprived people of their rights to confess their own religion. And another thing, Mr. Siderov, your patriotic tears don't pass! To make it even clearer, Moscow doesn't believe in tears, he wants you to act! [[Single applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u143	Another line? I won't. The hole, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u144	I knew my speech would trigger lines because there are people with a guilty conscience. Was I on the 30th anniversary of the terrorist act? I was not because you turned it into a casion event, Mr. Simeonov, to which your main pride is that you invited the Prime Minister and other ministers from the party who voted in January 2012 the declaration I mentioned just now, the declaration condemning the entire Bulgarian people for having conducted ethnic cleansing! You, the Patriotic Front, do you agree with that?! You obviously agree if you accept your partnership with GERB and with the blue ones who offered this disgraceful declaration for Bulgaria. It is on this statement that we are sued in Strasbourg, Mr. Karadjov, to answer to you as well. As for the subject, I spoke and said: You are some late puberty. Now you think it's very prestigious or very interesting to speak against the DPS. I am the first person to put this topic in Bulgarian politics. Then you were candidates from the lists of Ataka, fighting to enter from the lists of Ataka. You're a different party now. That's right, that's life! However, do not think that by practicing on the topic of DPS, you become pò patriots. No, that's not true. And secondly, the DPS was created by the American and English services and was supported by them here. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] So your fair anger against this party, which I've talked about plenty against, I've written plenty when you've dealt with other things, I've done what I have to do. I have done my civic and patriotic duty. I don't need to repeat myself. You are plagiarizing now, repeating mine, stealing them, pretending to be pò licensed patriots, but this does not help you escape the fact that you are voting together for both the budget and the debt you are voting together with the DPS. And you said in the negotiations to form a coalition that you wouldn't mind if the DPS were involved and supported. You didn't mind. Then find out exactly whether you are against the DPS or for the DPS! It's that you're lifting their ball, that's a fact. Now, their electorate is mobilizing. As you have heard, they will have a special meeting, they will get people out and vote with much greater excitement, so they will have much better choices. Mark my words, write it down, and you'll see that's the result. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u145	Statements? There's two other people to talk about. Mr. Atanasov has declared a wish, and Mr. Ermenkov has also stated a wish. Mr. Atanasov, your parliamentary group has 2 minutes and 6 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! Today the topic is a personal change in the Council of Ministers. Here many colleagues used the fact that the cameras and microphones of the national media were on to settle their relations. First of all, I would like to say to Mr. Vuchkov: Mr. Vuchkov, the most important quality of a lawyer is to make his decisions on internal conviction. You have that quality. Mrs. Bachvarova, in my experience, I am telling you: a system is much more efficient than a person who is not a product of the system. To colleagues on the left because I have little time: you have a long time to pay tax on that your leader Stanishev gave the concession to the security sector of the DPS, so take it easy! [[Single applause from GERB and RB.]] And with regard to DPS colleagues: have some shame! Have some shame when you talk about who created the mafia in Bulgaria, because I want to ask you where is Biserov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u147	Are you saying that from personal experience?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u148	Where's Biserov?! You created an encircling corps to control the economy, and we need to get you out of there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u149	And you, Kostov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u150	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Ermenkov has the floor. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u151	Honourable President, Prime Minister, honourable cabinet members, honourable Members! We are witnessing another resignation today. Two weeks ago we witnessed a resignation, and then I mentioned to you about our mutated dragon with one head and many tails to break. Today, I just want to tell you this. It seems to me that this resignation, which we are currently voting on, was in fact a well-played act to remove two employees from the Ministry of Interior, one is the Secretary-General, the other is the Chairman of the SANS, because in the end, after the resignation they will be removed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u152	Did you think of that yourself?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u153	And I'm asking you, Mr. Wuchkov, because that was the reason for your resignation, don't you feel like a used piece of dirty tissue that they wiped off and threw away for this thing? And I ask you, Mr. Vuchkov, don't you feel like a pawn in a party of ladies' gambit, where you are sacrificed, perhaps so that whoever is there can win the party?! And I ask the Prime Minister because he mentioned that this resignation was accepted under external and internal pressure, is he moving the chessboard, or are they king and queen sitting next to him on this board and someone else moving them? [[Laughter, noise and excitement.]] That is what I am asking because we remain convinced that we are not the ones who rule the state, including someone under the code name who is behind these moves. Colleagues, I beg you very much, don't act like a pawn, because the political pawn, unlike the others, is for one single use, and once you sacrifice it, you don't take it out on stage again. Have some dignity! And one final warning to colleagues: do not take care of our constituents! We'll deal with them. See how your relationship with some of you will be, of course, with the guards! Thank you. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u154	- What's the line? I won't. The word is Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u155	Dear Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, fellow ministers, honourable MPs! I listened very carefully to everything you said. I listened very carefully to what was said during the week after my nomination was announced. I thank all those who said good words about me and supported me; and those who expressed skepticism or frank failure. The second especially motivates me and ambitious me to keep working. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Because when I accepted the nomination, I did so with the clear awareness that the Ministry of Interior needs reforms, policies and there is sufficient capacity at the professional level. Since there were many questions to me, I can answer all of Mr. Kadiev's questions with a lot of questions. I entered politics as a sociologist, but now I'm going in if you vote, in this position and in the government as a politician who has a mandate behind him. In the framework of this mandate, I have gained a lot of experience, including in the area of security. I've participated in all the National Security Advisory Councils, the Prime Minister's Security Council, I've dealt with specific cases. But perhaps one of the most important things I have done is the work with Mr. Vuchkov, with whom we have been working on the Security Program of the Political Party GERB since 2008. I accepted this nomination because I know that in the Ministry of Interior the policy of GERB is very well thought out, very well developed and there are no doubts about the direction in which it should go. All that you fear and all the negatives that were mentioned in the work of the Ministry of Interior and the previous management of the Ministry of Interior are inherently foreign. That's why I don't accept accusations, suspicions, and I don't know if it'll be worth disproveing them in my line of work because I'm very keen on results. Two things have become clear from today's debate. First of all, I'm a woman. Thank you all for noticing it yet. [[Radio.]] The second is that, in fact, the priorities of the Ministry of Interior are common to everyone. All the political forces who spoke here commented on my personal qualities, to which they were entitled, speculated politically, gave their comments about the voters. But in practice no one pointed out an alternative to the main priorities before the Ministry of Interior, to the main problems that stand for solving to the Bulgarian society....the domestic crime and organised crime, the migration wave, corruption in the Ministry of Interior, including the purchase of votes, the fight against corruption in society and the reform of the Ministry of Interior. I am convinced that this reform has no alternative because the Ministry of Interior is the face of statehood. If we can't make our face more acceptable and more beautiful, we won't be able to fix our country. This is my mission, I will work for the state and thank Party GERB, my colleagues from the government for supporting me on this. [[Applause from GERB, RB, PF and ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u156	Are there any other MPs from the parliamentary groups having plenary time? I won't. The debate is closed. I suggest to your attention: Project! DECISION for personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with the decision of the National Assembly on the election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 7 November 2014. HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Veselin Borislavov Vuchkov as Minister of Interior. 2. He elected Rumyana Gencheva Bachvarova as Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister for the Interior. Please vote. Vote 208 MPs: 139 against 68, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. With that, point one is over. [[Applause from GERB, RB and PF.]] Let's congratulate Mrs. Bachvarova on her election as Home Secretary. The word has the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u157	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, thank you for voting on the changes. And, in order to bring in a slightly brighter atmosphere, today I found out that Mrs. Bachvarova is a woman. [[Radio.]] For so many years we have been working together, I have never shared people with men and women when I work with them, but this morning when you said to me, "You won't mention when I was born?" [[Radio.]] I thought there was one problem, but actually from what I was listening to today in Parliament, there are two of them, and very serious. On the second, if you'll allow me, I'll stop at the end. I've had a lot of conversations with Mr. Mikov and our lawyers, the Ministry of Finance. Day after day, we have made huge efforts, but you know that the independence of the judiciary is also such that I would not even like to talk to them on this subject. But we need one support, one common front, because I am convinced that all political parties will support what we want or help solve it. The point is to put it on the table right now, to ask the Ministry of Finance, the Budget and Finance Committee this afternoon, we have sent out to the leaders of all the parliamentary groups what we want, perhaps somewhere to have additions, remarks. Since the case is extremely important, there are also specific terms, I wouldn't want someone exercising on my financial competence after that, for a few minutes I will try to read it quickly and then I will say what I ask you to say. By Decision of the Governing Council of the Bulgarian National Bank of 20 June 2014 a Corporate Commercial Bank was placed under special supervision for a period of three months. With the same decision, Quaestors were appointed to the CCB, all CCB's obligations were suspended and the bank's activities were limited and it was forbidden to carry out all activities. The members of the Governing Council and the Supervisory Board of the CCB were removed from their positions, the shareholders holding more than 10% of the shares of CCB were deprived of voting rights. On 16 September 2014 the Governing Council of BNB decided to extend the period of special supervision of CCB by two more months until 20 November. On 20 October 2014 CCB Quaestors submitted reports on three audit firms' analysis and evaluation of the main balance sheet positions and bank guarantees issued to clients of CCB to BNB. Based on the data from the analysis, assessment and conclusion of audit firms on the amount of the necessary impairments CTB reported to BNB negative equity. As a result and on the basis of art. 36, para. 2, p. 2 of the Credit Institutions Act by Decision No 138 of 6 November 2014 of the Governing Council of BNB, the license of CCB was revoked. On 4 December 2014, the Deposit Guarantee Fund in the Banks began to pay off the guaranteed deposits to the deposits at KTB. More than 3.5 billion have been paid at the moment. lv. To this end, the fund spends the funds raised so far from bank contributions and uses a loan granted by the state budget of 1 billion. 650 million. lv. Until now. Meanwhile, after the withdrawal of KTB's license with the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, changes were made to the Law on the Guarantee of Deposits in Banks. 4, para. 3 aimed at suspending the abuse of the authorising acts on the deposit carried out during the special supervision aimed at circumventing the Law and increasing the level of the guarantee on deposits. In addition, a change was made to art. 59 paragraphs 5 and 6 of the Bankruptcy Act declaring themselves invalid in respect of insolvency creditors, except for the part which each of them would have received in the distribution of the cashed assets, the intercepts, regardless of when the two counter liabilities incurred by a creditor or the bank occurred after the date of the insolvency or after the date of the bank's placing under special supervision, if that date was earlier. The operation of these intercepts shall be postponed until the final account has been executed for the distribution of the amounts collected between the creditors.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Mr. Mikov and I have talked several times about legal terms, several laws between which lawyers are dealt, and most of all we have no decision of the court. I'll get to him at the end. The matter is not at all to be underestimated, but I am obliged by this tribune to all of you, for which I insist that you support us. Those changes aim at guaranteeing the interests of creditors and preserving the insolvency table by protecting the proportionate satisfaction of creditors, especially in the case of mass captures that significantly reduce the debtor bank's assets and depreciate the bankruptcy proceedings itself. In the meantime, while the appointment of a trade union is delayed, the bank's assets are being looted in an accessible language. However, these changes prove insufficient to ensure practically the interests of creditors. After the withdrawal of the license by BNB a request was made in a timely manner to the Sofia City Court for the opening of insolvency proceedings of KTB. The Court of Justice has initiated a bankruptcy case and has imposed the safeguard measures provided for in the Law..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... At the same time, the decision to revoke the licence was appealed by the shareholders of the Bank under the Administrative Procedure Code before the Supreme Administrative Court. As a result of the challenge of the revocation of the licence on 24 November 2014, the bankruptcy case of CCB in Sofia City Court was suspended until the final resolution of the administrative dispute. In the first instance, a three-member composition of the SAC by order of 13 January 2015 leaves the complaints received without consideration and terminates the proceedings. That order has also been appealed before the five-member Chamber of States and has already more than a month since the second instance proceedings cannot be initiated. We are all practicing a lot on the topic of judicial reform. Judicial reform doesn't just mean changing this one or that one. Judicial reform means that this is what it means to ensure that it cannot happen! At the same time, the proceedings concerning the request for the bankruptcy of CCB, which in order to preserve the interests of creditors should develop rapidly, have been suspended and may only continue after the final ruling of the SAC. The Quaestors appointed by BNB continue to exercise their powers until the appointment by the Fund of a trade union, which will be possible only after the Bank is declared bankrupt. Today we will propose a service officer to see how he reacts. The bank's assets were reduced to a billion of 834 million by the last published reports of KTB as of 31 December 2014. Accordingly, it also reduces the amount of funds to be reimbursed to the Fund, to the unsponsored depositors and to the other creditors. In addition to reducing the value of assets during the special supervision period, some of the collateral, such as bets on undertakings and mortgages, has been lifted after the withdrawal of the licence, in favour of the CCB on loans granted. Prior to the bankruptcy of the CCB, the actions provided for in the Law to preserve and fill the bankruptcy table, cash out the assets and satisfy the creditors, and the largest creditor is already the state! We have all given billions, and at some point it will turn out that the other creditors have been granted compensation, and there will be nothing there when the state goes. Therefore, today's decision to support, in the fastest way to resolve this issue, ensures that we can raise our money. If any of the Quaestors have allowed themselves to do so by this time, the finance minister will now refer to the prosecution on this subject. The practice shows that the legal framework and the way in which it is applied still do not provide sufficient guarantees to preserve the property of a bank with a revoked licence and to protect the interests of the conscientious creditors to be satisfied by the property of the CCB remaining at the bankruptcy table. Although the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund is responsible for protecting the interests of all creditors in the banking insolvency proceedings and is tasked to monitor the preservation of the assets in the bank and its optimal cashing and distribution, it does not have any control powers in relation to the activities of the Quaestors and the assets of the Bank in the period from the withdrawal of the licence until the Bank's bankruptcy announcement...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Urgent legislative measures are necessary to protect the public interest by further developing the banking insolvency arrangements. It is necessary to consider the possibility, on a proposal from the Fund after the withdrawal of the licence, that the court appoint a temporary trade union under the control of the Fund. This will be a preliminary safeguard measure in cases where the Quaestors are appointed by the BNB as a supervisory measure or measure of the special supervision. Such an opportunity exists in the insolvency proceedings. The powers of the trade union and the Fund should be reviewed and supplemented in relation to the follow-up and return of the insolvency of the illegal deviant assets. Another important problem, which should find a legal solution, is the creation of effective guarantees for speed of the process, both in administrative and civil court proceedings. Since we are proposing the Bankruptcy Act with the relevant motives, they are sent to all the parliamentary groups, I hope quickly, as soon as possible, to do all of this within a week, and to have an old date. Those who have taken the liberty... Look, when it comes to hundreds of millions, some Quaestor can put his head in a bag, right? When and how will he be convicted... In fact, we expect at least a billion and a half, I say at least we can return from what we have given as a state. Let's not say we should get everything back. I am very worried, so I spoke to Mr. Mikov earlier and I do not want to enter into any disputes, God forbid, with the judicial system: if you could draw up a letter to the Supreme Judicial Council on behalf of the Parliament and Radan Kanev, and you, there are lawyers who can write it. Let's introduce them that when it comes to over three and a half billion, the delay in some court decisions, as they say, we don't interfere with their judgments, these are purely administrative acts, with three or four months, means during that time the Quaestors and everyone else there to sell out the property. And we don't have any options, you see, to react. That is the problem on which I hope you will support us. I hope that the Budget and Finance Committee, together with the Finance Minister today, will hold a quick meeting immediately. If there are proposals, questions or anything that could be done more at the moment, we will immediately do so, but we must not let the Bank be looted. It is imperative that this be done quickly. I'm counting on you. Secondly, listening to what is happening in Parliament, I am becoming very worried. My concern is sound. I hope I'm not a bad prophet, but if with that tone and as local elections approach, we're not going to get away with it without ethnic conflict. Some of the colleagues I have great respect for make a little joke about this issue, and it seems like a joke to them. Fortunately, because thousands of checks were done to me for my participation in the revival process, everyone found that I was a firefighter then, that we were sent to protect the harvest. In front of my eyes hundreds of thousands, nearly a million, I was in Dulovo, fortunately, fate then gave me exactly at this end the mayor of GERB to be elected, and the MP we have from the same region, so this is also a great guarantee, but what I saw happened then with the Bulgarian Muslims, this grief that was caused to them, and how the avalanche became out of control afterwards, please, making policy on this, knowing that you were playing with fire. While you're talking about it's a bluff, that they're here playing with us, raising their electorate, that they'll never go in that direction, just now, when the DPS came out and stayed empty here, I asked myself a question: is it better to have them stay here or be somewhere else and talk to us from there? I suggest because my consciousness, my experience, I repeat, I have been in Dulovo for three months and I have seen what is rarely scary. When quoting Kosovo, Crimea, because one is 400, the other 500 km away, you can see whether it is near or far, I do not want to give you advice, this was in Bulgaria just 20 and a few years ago the same. It only saved us from any more casualties. I went as I did yesterday, and I congratulated Mr. Simeonov for being there. I don't think any of the DPS would support blowing up trains with women and children. I'm sure they don't. But I've also been where they died or where they've killed Muslims. I forgot the name of the place, but there are facts, they applauded me when I got there. I am not afraid, and that is why in our party there are many Bulgarian Muslims already. We're competitors with the DPS. They watch as many Christians as they can get into the party, we watch as many Muslims as we can get in. This is the political battle. This is the political battle that prevails. This is a policy that no one can blame the other for doing this. I know how convenient it is to stitch up my DPS. First of all, it's not fair to them, because we don't have any relationship except for this tolerance that I want and I have to BSP, and I have it to attack, if you will, with everyone. My request is that I don't know what votes, who's after what for these empty local elections, don't cross the border. Don't cross the line, I've known this ethnicity for years. As the leadership is inflamed here, you speak with pathos, down this population, which is peaceful, but very carefully monitor the processes. If he feels threatened, if the DPS can attach him to himself, become a victim, then I'm the only one they'll point to. But I want to tell my partners I'm making a huge effort. Mr. Vuchkov, I want to tell you too. In order to have reforms so far in the Ministry of Interior, you don't think that this parliamentary group, which I personally approved, personally proposed and voted these laws, could do it without me, or did it without me, or despite what Mr. Kadyev, respected by me, asks? How do you think this is gonna work? Or can reformers reform health care if Moskov and I don't work together?! At least we have our respect. Mr. Mestan, I want you to know that once they start crossing this line of tolerance that we've all thought about, I'm not going to be in the department. I'm not gonna let $50,000 line up. Souls in front of a mosque and from there to talk to me, and here we are wondering how to get you back to parliament. [[Private applause from DPS.]] But that's what I'm talking about. But, who? What 5 leva. Does GERB have anything to do with it?! Didn't they point a finger at us from that tribune? Where were the reformers and the Protestants then to jump to protect me?! [[Noise and lines.]] Where were you on the street? 100 people were on the street when we pulled GERB off the street after the first rallies. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] There's 100 people left, hey, back here. I respect you very much. I love you very much. A lot of good things the government does, believe it or not, and they'll be fine. I have always treated BSP with great respect to the foreign minister yesterday, and I have repeatedly said about everything you have supported us and what we work together on Schengen and other topics. The state is very fragile if anything can ruin it, so I'm sure you can help me with CCB. For KTB, I'm sure we can save the money. What's lost like money, people say, it's money, we'll catch up. Ethnic peace, I'm in excellent terms, don't provoke them, they'll play it in the end. This is as I told Mr. Vuchkov: a colleague, you are a minister, under you you have appointed three deputy ministers. You've got a Secretary-General under him, you've appointed your Secretary-General. You're assigning the chiefs of staff. What will the Secretary General do against reform? Nevertheless, I said: March 4th is the most inappropriate date, and therefore I sent you the administrative decision that you are not subject to the Law tomorrow will not be blamed for not submitting this decision at the first meeting of the Council of Ministers. I went into surgery on Friday. By Wednesday, it was days off. And you announced in advance that you would propose a new Secretary-General. Is it right for you to offer me a new Secretary-General without agreeing with me? Or is this a feudal ministry, and whatever you want to do, that's what you're gonna do?! Given that this party that I created and made it the first parliamentary power, you expect them to vote on you?! When did I not answer your phone at another time?! When did I come to the Ministry of Interior at least five meetings we had there?! What did I tell you about Pisanchev? I've talked to him, he'll resign, but he'll give it up when it turns out he's not responsible for the Blacks. That's what he told me. If I resign, I will accept the guilt that I have done, and I am not guilty. I said to him, "Okay, we're waiting for the CCB check that's in parliament to see if there's any charges, we're waiting for the prosecution's check on the KTB, and if there isn't, then I'm standing behind you. Until then, we understand each other to work. Because here, BSP colleagues are absolutely correct to say that if on the first day we had stated that we would change these superiors until the law of the Ministry of Interior passed and we had the opportunity to do so, it would have been four months. Then, Mr. Kadyev, the services wouldn't work! Now, for a week, the minister was in his office, coordinating everything.. I am talking about Mr. Vuchkov, for which I thank him his secretary is at this time of work, you saw him in Gorna Oryahovitsa, and Pisanchev is also in his office. We haven't left a vacuum for a minute! Now, unfortunately, we have been delayed, but we are going to the Council of Ministers and we will take a decision on a proposal from Mrs. Bachvarova, who, I guarantee, has absolutely chosen this continuity. There's gonna be a new Secretary-General today. There'll be a new head of the NSA by next week. There's no vacuum! The directors of BOP and the police are new, whom Mr. Vuchkov appointed... how long ago was it? Today at the Council of Ministers, we make the proposal, it goes to the President. When the president signs it... That's the technology. Let's hope he signs it. We can't interfere with him. We're gonna propose to him. [[Reply from BSP LB.]] Colleagues, I'm really counting on the CCB lawyers who are here, those who know about finance, without sharing and looking for guilt, now is the time to save the money and property of CCB, so that afterwards we can be requited. I ask the parliament to send a letter to the Supreme Judicial Council so that there are no declarations to tell them how long we are trying to get our union to protect the bank to manage. Thank you for your attention. I hope you understand! With respect to everyone, thank you. [[Applause from GERB, RB, BDZ and PF, partial applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u158	Colleagues, break till 1:00. Twenty-minute break. At 1:00 p.m., please, in the hall! We'll continue with the program. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u159	Colleagues, the meeting continues with point two of our weekly programme: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CORPORATE SUB-CROATATION. Importers - Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. There is a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance, which Mrs. Yordanova will present to us. We're listening, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u160	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act, No 554-01-38, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 20 February 2015. At a meeting held on 5 March 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Feizy Bekir Deputy Minister of Finance; Lyudmila Petkova Director of the Financial Policy Directorate at the Ministry of Finance; Petya Kopcheva Head of Department in the same Directorate and Dora Nenova Director of the State Aids and Regulations Directorate at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The proposed amendments and additions to the Bill change the initial State aid scheme under art. 189b of the Corporate Income Tax Act. The change is necessary after consulting the European Commission in order to be compatible with EU State aid rules. Large enterprises and irrigation investments are excluded from the scope of the scheme. Another change in the scheme is that the present value of each of the acquired assets set at the date of granting the aid must not exceed a threshold of the remaining equivalent of EUR 500 000. In this regard, a provision is proposed to prohibit the circumvention of the EUR 500,000 threshold by artificially dividing the assets. A requirement is introduced under which the deferred tax must not exceed fifty per cent of the current value of the acquired assets fixed at the date of granting the aid. The reference rate set by the European Commission at 31 December of the year of assignment will be used to determine the present value of the assets. This requirement under the Regulation is proposed in order to strictly comply with the aid intensity. A change is proposed in the definitions for large undertakings and in the definition of short-term undertakings as defined in Commission Regulation (EU) No 702/2014 of 25 June 2014. The project provides that, upon receipt with the final aid identification number of the European Commission by 31 March 2015, the tax relief will also apply to the tax year 2014. The Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill offer similar changes to the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held where representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food expressed their views on the support of the Bill. Members of the Commission also spoke in favour of the Bill. After the discussion was concluded, a vote with the following results was held: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, at first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act, No 554-01-38, submitted by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 20 February 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u161	Thank you. On behalf of the importer, who will propose the bill? The importers do not see Mrs. Menda Stoyanova in the hall. Diana Yordanova is here. Mrs. Yordanova, here are the materials, will you present the Law?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u162	I think it's all clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u163	I won't introduce myself to the law. I'm opening the debate. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u164	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The reform bloc will support the proposed amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Act for several reasons, given that we will thus avoid the risk of declaring aid that we give to farmers as incompatible under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union in the first place. Secondly, certain points were introduced which were highlighted shortly ago in the reasons of the bill, namely the coverage of the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 702/2014 as a legal basis for the scope of the scheme. In addition, with these changes the notified State aid scheme under art. 189b of the Corporate Income Tax Tax Act, representing State aid to farmers, will not fall under the blows of European Union legislation, as I said just now. Limits to 500,000 are introduced. EUR for each of the assets to be invested in. And another restriction, which had previously been valid. The payment of the tax should not exceed 50% of the value of the assets. All these things are aimed at protecting the state, on the one hand, with a view to not being sanctioned by the European Union, on the other hand, we are regulating the aid that will be granted to farmers for the coming calendar year. I call on the MPs to support the bill on corporate income taxation tabled for the first vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u165	- What's the line? [[Reply by National Representative Diana Yordanova.]] Procedure Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u166	Madam President, I have failed to do so for Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Financial Policy Directorate at the Ministry of Finance and Mrs. Petya Kopcheva, Head of the Department of the same Directorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u167	Mrs. Yordanova, by making an offer for admission, how will the guests enrich the debate on this bill, or are we simply justifying one day the absence of their jobs and the rank presence in the plenary? [[Applause from PF.]] A reverse opinion? I won't. [[Noise and lines.]] Either way, I have to put the procedure to the vote. We vote. [[BSP LB.]] Cancel the vote, there is no jurisdiction. Name check: Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - absent Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - absent Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - absent Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - absent Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - absent Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov - absent Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - absent Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - absent Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - here Valentin Stefanov Vasilev - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - absent Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Vyara Mikhailova Tzerovska - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - absent Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - absent Darin Ivanov Dimitrov - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - absent Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - absent Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - absent Dimitar Hristov Zhelev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - absent Emil Dimitrov Raynov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Zdravko Dimitrov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - here Iliya Yankov Iliev - here Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - here Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Andonov Kotev - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Dobreva Marinova - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Krasimira Peneva Anastasova - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - here Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bancheva - here Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - here Maya Bozhidarova Manolova - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - here Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - absent Nevin Halil Hassan - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - here Peter Hristov Bekov - here I will read the colleagues who came in later.. there is a quorum: Ayhan Etem, Aliosman Imamov, Angel Naydenov, Alexander Metodiev, Anton Dolapchiev, Borislav Velikov, Atanas Merdjanov, Aidoan Ali, Boris Yachev, Anna Barakova, Atanas Tashkov, Grozdan Karadzhov, Boyka Marinska, Dzhevdeth Chakarov, Anton Trenchev, Delyan Dobrev, Anna Alexandrova, Daniela Daritkova, Dimitar Bayraktarov, Magdalena Tasheva, Boris Stanimrov, Gemma Grozdanov. There's a quorum, we're moving on. I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission of guests to the Chamber at the point on which the discussion is taking place. They voted 118 MPs: 106, against 3, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests. The debate is open. Are there any MPs who would like to speak? Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u168	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! We from BSP left Bulgaria will support this bill. It is important and expected by farmers, and what is more, we appeal for it to be adopted today on two readings, of course, if the receipt with the final identification number for the aid from the European Commission is already a fact. I am taking this speech to highlight something that I thought was missing in the report of the Budget Commission and the Chairman of the Agriculture Commission, to use that the Minister of Agriculture is here, too, from the scope of the preference options, excluding investment in irrigation. This is very important because we know that this sector in the country needs a great deal of investment, but the reasons of the importer and the European Commission are that there is no water strategy. Therefore, these aid will not be notified as State eligible aid. Madam Minister, I'm addressing you and the Committee on Agriculture, so let's make sure we have such a water strategy. Last year, I think that in the middle of the year, the World Bank Treaty has been ratified to have a project and to adopt it, so my request is to work on it. We will, of course, monitor it and demand that these investments be recognised in the next year and that Bulgarian farmers use them in this so important and important sector for Bulgarian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u169	Thank you. A line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Turnovallisky, your particular note will be answered yes, you are correct. June is the deadline in which, according to the treaty, which was concluded and voted in the National Assembly last year, the World Bank will issue a report. On this report, I have explained many times from the platform that the relevant investments in irrigation facilities will be allowed, both under this state aid, which will be supplemented and under irrigation measures in the Rural Development Programme. Members of Parliament, I would like to be very brief and to explain to you that the proposed bill is extremely important and urgent for farmers, given the deadlines for submitting tax returns. Since 2010, farmers in Bulgaria have benefited from State aid for investments in agricultural holdings amounting to 60% of the corporate tax that has been resold, which is invested in assets. The continuation of this implementing aid for the financial year 2014 depends on the adoption of the Bill which is the subject of discussion at this point and the changes following the comments received by the European Commission are the continuation of the notification of the application of this State aid. Not only is this very important, it is really fast, as said by colleague Mr. Turnovalyski, but the entire agricultural community expects this, even on how to work on its conclusion of the financial year 2014. Since I see that there is a quorum, I would really appreciate it if the Law were voted on today and, in a shortened version, reached its final adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u171	In a shortened version only for proposals between first and second, and not in a shortened version of the Law, right? [[Reply from Minister Desislava Taneva.]] Any other MPs? I won't. There are calls to close the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Corporate Income Tax Act. They voted 122 MPs: for 122, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Procedure Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u172	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Given the importance and urgency of the Law, I propose that the seven-day period should be reduced to three days between the first and second votes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u173	For proposals under the Bill. There's no opposite opinion. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Hristov, the MPs who have proposals under this Second Reading Bill, to use a three-day deadline for their submission. They voted 117 MPs: 117, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously. We're going to the next point in our program. That's what we're going to do. 5, as t. 3 et c. 4 are for tomorrow, namely: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY ANKET COMMISSION ON THE FACTS AND ASSISTANCES RELATED TO THE ACTS OF STATE AUTHORITIES AND [[Mister Desislava Taneva is leaving the Chamber.]] Thank you, Madam Secretary. Importers: Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs.. a continuation of the vote on this draft for a decision of the plenary session, which took place on 5 March 2015. I remind the Members of the National Assembly that the draft decision contains three points. Votes and adoptions have been adopted. 1 et c. 2. Point 1 is for the establishment of a Temporary Committee of inquiry to examine the facts and circumstances related to the actions of state authorities and institutions which should have exercised control and countered the draining of the Corporate Commercial Bank in the period 2009-2014. Point 2 "Commission' under point 2 (c) of the first subparagraph of Article 2 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union'. 1 shall consist of Members of Parliament from all parliamentary groups and their number shall be determined on a proportionate basis. The vote on personal proposals on the management and composition of the Temporary Committee of inquiry is postponed. Mr. Tsvetanov expressed his desire to make proposals on behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u174	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In relation to the proposal made for a Temporary Commission, I propose that this be the case. 3 to have the following version: "Select a guide and a composition of a Temporary Committee of inquiry, a total of 20 members, as follows: "suppose, so that the composition of the Temporary Committee can be specified and no unnecessary interpretations. In this way, I believe that we will actually be able to elect the roll-call staff today, and each parliamentary group has presented its candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u175	Do you offer them on behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group? Make the proposals and we will proceed to the vote. There have been written proposals from the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front, and I expect from other colleagues as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u176	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of GERB we offer: Desislava Atanasova, Vladislav Nikolov, Tsvetomir Mihov, Krasen Krastev, Snezhana Dukova, Anna Alexandrova and Daniela Saveklieva, as Chairman we offer Desislava Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u177	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, proposals have been received for members of the Temporary Committee of inquiry for Mr. Iskren Veselinov and Mr. Boris Yachev. Mr. Veselinov is also proposed as Vice-President, but the draft decision has only president and members. That's why I slowed down on the move to consider the draft decision and your proposal. The draft decision, as tabled, shall be with a chairman and members. You offer as members Mr. Iskren Veselinov and Mr. Boris Yachev. [[Reply of the National Representative Valeri Simeonov.]] There's a proposal for Mr. Honest Veselinov as Vice-President. Am I to understand that you are also making an editorial proposal on the draft decision to have a Vice-President? No. You're giving up. Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. On behalf of the ABB Parliamentary Group, a proposal has been made for a member of the committee to be elected by the National Representative Lachezar Stamenov. From BSP left Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u178	Madam President, honourable Members! On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria we are proposing to the following three of our colleagues: Rumen Gechev, Dimitar Gorov and Filip Popov, and I am also proposing a procedural change in the draft decision for the election of Vice-Presidents. Our proposal for Vice-President of the Commission is for colleague Rumen Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u179	Thank you. On behalf of the Reformation Block, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u180	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Reformation Block, we propose Radan Kanev and Dimitar Tanev as Commissioners and Radan Kanev as President of the Commission. Because of the Group of the Reformation Block, we have expressed a serious will to reveal the truth about the facts relating to the CCB, so we insist on this support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u181	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Mr. Anastasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u182	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group, we propose as members the MPs Yordan Tsonev, Yanko Yankov and Petar Chobanov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u183	Thank you. From the group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center? Here you go, Mr. Yonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u184	Dear Madam President, the Bulgarian Democratic Center will propose its candidate as Commissioner at the next meeting, because we need to move to the committees in this regard. We reserve that right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u185	Mr. Yonchev, this committee is temporary and it does not affect the main activity of the MPs in the Standing Committees, but there is no obstacle to the next sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u186	We know that the Commission is temporary, but we reserve the right to make a proposal at a next meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u187	Thank you. From the Parliamentary Group of Ataka? [[Replication of the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov.]] It's okay, there's no ban on you proposing yourself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u188	Madam President, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of "Attack" as a member of the committee, we propose Nikolay Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u189	Thank you. Colleagues, we have a vote coming up. In the version of "T." 3 essentially has two additions. The first is a clarification of the total number of members of the Commission, which Mr. Tsvetanov proposed. In such a case, the editing will sound as follows: "Select a guide and a composition of the Temporary Committee of inquiry, a total of 20 members, as follows: I put to the vote Mr. Tsvetanov's proposal that the Commission be 20-member. Vote 127 MPs: 123 against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 The draft decision is proposed by the Commission to be President and Members. They did, however, provide you with the proposal of the Patriotic Front, to have a Vice-President, and in the Chamber is supported by BSP left Bulgaria and a direct proposal is made for there to be Vice-Presidents as well. In essence, two proposals have been made by name. I put to the vote the proposal that the Commission have two Vice-Presidents. [[GERB lines.]] We have a proposal for two presidents, but two, one from the Patriotic Front, and one from BSP left Bulgaria, are proposed for Vice-Presidents. We are voting in principle whether or not to have Vice-Presidents of this Commission, we are talking about two. They voted 122 MPs: 60 against 31, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. Mrs. Manolova, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u190	Honourable Members, Madam President! My procedure is to re-vote. I think that all MPs are aware that this Commission will do an important and responsible, difficult job, complicated enough. The broadcasting of Vice-Presidents from the different parliamentary groups will only be a guarantee of the objectivity and responsibility in the work of the Commission. What bothers you about the fact that the patriots and BSP left Bulgaria will have vice-presidents? Are you trying to hide something in this Commission's work? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Please consider once again: if you want us to be responsible for the work of this Commission, it is normal to have a Vice-President and also the Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-11.u191	Colleagues, re-vote. [[Noise and lines.]] They voted 133 MPs: for 60, against 51, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. The proportion distribution in a 20-member commission is as follows: GERB 7, BSP and DPS................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Correctly, in view of the numbers available to the groups, the proposals from the relevant parliamentary groups have been received. I propose that we vote on the members of the Commission. We are voting on the proposed MPs as Commissioners. 135 MPs voted: 133, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Two nominations have been proposed for the President of the Commission. The GERB group proposes Mrs. Desislava Atanasova. On behalf of the Reformation Bloc is proposed Mr. Radan Kanev. In accordance with the order of entry, and in alphabetical order, we should first vote on the proposal for President for Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova, already Commissioner, according to our decision. We are voting for the President of the Commission to be Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova. They voted 130 MPs: for 93, against 11, abstention 26. This proposal is adopted at this stage, but once we see the votes for the second application, it will become clear who will be the President of the Commission. I put to the vote the proposal that the Commission be chaired by Mr. Radan Kanev. They voted 122 MPs: 43, against 19, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. President of the Commission is Mrs. Desislava Atanasova. [[General applause from GERB.]] It's one minute after 2:00. Tomorrow, a regular plenary day with a starting hour of 9:00 p.m. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
