ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Today, we are holding an extraordinary meeting in accordance with the adopted decision of the previous week with an agenda, I recall: 1. Draft Decision on the extension of the Temporary Committee for the Verification and Assessment of the State of Energy in the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 January 2015. Mr. Valeri Simeonov, Chairman of the Temporary Committee of Inquiry. 2. Draft decision on the election of the Commission to produce a secret vote in the election of the Ombudsman. The Commission shall be elected in accordance with Section V of the Election Rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 8 July 2015. Importers: Krasimir Velchev, Vasil Antonov and Evgenia Alexieva. 3. Proposal for the production of a national referendum with questions: First question: do you support some of the MPs being elected majority? Second question: do you support the introduction of a mandatory vote in elections and national referendums? Third question: do you support being able to vote remotely by electronic means in the production of elections and referendums? Importer of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, a joint draft drawn up on the basis of the laws adopted in the first vote with importers Radan Kanev and a group of MPs, the first draft; and of the Council of Ministers, the second draft law. Moving on to point one: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO APPROVE THE ACTION OF THE TEMPORARY ANCETAL COMMISSION FOR THE MOVEMENT AND ASSESSMENT OF ENERGY SITUATION IN BULGARIA TO 31 JANUARY 2015 Importer is Valeri Simeonov, Chairman of the Temporary Committee of Inquiry. Colleagues, I present to your attention a draft decision submitted only by Mr. Simeonov. That's why I'm going to report it myself. "Project" DECISION extending the provisional period Committee for the Verification and Assessment of the State of Energy in the Republic of Bulgaria as at 31 January 2015 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 35 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Prolonges the period of validity of the Temporary Committee for the Verification and Assessment of the State of Energy in the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 January 2015 until 30 November 2015 The debate is open.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u2	There's a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u3	Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There have been a lot of tragic accidents in the country lately. I, Madam President, please invite the health minister Dr. Peter Moskov to listen to him and to tell us about the incident that happened with Dr. Ilko Ilarionov, who was beaten up in Kurilo, to give us a little more details to see what is happening in our health care. If they beat up doctors, it's good for the National Assembly to know what it's about. It is good to take all action on this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u5	What exactly do you expect me to do?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u6	To invite Dr. Petar Moskov, Minister of Health, for his hearing by the MPs on the incident with Dr. Ilko Ilarionov, beaten in Kurilo.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u7	Colleague Gyokov, the hearing of cabinet members is specifically described in the Rules of Procedure. When I see the procedure being followed by a request lodged in the National Assembly, respectively signed, I will do what you call me to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u8	Who gave him Gokov's word?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u9	Madam President, this is not about the standard hearing procedure...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u10	How about we introduce some new procedure?! Contributing to the rules?! Thank you. At the point we are discussing on the agenda, are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u11	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On the proposals Project for extension of the Temporary Committee for the Verification and Assessment of the State of Energy in the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 January 2015 The committee of inquiry was set up on 19 February with a period of two months. It is proposed to extend the working period of the Commission until 30 November 2015, i.e. the time is insufficient to verify and assess the state of energy in the Republic of Bulgaria and the scope is until 31 January 2015. Since the decision on such a Commission so far, there has been a change in the legal framework, including in the Energy Act. It is logical to have an analysis and proposals to optimize the activities in the sector, after the Temporary Committee was established, but the expectations related to the findings are rather to be for legislative changes. They should be, if proven necessary, a justification for how they will affect themselves in future, in line with the Strategy for the Development of the Sector and Public Support. My fellow Members, it would make sense for the Commission to work with a new time period, but this is not being proposed. If the decision changes:.... on 31 January 2015.................. on 31 January 2015............................ by 31 July 2015................................................................ I do not think that only the extension of the Commission's working time is sufficient. I call on the President for an accurate assessment of the length of time needed and for the continuation of the Commission's activities to fit strictly within this time limit. Members of the Commission, if necessary, meet each day, but keep the deadline. The whole society expects to hear the result of your work, eager to hear concrete findings and concrete proposals. The sluggish work and the extension of time limits make your work inadequate because, in the meantime, changes in the regulations are also taking place, which also changes the content of your assessments. You should also point out specific facts, because the work of the Commission is for the benefit of society and not for the members of the Commission to acquire knowledge. We want to hear the truth about energy contracts, about making decisions about the work of individual companies. The temporary action of these committees aims to predict precisely active and dynamic work and to satisfy the public interest with concrete results within a short period of time. Honourable Members, the proposal for the creation of the Commission is justified by the reasons for the sector........................................................................................ Since severe accusations have been given by the parliamentary platform, the speaker must have provided colleagues with evidence, facts, circumstances and others, because if this is not the case, populist rhetoric is not useful especially now that there are tensions, protests and workers in the industry, and energyists; in the near future we can probably expect all citizens as well. Surely the Bulgarian people expect to learn the truth about the contracts in energy, about decision making, about the work of individual companies. If bad practices, violations of the law are identified, there are criminal records, it will be clear that the Ministry of Interior and Security did not work effectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u12	This is what we will learn from the Commission report when it is presented to us. Now we're only debating the deadline.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u13	Please don't interrupt me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u14	When you go beyond the subject, I will not only interrupt you, but I will take away your word! That you have prepared something that you need to read and it is beyond the point of the topic we are discussing...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u15	Please don't interrupt me, Madam President. No, it's not beyond the point. If bad practices are identified, in such a scenario, we may need to consider setting up a Commission of inquiry for the work of the services and competent institutions in relation to the sector. Once again, I remind you that the reasons for the establishment of the Temporary Committee of Inquiry suggest non-compliance with the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria. Is this populism, an attempt to create tensions for working energyists, or reality, we expect to understand from the Commission's report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u16	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mrs. Tasheva, in order to take turns from different parliamentary groups, then Mr. Jablyanov will be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u17	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the issue of extending the term of office of the Temporary Commission is justified by a major contradiction which has already been set up. If you look at what the title of the Commission is, what task has been given to it, it must reveal the reasons for the bankruptcy of Bulgarian energy in the last 17 years. The work of such a Temporary Commission would not even be complete would be meaningless if, after making the diagnosis, wrote the epicrisis, it did not propose a solution. In other words, this Commission and every other committee had to come up with legislative decisions to end the draining of Bulgarian energy. It's a colossal task. This is a sisyphus work in many cases, since let me tell you quite frankly, I have said it before, and my colleagues from Ataka in this Chamber, when it comes to the destruction of Bulgarian energy, there are no innocents! Apart from the Ataka Party, in each parliamentary group there are lobbyists who have benefited, including they have become rich thanks to the price models, I insist that this be remembered: thanks to the price models created by the regulator, which are in fact the basis of the draining of Bulgarian energy. During all the years during which it was created, the Bulgarian regulator has acted as guardian of the interests of what we call American Maritsa, private electricity traders, ERPs and RESs. He has never defended the interests of the general Bulgarian consumer. In order to diagnose, write an epicrisis and recommend treatment, it is not possible for a committee to work only two months. You can't siphon out such a powerful sector for 20 years, and in two months you can prescribe his treatment, appoint the treatment. That is, from the very beginning, the contradiction was set between the task put to this Commission and the time given to it to solve this problem. That is why time had to be extended. At the moment, we are looking at the month of August and the months of September and October will be in an election campaign for the local elections. So there is some sense that the Commission's work time will be extended effectively by just one more month of November, because from 1 August to 25 October there will be no conditions for lawmakers who are members of this Commission to work in both the Commission and the election campaign. On the other hand, we have to ask ourselves: why has the Commission not been able to come up with even one interim report so far? What has the Commission done so far? She has only examined the work of the ERPs and the RESs, that is, it has focused solely on the area of Bulgarian electricity. But Bulgarian energy is not just electricity. Where's the gas component? What ulcers would have come out if the Commission had worked in this area, in this sub-sector? Under the umbrella of the apology we didn't have time for the warm-up, which, I would like to remind you, there are not just lobbyists here, private heating and so-called co-generations, I dare say, they have a whole parliamentary group here. The Commission could not deal with the mishaps in the heating companies, even less time left to find out why most of them, not to say all of them, are offshore. They don't pay taxes to our country...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u18	They're paying.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u19	Wait a minute! Who did so, who authorized that the heating companies that received preferences, preferential prices were actually registered as offshores, most often in the UK, in Liechtenstein, in Delaware and so on. In other words, it is up to you to decide whether you want this Commission to tell the truth or you prefer to end the term of its work in order to stay in the shadows and in the comfortable darkness the big ulcers that contributed to the paradox in Bulgaria, the only energy in the world to be a loser. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u20	Are there any lines to Mrs. Tasheva? Mr. Zablyanov for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u21	Madam President, honourable Members, the proposal to extend the term of the Commission for the second time, which should clarify not only to the Bulgarian public, but also to the National Assembly the state of Bulgarian energy, is almost scandalous. Against the backdrop of what is currently happening with electricity, against the backdrop of unbalanced interests, obviously in the industry, against the backdrop of the upcoming unprecedented strike by workers and employers in this sector, I would like to say that the policy that is being conducted by the National Assembly in the last month has led to the union, employers and their members against electricity policy. And we, in this situation, as Parliament and as an institution, have no position because of nothing else, but because, as has already been noted by colleagues before me, there are no three lines of this Commission on this matter. What are we creating this Commission for anyway? If there is no obligation for this Commission in at least one interim report to inform the public representation objectively, not from the point of view of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission (EWRC), not from the point of view of the organisation, the employers, not from the point of view of the electricity producers, but from the point of view of the MPs, what is going on in this sector? A month ago, we were apologizing for the expression pushed into a situation in which to listen to the chairman of the KEWRC on the question of what the cost of a megawatt hour is, here, as we have gathered with you, literally, sucking on our fingers or defending specific interests of specific organisations or individuals who have interests in the industry. Here it seems to me that the Commission's omission is really extremely serious because it should have been in favour of all of us. Because the strike is tomorrow, no matter how much we pretend there won't be one, because interests have reached extremes in both directions. Some ask for money to balance the deficit and collect it from electricity producers, and electricity producers say they will not give the 5% we owe them because they are not given money and because they have no public interest or public responsibility, as we want to oblige them in this fund. I would like to raise the question: In this situation, what is the use of our legislative initiatives? Is this fund going to take place, which we set up here, where everyone has to give 5%? They don't want to give up that 5%. They're even taking out the workers on the streets right now. Here was the place of this Commission to come out and explain to us what the deficit in the National Electricity Company (NEC) is due to and could this deficit in NEC be viewed just like this, isolated, outside the entire inter-company debt in the Bulgarian economy? Because here we are dealing with politics per piece, with amendments to laws per piece, with one or another paragraph, which determines how much a megawatt hour costs, but does not determine what the cost of energy is. This is a lack of a comprehensive energy policy that is not only from this government, as a matter of fact, it is a lack of comprehensive information on the state of the industry. Here, if there is any way to strengthen the work of this Commission with experts, to involve other deputies in it, if there is any way to come up with additional materials and documents, to listen to the right one, to invite the right one, but we cannot remain hostages to the avalanche developing situation of conflict of interest and conflict in this sector. I say this not only from the point of view of the opposition, but it is in the interest of the government. Because when electricity producers and electricity consumers go out on the street, that means someone has completely messed up industry policy. Last but not least, in the last week we have witnessed a grocery approach in price setting. We have set 5%, those who produce, set us another price and say: "We have made big investments in the industry...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u22	Mr. Zablyanov, this debate is beyond the point we are discussing. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u23	I'm done. I would like to draw attention to the lack of price policy and it is the result of the lack of price policy regarding raw materials and the overall balance in the industry at all. I'd like to draw attention to something else. From the market as a price regulator can not be taken only as components investments and on this basis to calculate the price of something we have heard in recent weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u24	You are commenting on a law adopted by the National Assembly, not the work of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u25	The National Assembly was brought together by urgency and I cannot assume that the Commission that we have created cannot come up with an interim report of three pages and ask for a blanquet extension of their existence by the end of the year. I'm sorry, but the benefit of it is not clear. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u26	Thank you. Are there any lines? Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zablyanov, my disagreement is, in fact, with the somewhat definite qualifications you make with regard to the Commission, and not that you are, in principle, not right in terms of being an external observer, that it is normal to dissatisfaction with the fact that, until now, the Commission has not come up with a report. First of all, the Commission did not come up with a report for this reason that it was new for me to teach him that we could not come up with an interim report. Otherwise, the report is ready and will be delivered on Thursday. I am talking about the interim report, about all the findings that have been made so far. Of course we will not call it a report, we will not present it to the National Assembly. There will be an open meeting at which we will introduce everyone to whom it is of interest, and you, with the findings at present, summarized and synthesized in the most understandable form. Once again, my disagreement is that you are giving an assessment to the Commission. I think the Commission has worked very conscientiously and responsibly, all members can confirm that. The volume of matter is extremely high. It is not just a matter of purely informational knowledge, as someone had said before, to inform the Commission, which is inevitable, because, once again, the matter is very large-scale, not only an introduction to the legal documents, not only the legal regulations, the regulations of the KEWRC, respectively of the ministries, but the volume is simply too large to be able to come up with a report from which I personally am not ashamed. That's the kind of report you'll have if you extend. If you don't extend, there will still be, but it will be partial. It will not cover the whole area, including the report Mrs. Tasheva talked about, the heat efficiency, the state-owned enterprises. The rest of us are on standby. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So the job is done. Finally, I would like to tell you a final sentence: do not think that the Commission, working, has not produced a result. The results you already have are the changes in the Law, to a large extent...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u28	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. I gave you a time sign.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u29	Change some regulations, but, you're right...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u30	Is there a second line, colleagues? I won't. Mr. Zablyanov, would you like to use the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u31	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr Simeonov! I agree that the matter the Commission is dealing with cannot, in any case, be called elementary not only in terms of the volume of the legal documents that have been adopted and which are most likely largely mutually exclusive, but also in terms of the interests that intersect in this sector, as it retains the largest state share in it from all other industries. For this reason, it continues to be the subject of an increasing interest. I expect the Commission to give a firm ruling on the future of state power and of state-owned enterprises in the industry. It is so that by speculating on market mechanisms, losses start to accumulate in state-owned enterprises, and private producers are looking for all sorts of mechanisms for making profits that turn into accounting zeros. This mechanism is the main reason why I Laicically tell you as a bystander, in my opinion, about the huge deficit in NEK and a number of other reasons and circumstances. However, I would like you to brief us in detail what was negotiated by the Prime Minister with the so-called American power stations and that famous contract, which was concluded so that the debt in NEK is currently increasing. What was concluded then? They asked us to pay the debts in cash to renegotiate the terms. Isn't that what they asked us to do? And because they are very aware that the Bulgarian state cannot bring out some 800 million to pay them, from now on the negotiation is over. And we are now in this situation. I expect proposals from the Commission in these directions and, of course, legislative initiatives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u32	Any other MPs? A statement? Here you go. Colleagues, we have a draft decision on the extension of the Commission's period and not essentially a debate on the state of Bulgarian energy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u33	Without a doubt, Madam President. Therefore, I did not intend to take the floor, but many key questions were asked, which, if not answered, would simply not be fair. So I'm just going to say one thing in a nutshell. Here a colleague asked where NEK's deficit came from? Now, a very simple answer and a very simple example. Last week, the left actively voted on amendments to the Energy Act, which opened the door for biomass of manure. Hey, guys, you've been asked...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u34	Mr. Dimitrov, completely outside the point at which the debate is going on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u35	Madam President, you did not have this clear answer to the speakers at this time...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u36	On the contrary, from the first speaker, my answer is clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u37	Give me one minute, as you gave 6 minutes to previous speakers on similar topics. Hey, that's how it works, guys, the deficit. I would therefore like to protect the Commission, which is doing an energy inspection, which is asking uncomfortable questions, and which is gathering information to solve this deficit as a problem and will come up with additional legislative proposals at the end. I would also like to highlight the following thing. I am impressed that these MEPs, who are not members of the Commission, but come to each meeting, are patiently waiting and listening to the debate. And those fellow Members who have never come to this Commission have no idea of the nature of the work are very active in the Chamber, they say common things that have no connection with the meetings of this Commission, but perhaps they want to hear their own voice, and they think that, speaking in general about energy, are useful to this National Assembly, in which I have deep doubts. I will, however, support the extension of the deadline for a very important reason. The Commission has so far been engaged in its work with electricity. There was no time for thermal energy and there was no time for analysis of natural gas companies, which is a completely different area for which it takes at least a few months of additional work. This Commission is worth almost nothing to the National Assembly. It's worth our time. But I have the feeling that some colleagues who make other speeches, which seem to be of principle, do not work for them this Commission, because it is constantly asking hard questions and making hearings that no one has ever done. Such hearings that are currently being organised, and the questions that are being asked, no one has ever done, colleagues. And I have a feeling that many people don't like it, but they can't say it honestly, and that's why they generally say: why the deadline was postponed, why the Commission slowed down. What's the matter with you guys? What's stopping you from this Commission? It's not worth anything to the National Assembly. It's barely worth anything. What's my problem with you guys? Why do you want it to end quickly? You want it to be over quickly so that there will not be, colleagues, such a Commission, so that these hearings are no longer available, not to call businesses every month, including the private sector, to ask them key questions. You want the usual report to come out, which we have seen many times in this National Assembly, and the work to be covered from now on and closed. If you ask me, the longer this Commission works, it is useful with its very work, with the hearings themselves, with the very questions it asks, and, of course, with the final report it will present. I call on you, colleagues, all who show such concern for Bulgarian energy, not to remain formal, but to support the extension of the period of the Commission, which is doing checks, listening and for the first time buried in the depths of the swamp, which is currently the Bulgarian energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u38	- What's the line? Mr. Zablyanov "First line," Mr. Tasco Ermenkov "second line," third line "Delyan Dobrev."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u39	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Dimitrov! I will quote a political figure from the beginning of the 20th century " is not a Bulgarian who has said: "Motion is everything, the goal is nothing." As I see it, this Commission works on this principle, and you are deeply convinced that this Commission is a closed laboratory in which 30 people are gathered, it is the peak of representation in energy and the peak of expert thought. If that were the case, you'd have written the report by now. Excuse me, if this Commission deals only with hearings, without any results, there is no public benefit from it. But no public benefit except the satisfaction of the personal ego of the participants in it. Electricity and energy are industries that are developing outside the Commission, Mr. Dimitrov. Why do you think this Commission regulates... Well, the whole Bulgarian society has to do with this, not the MPs who are not present. And when they're not there, what if they're not there? What happened? What did you do? Excuse me!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u40	Second line, Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u41	Dear Mr. Dimitrov, you asked a good question here to your colleagues on the left. You asked them, "What are you afraid of? Why do you want this Commission to end so quickly and not finish its work? Perhaps because we repeatedly repeat from this tribune not to try to look back and point back the BSP colleagues because they are pointing themselves. Even in today's speeches, they have come to this extreme not to look back but to look ahead, that is, to look to tomorrow. And they ask how it was possible to protest both employers and trade unions and how, what would happen if the producers refused to pay the 5% contribution that we have entered here in the National Assembly by law. Well, they, in the same way, colleagues, can refuse to pay corporate tax, and VAT refuse to pay, and social security, and everything else. How can the National Assembly stand to question what will happen if they refuse to pay the contribution that we have voted by law? So, Mr. Dimitrov, I ask you to clarify once again to the colleagues on the left that there is nothing to fear from this Commission, at least not for the interest of society. On the contrary, it is in the public interest that the Commission, as you have said, is working as long as possible, because with this Commission a number of facts and circumstances that have been covered up in one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u42	Third line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u43	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, first of all, I would like to state clearly and accurately, you can check this in the way that we voted on the amendments to the Energy Act, that the group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party in those paragraphs, which concerned biomass and the following paragraphs for contributions to the Fund, voted abstention. And what was accepted was accepted with the votes of your coalition partner.. the older brother in the coalition. So don't pass the biomass blame on our party, because we have clearly and precisely all over this paragraph voted abstention. Take a look, and you'll see that that's true. I want to tell you something else, too, that when we speak from the left, we are speaking not because we want to blur the situation, but because we are really worried about what is happening. When we ask questions about continuing the term of the Commission, we ask them with concern and empathy, because few people are familiar with the work we have done. The possible concern my fellow Members have is absolutely justified, and it is in the context that so far most of the meetings we are doing have been closed, little information in the media is leaking. So don't take this thing as obstruction, as a behavior against the existence of the Commission. This is a concern about the way the Commission works, that the public is waiting for more results from it, that we should perhaps be a little more specific in the conclusions we draw. Otherwise, everything else that is said, that we are opposed to squeezing it is political and will not help in the debate we are having right now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u44	A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u45	My fellow Members, I would like to ask you: what was the benefit of these committees, such as the one that checked the work of private pension funds, which quickly...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u46	Mr. Dimitrov, you're way off topic. Very off topic! Return to the topic and the draft decision on the extension of the specific Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u47	Of course, Madam President. Thank you for being so strict, especially with the Reformation Block, the clues to being within the scope of the topics, which is help that you are constantly giving us, for which I thank you. Colleagues, we understand from BSP that they are in a hurry to complete the work of the Commission, but I could not understand why. I actually figured out why, even though they didn't tell each other. The BSP colleagues apparently understood that they did not want such a Commission, it quickly ended, to write some report, and to stop the energy checks. This is what our colleagues from BSP told us: We want these checks that are being carried out in energy to be stopped now. [[Noise and lines.]] To come up with a report, like those reports we've seen, I won't say where, because Mrs. Chairman will say I'm getting out of range, but we've seen them. This kind of report shows up now and we're done with all the work, that's what our BSP colleagues are offering us. Regarding the line, I have to answer, Madam President, I was asked about biomass. If they hadn't asked, I wouldn't have answered, but because one colleague said they had abstentioned, two people from the group of...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u48	That was a line to your statement. You gave the topic, you picked up the ball and they hooked you up with a threesome. [[(Radio.) Noise and lines.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u49	Madam President, I have to answer in the back, otherwise the BSP colleagues will be offended. I'm doing this for them. Two people from the BSP group during the debate clearly explained how they are the biggest supporters of biomass. I will take you out of the transcripts to read it, which is why the transcripts of the National Assembly are made especially because of the BSP group, especially for this reason they are made. Colleagues, there are two possible positions: do you want to continue checking in energy, or do you want a quick writing of a report? If you want this thorough examination to continue, I call on you all the parliamentary groups to leave politics, to come to the Commission, to continue to work longer, to reach even deeper into the swamp, to propose changes in legislation and a serious final report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u50	Are there any other Members of Parliament contributing to the extension of the Commission's term? [[Reply by MP Delyan Dobrev.]] If it's about ending the debate, there's no possibility of that. That's why we're saving two minutes for procedure. Mr. Boychev, come in. Only on the subject of the extension of a sentence beyond it, and I take your word away.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u51	Thank you, Madam President. That's all I'm gonna talk about. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I would like to remind you that our political power has supported the creation of the Commission and has been included in the petition that was needed to initiate it in this House. Not only that, but we supported the last time this Commission's work was proposed to be extended. Today is the second time we have been offered to extend the work of the Temporary Committee of inquiry. However, there are a number of questions that we are asking ourselves, and I wish that in the debate preceding this decision, we could get an answer to them. Firstly, it would be good for me for the Chair of the Temporary Commission to provide information on what has been done so far as a stage of information. If there is no possibility of an interim report, then before we decide to re-extend the Commission's deadline, I think we should be aware of what the Commission has achieved so far. I understand that we have set a very ambitious goal with the formation of the title and scope of the work of this Commission, but, honourable Members, the work of the Commission must also make some sense, and the assessment of the state is at a certain point and one year after the beginning of the work of the National Assembly to give an assessment of what it was a year ago, it will lose its meaning. I would like to remind you that since the creation of the Commission, we have changed the Energy Act twice, and part of the Commission's point was precisely to initiate a number of policy changes that are being followed in this sector. Most likely October we are going again to another change in the Energy Act, so I would like to connect these things too. I would also like to say one more thing, as there has been speculation in this debate. We do not have any concerns about the facts and circumstances that this Commission will carry out. Our concern is that we are slowing down with these facts and circumstances and in order to unanimously support this decision, we would still like to hear what has been achieved so far. I know that many hearings have been made, many conversations, but you know that by creating this Commission, there were great expectations for it. I would like to remind the Members of the National Assembly that we are entering into a danger that this Commission from the Temporary Committee will become almost permanent.. something that we cannot afford, and hardly anyone will think that there is something in the energy sector that will remain hidden from the National Assembly, given that we have a Permanent Energy Commission, we also have a permanent committee that monitors the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. So we have enough organs, but I think one of the things we have to show is efficiency in our work. I call on the President of the Commission, before we vote on this decision, to give sufficient arguments and information on the Commission's stagework so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u52	This is beyond the object of the point being debated. We have no item on the agenda: partial information on what the Commission has done so far. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Ermenkov, come in. [[Noise and lines.]] They've extended the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u53	Madam President, honourable Members! Here I address Mr. Simeonov as President of the Commission. If Mr. Simeonov had been here at the beginning of the decision and as an importer he had made perhaps a reasoned statement, many issues would have been dropped and we would not have had to discuss them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u54	They'll drop out next week with an emergency meeting, Mr. Ermenkov. Do you know how nicely they're gonna drop out?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u55	But unfortunately you used the official right to read the decision, which did not allow Mr. Simeonov to justify as an importer why he did this as a proposal. I would like to address something that is extremely important and try to dispel the doubts of my fellow Members that we are against continuing the Commission's period of action. No, we are not opposed to a continuation of the Commission's period of action. We are about to make it clear what we expect from this Commission when its deadline is extended. Until now, in the work we have done here, and in what the National Assembly has introduced us as obligations, it has made the mistake that everyone who is involved in energy usually does and restricts the notion of energy in Bulgaria to the concept of energy power without going into depth of the issues related to other parts of energy that are outside of electricity. Yeah, we've really done a lot of meetings, a lot of hearings, we've done a lot of work, but it just seems like we're a little late with some of the conclusions. This is our concern regarding the extension of the Commission's deadline. If we had done at the time some of the conclusions that could not have been drawn, perhaps when we adopted last week the amendments to the Energy Act some of the votes would not have gone as if we had known the information we had had if this information had been well served and well enough clarified. It is also about the legality of renewable energy sources, it is also about the work of high-efficiency cogeneration, for which we have concluded there, it is also about the deficits that accumulate US plants. These are also part of the conclusions that we need to draw and part of the argument that the National Assembly should have when making further decisions in the amendments to the laws on energy. This Commission's task was precisely to establish the situation so that we could really have the arguments why we are making some decisions, not to create impressions of some campaignism or some lobbying. Moreover, we also have other energy solutions ahead of us, and I therefore strongly call on the Commission to strengthen that part which concerns the conclusions already because, unfortunately, the situation is such that the more hearings we have, the bigger the problems and we look like the person who has entered the swamp and the more moving, the more sinking. In this regard, among other things, because one concern has been expressed by the colleague who spoke before me that if we extend the deadline until the end of November, it becomes a long time without analyses to be made, I propose an editorial change to the Commission. I have not agreed with it, but it seems to me that this will be important, bearing in mind that at this time the regulatory period is also ending, to extend the Commission's deadline indeed until the end of November, but to include in its scope not until 31 January 2015, but by 31 July 2015, so that we can really, when November we sit down with the final decisions and conclusions, cover a whole regulatory period in which we can draw conclusions, propose the relevant amendments. I call on my fellow Members: let us not rush with legislative changes in the area of energy before the Commission comes out with a report, because you will see that when the report came out, many of the things that we voted on last week could have looked completely different. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u56	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Come in for a statement, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u57	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will try briefly to clarify what has been done so far and what requires such a request to extend the work of the Commission, as advised by Mr. Ermenkov and other colleagues. The Commission was actually appointed on 19 February by the National Assembly, started work in March and the first meetings literally coincided with the first amendments to the Energy Act [[beeping loudly]] . The changes to the Energy Act were then dictated by the attempt to solve some of the accumulated problems. In the course of the Commission's work, we focused on the biggest participants in... Can I have your attention, please? I'm sorry, I just...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u58	Colleagues, I ask for an atmosphere in this House that allows those who wish to listen to it to do so indeed!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u59	So when we defined our tasks, we put our ambitious and responsible task first of all to look at the biggest players in the regulated market, because their impact on prices is the most painful issue related, as you know, to a number of public unrests First of all, these are RES, the ERPs, through which the electricity is actually purchased at around 80% of RES and respectively the participation in the total share of the regulated market of the so-called US plants 1 and 3. In the period of work until now were repeatedly heard, starting with representatives of the SEWRC, and subsequently the KEWRC, about the way price regulatory decisions were formed...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u60	Mr. Simeonov, you brought in, I apologize, Project for a decision to extend the deadline. If you had put another item on the agenda, it would have been different! [[Relations from the National Representative Valeri Simeonov.]] Who's forcing you? That someone wants outside the point and you're going to answer! You have submitted a draft decision with motives, any Member of the National Assembly can read them. You want extra time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u61	Okay, whatever, I'll try to be brief. The work of the RES, the work of the ERPs, has been examined in detail, numerous violations have been found. I just want to inform you, honourable Members, that in order to have financial information on the initial investments of the RES, we needed the ADPI reports that came out literally two weeks ago. With ADFI's reports, we actually got clarity on the first eight small RESs and four large, mainly windy RESs. In order to present you with a precise report, we needed this financial information. The work of ADFI continues, we have given instructions in what way, what we want. In conclusion, Mr. Boychev, if you have any questions about how it works, whether it works, if it makes sense from the Commission, just contact Mr. Ermenkov, he will explain it to you. The same applies to other colleagues. On Thursday, there will be information about the previous work at 2:00 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u62	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the Draft Decision on the extension of the Temporary Committee for the Verification and Assessment of the State of Energy...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u63	There was a suggestion...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u64	This proposal, Mr. Ermenkov himself, stated that it was out of range. Mr. Boychev suggested it. So it's unacceptable, and there's no way I'm putting it to the vote. We don't have a point to fully review the need for the subject of activity and...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u65	Not the subject of activity...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u66	...is not an editorial supplement, so I'm subjecting the draft decision...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u67	Procedure! Procedure! Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u68	...of the Commission. Voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u69	Madam President, procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u70	There is no obstacle to submitting a targeted draft decision on this issue and then there will be a new debate, a new time. But do it right. They voted 144 MPs: 132, against 2, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Mr. Krasimir Jankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u71	Madam President, honourable Members! My colleague Tasco Ermenkov and I have proposed extending the scope of the Commission's work as a time period from 31 January to 31 July. You didn't put him to the vote. Now, in a decision of the National Assembly, this could have created conditions under which the Commission would come up with a report that is modern.. covered the period in which the regulations and the Energy Act were changed. I just don't understand why you didn't put to the vote this proposal, which could have created an opportunity for Bulgarian citizens to have information about what is happening in energy now and not last year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u72	Mr. Iankov, editorial additions and proposals in the Chamber are eligible for the very sound of the decision, i.e. in his operative. If you are proposing, as you have made a proposal other than the way it is said and is in the title of the Commission, you can do so by submitting a draft decision on purpose to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u73	We'll do it, we'll do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u74	It will be on the agenda and will be debated. Moving on to point two: PROJECT FOR THE SELECTION DECISION OF THE COMMISSION FOR THE PROCUREMENT OF CLOSURE IN THE SELECTION OF OMBUDSMAN. Mr. Velchev, please report the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u75	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to you: Project! DECISION on the election of the Committee for the Production of Secret Voting in the election of the Ombudsman The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and a decision of the National Assembly on the adoption of Rules of Procedure for the Offering of Candidates, the Presentation and Public Disclosure of Documents, the Hearing of Candidates for Ombudsman and the Secret Voting in the Election of Ombudsman (GB, No. 53 of 14.07.2015). HAS DECIDED elects a Committee to produce a secret vote in the election of an ombudsman in a composition of 9 Members of Parliament on one of each parliamentary group and one non-member of a parliamentary group, as follows: The President: Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev Members: Georgi Chenkov Tarnovalyski MP from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria, Hüseyin Hasan Hasan Haszov, MP from the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Mr. Ivan Kirilov Ivanov, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformist Block, Valentin Kirilov Kasabov "Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front," Stefan Georgiev Kenov "Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center," Miglena Doykova Alexandrova Mr. Ivan Slavov Ivanov, MP from the parliamentary group of ABB and Ana Georgieva Barakova, MP, non-member of a parliamentary group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u76	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. Are there any MPs who wish to speak on the draft decision? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the draft decision on the election of the Commission to produce a secret vote in the election of the Ombudsman. Vote 148 MPs: 147 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point three: PROPOSAL TO PROVIDE NATIONAL REFERENCE WITH QUESTIONS: 1. DO YOU EXPECT part of the people's REPRESENTATIVES to be selected MAJORITAROUSLY? 2. DO YOU APPRECIATE THE APPLICATION OF A DEFINITELY VOICE OF SELECTORS AND NATIONAL REFERENDUMS? 3. DO YOU KNOW HOW TO VOICE AND DISTANCE IN ELECTRONIC TIMES IN THE PROCUREMENT OF ELECTRONICS AND REFERENDUMS? Importer is the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, 3 June 2015. Reports have been received from the committees to which the proposal for a referendum has been allocated. We have a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs, a report from the Commission on interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. The Quaestors, please invite Mr. Plevneliev the President of the Republic of Bulgaria! Here you go, Mr. President. [[The President of the Republic of Bulgaria Rosen Plevneliev shook hands with the President and the Vice-Presidents of the Presidential Bank.]] Mr. Kirilov, we are listening to the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u77	Dear Madam President, Mr. President of the Republic of Bulgaria, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a proposal to produce a national referendum with questions: 1. Do you support some of the Members of the National Assembly to choose majority? 2. Do you support the introduction of a mandatory vote in elections and national referendums? 3. Do you support being able to vote remotely by electronic means in the production of elections and referendums? No 501-00-2, tabled by the President of the Republic of Bulgaria 3 June 2015 At its meeting held on 1 July 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a proposal for the production of a national referendum, with an introduction. No 501-00-2, submitted by the President of the Republic of Bulgaria on 3 June 2015. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Rumyana Kolarova, Secretary of Education, Science and Civil Society of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria and Mrs. Petya Tyankova, Secretary of Legal Affairs of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. On behalf of the importer, the proposal to produce a national referendum, No 501-00-2, submitted by the President of the Republic of Bulgaria on 3 June 2015, was presented by Mrs. Petya Tyankova. In his motives, the President justified his proposal to produce a national referendum with the need to enable Bulgarian citizens to express their views on the important principles of electoral rules and the functioning of democracy. The introduction of a mixed electoral system combines the advantages of the majority and proportional, ensuring the functioning of a multiparty political system, which is considered one of the most valuable achievements of the transition in the Republic of Bulgaria. The introduction of a mixed electoral system ensures both the constitutionally established principle of political pluralism and the possibility of voters voting for a particular person. The proposal for a public consultation on the introduction of a mandatory vote is based on the need to counter the most vicious practices of corporate, manipulated or bought votes and aims to reduce the burden of controlled votes. The proposal to consult on the issue of the introduction of a remote vote by electronic means is motivated by the greater opportunities that citizens will have by supplementing the traditional method of voting. This method facilitates voters who, on the day of the vote, are located in a place far away from the polling section. The population census in 2011 was supported when more than three million Bulgarian citizens were counted electronically. A legislative solution can be found for electronic remote voting to ensure the secret of vote, expression of personal will and free choice. In connection with the President's proposal to produce a national referendum on 18 June 2015 by the MPs Mariana Todorova and Lachezar Nikiforov was submitted a draft decision for the amendment of the proposal, No 554-02-56. With the project is proposed the following version of Question No 1 like this: Do you support the introduction of a mixed electoral system in which half of the MPs are to be elected majority? People's representatives Petar Slavov, Chetin Kazak, Maya Manolova, Daniel Kirilov, Chavdar Georgiev, Dimitar Lazarov, Desislava Atanasova, Emil Dimitrov, Lucezar Nikiforov, Philip Popov, Svilen Ivanov and Hamid Hamid took part in the discussion. During the discussion the MPs discussed the possibility of editorial amendments to the President's questions. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes for the European Parliament, 5 votes against the European Parliament and 1 vote abstention proposed to the National Assembly the following: Project! DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 10, para. 1, t. Art. 2 and Art. 2 13, para. 8 of the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government HAS DECIDED Approves the proposal to produce a national referendum with questions: 1. Do you support some of the MPs being elected majority? 2. Do you support the introduction of a mandatory vote in elections and national referendums? 3. Do you support being able to vote remotely by electronic means when the elections and referendums are being produced?................................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u78	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. We will now hear from Mrs Marinska with the Report of the Commission on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Here you are, Mrs. Marinska.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u79	Madam President, colleagues! "Communication with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints at their regular meeting held on June 18th In 2015, he examined and discussed the proposal of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria for the production of a national referendum, No 501-00-2 of 3 June 2015. The meeting of the Commission was attended by Mrs. Rumyana Kolarova, Secretary of Education, Science and Civil Society of the President, and Mrs. Petya Tyankova, Secretary of Legal Affairs of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. The reasons for the proposal to produce a national referendum were presented by Mrs. Kolarova. She expressed the President's position that she stands firmly behind the multiparty political system, which is one of the most valuable achievements of the transition in Bulgaria. Through the introduction of a mixed electoral system part of the MPs will be selected majority, while the rest will be selected in proportion to party lists. This will preserve party diversity, but at the same time will be voted for individuals. Regarding compulsory voting, this is the instrument that will counter the most vicious practices of corporate, manipulated or bought votes. With regard to the third issue of e-voting, it will not only be an incentive, but also proof that the Bulgarian state does not forget its citizens wherever they are in the world. Remote voting will save time, inconveniences from large distances for polling stations, the accumulation of groups of people in front of them. This way of voting will lead to higher turnout and more people will feel politically represented. On the basis of the reasons presented and after the subsequent vote, the Committee on Synergy with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints with 9 votes..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Marinska. Mr. Rosen Plevneliev now has the floor of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria to present to us his initiative and the specific three issues for producing a national referendum. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u81	Dear Madam President of the National Assembly, honourable Members! In my address to the people and the 43rd National Assembly of 27 October 2014, I pointed out: The Bulgarian citizens have placed on all of you, the MPs, a complex but clear task to search for the common by keeping your differences. From the positions that every political force will now take, it will be determined whether diversity can become wealth. Let pessimism and the severe crisis give way to meaningful action step by step, day by day! Nine months later, I would like to congratulate you on the higher level of stability achieved in the country, on the ambition to implement important reforms and on the broad political agreement reached to change the Constitution. If the declared intentions for comprehensive reforms in Bulgarian justice, health care, education, pension system, energy, security sector and others become concrete results, this will be a big step forward for the state and society with long-term and strong positive effect in the internal and international context. The first steps and meaningful actions are in place. I wish you success in your further responsible activity! Dear MPs, the main reason for almost every major problem of Bulgaria is the judiciary and electoral process. Both the low trust of citizens and the feeling of lack of justice, and the unsatisfactory growth of the economy and income, and the insufficient amount of investment, and corruption, and the grey economy, and low turnout are the logical result of an ineffective justice system and an unsustainable election process. That is why I strongly support the implementation of a deep and comprehensive judicial reform and of a national referendum on the electoral rights of citizens. The achievement of decisive and sustainable progress in the Bulgarian justice and electoral process can be achieved only with the will and support of the people. So I re-initiated this referendum. It is just as important for the future of Bulgaria as the judicial reform. I take advantage of the opportunity that the Constitution gives me to address you because I believe that the debates you are about to hold and the decision you are going to vote on today are key to the development of democracy and the political system in the country. I referred to the Forty-third National Assembly asking for a referendum on three issues that have long been at the centre of public attention, but they never received this response to bring stability to the electoral system and the process of forming institutions. I am confident that we can improve many times the work of public authority by providing it with a higher level of public legitimacy. Each politician goes on stage with a clear commitment to comply with the sovereign's will, to find even more effective ways to strengthen civil participation in forming political decisions. Each of us has promised it to our constituents, and we all owe it to the people together. We owe him our trust because civil society has repeatedly shown its wisdom and attachment to the values of democracy. We have neither reason nor the right to deny a sovereign the opportunity to rule on how to broadcast his representatives, namely those who will immediately swear in all their actions to be guided by the interests of the people. Direct democracy can contribute to more stability and confidence in the political system when referendums are initiated honestly, with a real desire to hear sovereign over issues of national importance, but not with populist motives. Dear MPs, we are all witnesses that in recent years the elections in Bulgaria, instead of bringing stability, are very easy to become a new factor of mistrust, of constant doubts, of endless accusations of manipulations, vote trading, bought vote, corporate vote. Less and less of our compatriots take advantage of their right to vote, more and more Bulgarians remain excluded from political life in the country. This is what the state and its institutions suffer from. If we do not reverse this process, apathy and nihilism will affect the foundations of the political system itself. The decision is in the holding of a referendum on the electoral rights of Bulgarian citizens. The vote of citizens will show us what are the fundamental principles, in compliance with which the people will broadcast their representatives. The necessary stability in the electoral process will be introduced and the Bulgarian political system will improve in the long term. The first question I propose to ask the citizens is: do you support some of the MPs being elected majority? We have repeatedly debated on this subject, many different ones I have heard in the past year. What seems undeniable is that Bulgarian citizens prefer, along with party lists, to have the opportunity to vote for individuals as well. I am confident that if we step up the majority vote, we will strengthen the electoral link and give the opportunity in the Bulgarian political life to participate more in these compatriots who, with their lives and achievements, have gained public confidence. We must not oppose the majority of the proportionate element in the electoral system. I am confident that in the proper organization and principled approach we are able to take advantage of the best of both systems. I stand firmly behind the multiparty political system, which is one of the most valuable achievements of our transition and should not be denied in any case! I explicitly highlight the fundamental role of the parties in parliamentary democracy as a winner and representative of the people's will! At the same time, by introducing a mixed electoral system where some of the MPs are elected majority and the others with party lists, we will preserve party diversity, but we will also vote for individuals. I have listened carefully to all the criticisms and proposals that have been made regarding how the issue was formulated, and during the political consultations with each of the parliamentary political forces presented, I have declared my willingness to further develop or specify this issue accordingly. There is no common opinion as to what part of the Members of the National Assembly to be elected majority. It is not right for the President to put a digital expression on the majority of this would be contrary to the basic idea of asking citizens, and then with joint efforts to reach the best solution. Let's check the will of the sovereign's majority choice in general. This will also be the most correct orientation in legislative decisions. Forty-third National Assembly has already shown several times that it can transform party diversity into consensual solutions and I am confident that all of you in a dialogue regime will be able to make people's will clear and acceptable to all legislative decisions. Today, however, it is important that you make a decision that will allow the consultation itself to take place. I call on anyone who says that he is a supporter of the majority element in the vote not to seek easy justification in numbers and percentages, but to support, in principle, the idea of a referendum on this subject. Another major problem, which I hope to overcome with joint efforts, is the growing trend of social policy exclusion. The non-voting party is increasing and the state authorities represent virtually less and less citizens. This suffers not only their legitimacy, but also the quality of their work, but hence the overall development of the state. Undoubtedly, alienation and apathy find their explanation in all commitments undertaken and unfulfilled, in the quickly forgotten promises, as well as in the many missed opportunities and delayed reforms over the years. However, it seems that the time has come for us to try in a new way to overcome this problem. The mandatory vote is known in the democratic world and is a medicine that can help a young democracy like ours. The more our compatriots participate in the elections, the more legitimate the choice will be and the institutions will be more stable and representative. During the past year, I have heard many voices...................... the introduction of the mandatory vote and the dialogue.... how far the line between rights and obligations extends seems endless. Let us know all the arguments. This dispute is good, it has a place in our civil dialogue. Let the sovereign hear and make his informed and conscious choice. Whatever the people decide, it is stronger than our personal opinion, than our party interests, than our desire to hit our political opponent. As confident as we are of those behind us, the rules of the democratic rule of law require us to do the will of the one we serve. Let everyone take advantage of the opportunities the campaign gives us and convince more and more Bulgarian citizens of the rightness of their arguments. But let us never forget that the thesis of not asking at all, because a small group of people are confident of their rightness, has no place in a mature democracy. I can't accept a similar position. For this reason, I will not now use this high tribune to point out the arguments for the..... or against................. but I will call you today, through the vote that is to come, to secure the most honest, most objective arbitrator in this dispute..... the Bulgarian people. The state must enable every Bulgarian citizen to exercise his right to vote. That includes those of our countrymen who are abroad. We all owe them. The modern globalised world, the open borders, Bulgaria's membership in the European Union should have long had us reconsider our revival concept of the emigrant as a man who has gone to seek his development elsewhere. In the modern world, each person has the opportunity to study and work both in his homeland and in the world. Modern technologies allow every Bulgarian to be part of the public and political life in the country, regardless of where it is located; to import the most valuable currency of its acquired experience, the conscious civic position and be able to do so from anywhere. Today we are living in the age of information technology, and distances are losing their traditional meaning. It is our responsibility to provide an opportunity for every Bulgarian to show his concern for the country. Because they see us, they are with us, albeit not physically, talking to us daily from every point in the world through global networks and communication devices. This is not an exotic luxury for a long time, but a daily life for millions of Bulgarians. There are many benefits of remote voting electronically, but most importantly, this will be a step in the direction in which humanity is developing. We are already making daily use of the opportunities that modern technology offers us. The e-voting is the future, it will certainly happen. The question is: not whether, but when. I am confident that the Bulgarian voters will be able to vote electronically in the near future. Thus over a million and a half Bulgarian citizens around the world will be able to contribute to the future of our homeland. I do not agree with millions of Bulgarians being excluded from public-political life just because they have found realization abroad. Our countrymen abroad are not indifferent to what is happening in our country. They have an attitude and an opinion, expecting to be able to exercise their constitutional right to participate in elections and referendums from anywhere in the world. Dear Members of the National Assembly, our compatriots want to be active participants in the decision-making processes in the country by speaking on essential issues about how Bulgarian democracy and the electoral process work. The people refer critically to the state in which the Bulgarian political system is located, pointing to the imperfections of democratic order. There is a great public expectation that we will do more to overcome the shortcomings and gaps of the transition. In recent years, we have witnessed a dangerous process of delegimation of institutions, of parties, unfortunately of the political system as a whole. Some of the reasons are rooted precisely in the lost belief that every citizen is important, that everyone can with their vote change the state and that democracy gives the citizen the opportunity to participate directly in the decision making. There is no stronger instrument to increase the confidence of citizens than the referendum. Using direct democracy is proof that politicians serve the people. I am confident that if we strengthen the role of referendums in our political life, everyone will win both parties and citizens and institutions. I believe that with good regulation and organisation, this most powerful tool of direct democracy can make the country's political system far more sustainable and stable. I have already proposed the national referendum to be held together with the upcoming elections for municipal councillors and mayors on 25 October. 2015 The simultaneous holding of local elections and referendum will enable us to hear people with as little additional budget burden as possible. The practice of many progressive societies shows that combining the two types of voting allows direct and representative democracy to interact by strengthening the democratic foundations of the state. I am confident that with your debates and voting today you will show the public that the forty-third National Assembly has left in history sharp and unprincipled opposition. The diversity of political representation is the best environment in which to look for the right solutions. They will be the most sustainable if they comply with the will of the people. Let us show today that we believe in the sovereign, so that tomorrow we can make this trust mutual. Thank you. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. The debate is open. A statement on behalf of a parliamentary group, please come in, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. President, dear Members of the House! Today, Bulgarian citizens have many problems: poverty and murderous inequalities; Bulgaria's economic slowdown from developed countries in the last 25 years, despite the support of all parties, from all the country's membership into the European Union; injustice, which undoubtedly exists in the judiciary, but very often citizens are faced with them both in the legislative process and in the actions of the executive power, and in the actions of the administration of the state and local. Today, Bulgarian citizens are worried about the demographic perspective of the country, which outlines in the medium term an extremely bad future for the existence of Bulgaria as a modern country here in the Balkans. Today, millions of Bulgarians are excluded from democracy because socio-economic exclusion has not been done in the last 50 years because access to health and education is increasingly becoming market-based and millions of Bulgarian citizens cannot understand why the state is retreating new and new spheres of private business in the field of education and health. Today democracy is threatened by parties and projects that pass as falling stars through the political skyline because the idea base is denied and replaced by the corporate consensus, by the lobbying groups, for which the ideas have no meaning. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]] The opinion of the majority of Bulgarian citizens has no meaning, because very often lobbying and political PR in electronic media replaces the real discussions and problems that worry Bulgarian citizens. Honourable Members of the House, Mr. President! BSP left Bulgaria will continue to defend democratic rights and freedoms consistently, but at the same time we will strongly oppose the abuse of democratic mechanisms for the purposes of the political PR, for the purpose of replacing the real, basic, socio-economic problems of society with what in a laboratory of media specialists is offered once again to Bulgarian citizens. We will strongly oppose the responsibility of politicians for the current state of the democratic, rule of law and social state to overload the citizens who, at the beginning of the democratic process, gave enthusiastic confidence to a new democratic Bulgaria. They have given enthusiastic confidence to our membership in the European Union and have been disappointed against it. We are all debtors, but every party, every politician, every head of institutions chooses the path in which this trust returns. We from BSP left Bulgaria have chosen our path! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u84	Procedure, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u85	Madam President, honourable Members! My procedure is this: I suggest that this debate, the whole point three, be broadcast live on National Radio and National Television. I have heard from colleagues that the President's speech has been broadcast on these media, which is on these issues that we are dealing with. It's correct, it's exactly what it would be if the whole point was passed on to the national media. Therefore, Madam President, I ask you to put this to the vote and you, colleagues, to support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u86	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Chukolov's proposal for a direct broadcast of the debate and the votes on item three of our current agenda, the point we are debating at the moment. They voted 143 MPs: for 65, against 40, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u87	Dear colleagues, we will now ask what to ask the people. We will discuss what to ask the people, and we do not want the people to see what we are discussing. Do you understand how absurd it is to hide from the people right now what we're really going to try? It just doesn't make sense, and I'm asking you to put him through a re-vote, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u88	It's a re-vote. They voted 150 MPs: 51, against 43, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. The debate is open. I ask the MPs who wish to take the floor to give a sign of this. Are there any MPs who want it? Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u89	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In presenting his motives to the proposal for a referendum, the President once referred to the fact that Bulgaria is a young democracy and this results in certain actions, further on another occasion he said that something is acceptable or unacceptable in the conditions of mature democracy..................................... to Bulgaria................................. However, I believe that the real assessment of the state in our country is that we live in conditions of degradation democracy and, unfortunately, this assessment is not exceptional only for Bulgaria. It affects the very low trust of citizens in a number of European countries in the management of their own countries and in the current state of the European Union. The main reason for this is not the different voting technologies for the election of representatives in state institutions, but the fact that an increasing role in the governance of the countries play corporate and external dependencies. If this truth is not told, it will not be long before the citizens will even ask us: "Does it matter whether we choose, or whether we appoint those who exercise power that does not stem from their will and does not stand up to their interests? " Therefore, we are already facing a much more serious problem than the technologies of democracy, and they are referring to the question of the very meaning of democracy,'whether it can survive the state in which it is now, or will be born more and this will perhaps cause new cataclysms of a clash of various interests, of a clash of various geopolitical factors? When we talk about the referendum, we also need to ask ourselves this question in the current European context, because we will all want people to have a real opportunity to participate in decision-making, but we have seen that the recent referendum in Greece did not defend the will of Greek voters, who categorically spoke on one subject, but adopted decisions that are contrary to the opinion of the majority. When we talk about the referendum, we need to think about what the referendum in Britain would lead to, which should be organised in the near future and which affects the attitude of British citizens towards the country's participation in the European Union. These are many of the real problems today. Of course, Bulgaria has others. Much more today, in the minds of people, are issues such as this being raised, should the state allow funding, apart from state and municipal and private schools; should the state allow, after giving money to certain medical institutions, they take money from patients for the same treatment? Today, these are questions that are beginning to excite more and more people. But along with that, I accept that the questions put by Mr. President have their place, and I would now like to comment briefly and make constructive proposals to this discussion on behalf of our parliamentary group. Let me just point out that a few days ago, when the amendments to the Law on the direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government were discussed and voted here, no changes were introduced that affect the validity of the referendum, that is, even if they go to a referendum together with the local elections, there is once again a risk whether the will that the Bulgarian citizens expressed will have any valid significance in the further actions of the parliament and the other institutions. What version of the questions, in my opinion, can make them clear? The general question whether people support the majority choice of some of the MPs is clear from now on. The spontaneous opinion of most Bulgarian citizens, without any hesitation, would determine as high a share of majority choice as possible, and some would probably already vote that we can act without representative institutions. But by stepping on the President's initiative, we can propose the following clarifying issue: Do you support half of the MPs to be elected in one-sided areas, and when determining the mandates for the parties all votes cast for them in the one-sided and multi-mandated areas are taken into account? What does that question mean? It means that we determine the number of majority elected MPs. Together with this, however, we maintain the rule that in no way should this majority choice violate the principle of proportionality that each one of the Bulgarian citizens cast a vote for a candidate in a one-mandated region or by party list should be taken into account and that ultimately determine the amount of party representation in the National Assembly. This is even an improved version of the German electoral system, where none of those who voted will feel that his voice is lost, so that this majority of the campaign itself, of the choice, will preserve and resist the party beginning. I realize that this proposal of mine, if I use the harsh expression of the card game, can be overrated because someone will say: why not choose all MPs majority? And in the race to win the voter support this may also meet support, but, notice, we stand on the basis that the votes of the Bulgarian citizens must determine as accurately as possible the representation of these parties in parliament, regardless of how the electoral regions will be distributed and how the vote will be carried out, whether it be for the individual candidates or for the candidate lists. The answer to the second question for the mandatory vote is even more difficult, because before we think about the appropriateness of introducing a mandatory vote, we need to put the constitutional question: is it acceptable for the National Assembly to make the right for citizens to participate in the election of state and local authorities proclaimed in art. 42, para. 1 of the Constitution, and in obligation? The constitution has provided for several obligations, the most prominent of them is the obligation for citizens to pay the taxes and fees. Someone might try to originally say that since you have an obligation to pay your taxes, you are also given the right to pay them, because you can choose when to go and what contributions, say, to make that payment. In the elections, this choice is even smaller because there is a strictly defined day and way of voting. Or perhaps someone will say that citizens have the obligation to participate in elections, and hence their right to vote for one or other candidates, for one or another parties. This issue is very serious, because it is part of the chapter on fundamental rights and obligations, which the Constitution declares to be inalienable and those which it says can only be changed by a Grand National Assembly. Personally, I would feel more confident if the discussion we are having on the issue of the referendum was preceded by a ruling by the Constitutional Court, because in this case, there are at least serious grounds for the advocates of the various ones to stand up for them. Here we find ourselves in a situation similar to that in which we were put by the initiators of the amendment to the Constitution in the section on the judiciary. Assuming that this is admissible and using the question put by Mr. President, we propose the following version of the question: Do you support the introduction of a mandatory vote in the elections with the provision of a penalty for failure to comply with this obligation?- I think the referendums should fall from here, because this is a direct manifestation of the sovereign's will. When we want the institutions to be representative, we say that this will happen to a greater extent when we oblige citizens to exercise their right. However, if we do not say that from not exercising this right we do not follow any penalty, we will only adopt a legislative recommendation, a slogan for which people will vote. If they are sure that they do not have beneficial or adverse consequences beyond the very possibility of exercising the right, we will not change anything and we will probably not achieve any sensitive result in increasing electoral activity. Finally, I think that politicians should, to a much greater extent, give evidence of their substance through the problems they solve, and not simply by building people to go to vote. Either way, we offer these editorials to the questions, we will support them. If they do not meet support or find other supplementary editorials that are in line with our understanding, we consider it misleading to join this initiative and the answer to these questions to not cause a clear political and legislative result. Finally, I would like to put another question, which may be the first and which seems to be very underestimated and overlooked by politicians, by the initiators of the referendum. I would like to ask: has any institution, any party bothered to make precise calculations of what it means as technology to combine at the time of the local elections with the referendum? Local elections are the most complex from a technological point of view, at least because they are voted for a municipal mayor, for mayor of a local place and the list of municipal councilors, and in these elections with numerous preferences to be taken into account. The length of the election day I took the liberty of making a gross account under our law is 13 hours. The time for which one person can vote is in no case less than a minute and a half, but for many voters who need greater orientation, this time will be longer. The maximum number of voters in one section is a thousand. As an indicative number, I take 600, that is, relatively large sections where not everyone will exercise their right. Let's assume that in a section of about 900 people will actually vote 600 people. The voting time calculated in this way, compared to the duration of the election day, shows that at least two hours will not reach, so that all of those who have appeared may vote by the end of the election day. Even with the estimated one-hour extension time, technological choice will not be able to be completed again. Another question is also raised: that perhaps in these elections, if the referendum is voted, there will have to be two lists of voters because those who have the right to participate in the referendum are not identical to those who have the right to vote for the respective candidates in their municipality. Even if we assume that in some way the vote is over, imagine what will and endurance the members of the electoral committees must have in order to accurately take into account the will of voters in all kinds of voting for the local elections on all three, or as many questions remain for the referendum. I therefore warn that this combination of local elections with referendum issues, if nothing else, is most likely to cause corruption in local elections themselves, because instead of affecting the will of voters, the committees may finally be placed before the dilemma or unable to complete their work or agree to record any results that seem close to the real, or corresponding to the interests of the parties represented in the committees. These are serious things, and I am surprised that there is neither a request to the Central Election Commission, this issue has not been discussed, and we are going towards a final discussion and resolution of issues for the referendum itself. For this reason, I believe that the holding of local elections apart from the referendum is both a protection of the importance of the local authorities and the importance of direct democracy. The push of the referendum in the local elections also speaks as if it were an attempt to use it for conjunctural political purposes, not to get answers to the questions asked. Madam President, I am finally submitting the version that we are bringing to the first and second questions, and we will expect it to also be part of the discussion and, of course, to be put to the vote in shaping the decision by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u90	Any lines to Mr. Stoilov? First line, please, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. President! Dear colleagues, Mr. Stoilov, in your 15-minute speech you have addressed three main issues. I only agree with the third part, which concerned the difficult conduct of local elections. However, this is a matter of organisation. As for the first question that you have touched on the constitutional right to choose, let us consider it as being made up of the right to choose with several elements. What are the elements of the right to choose? The first: to build an opinion; to have the opportunity to meet the various candidates and alternatives; to be able to make my own personal decision without being influenced. Three: go to the urn and vote of my own free will. The fourth element is to just be counted my voice. In these elements, which consist of the right to choose, as you notice, is missing whether it is mandatory or not to go to vote. From this point of view, acceptance of the vote would necessarily become an administrative measure. You know, there are a lot of administrative measures in the country. [[the President signals that time has run out]] One of which is for example the issuance of an ID card is mandatory, so there are a lot of them in democratic countries...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u92	Mr. Ivanov, the cue time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u93	Then on the second point, if you could show me which law you propose to change the President's questions? Where in some law in the Republic it says we can change the questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u94	Thirty seconds out of line time, Mr. Ivanov. Second line, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Stoilov, I recall that after the referendum in Greece on the Agreement with creditors on behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group, I presented in the form of a declaration a special position in which I made a link between this referendum and the idea of discussing the draft decision to convene a referendum on the electoral system in Bulgaria. It seems to me that in this declaration I also referred to the risk to the integrity of the European Union contained in the upcoming referendum whether the United Kingdom should remain in the European Union or not. I have heard quite similar in your presentation to those of the positions expressed by the DPS Parliamentary Group, and, frankly, I am somewhat surprised because over the years you have received the recognition of the MP, a frank apologist in referendums. In this regard, how can I understand your frankly reserved position today for this referendum? Perhaps we need some clarification in order to navigate your position, as we are not opposers of the referendums, and for example, we are constantly saying that it is good to hold referendums not so much on expert topics, because they would have extremely severe consequences. For example, Tsipras, if he is honorable, should put the new agreement with the European Union to a referendum. It's under much heavier conditions. But this really isn't a job for a referendum. This is a matter of the responsibility of the representative authorities. Am I to understand that in your position I feel similar to this thesis,... [[the President signals that time has run out]] that the referendums should rather be more valuable and not so much on expert topics, as is undoubtedly the subject of the electoral system? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u96	Third line? A hole, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. President! Mr. Ivanov, I didn't expect you to push me into more theoretical discussion about what the elements of the rights are, what the powers in individual rights are. I don't advise you to go the way of this one, I would call it, reductionism, because when a phenomenon dismembers it into too many elements, it begins to lose its very meaning. And by which law do we make these editorial proposals? Of course, by the law governing direct democracy. That's what we discussed. There may be a discussion in which cases is admissible editing, but let's not get too involved in this legal case studies. I think most of the MPs accept that this discussion is both acceptable and appropriate. In the matter of Mr. Mestan, they are of a principled nature. No, Mr. Mestan, I have not ceased to be a supporter of direct democracy, but at the beginning of my speech I said that at some point none of the forms of direct democracy will have a particular meaning if people do not feel that they directly or the institutions that represent them solve the vital issues for them. So before the question of the forms of democracy comes about the meaning of democracy. Between you, you gave a good idea of what the Greek Prime Minister could do. I also believe that the move would be politically strong after he proposed and supported to maintain stability in Greece and agreed with restrictive laws, then to propose that they go to a referendum and say: If Greek citizens accept them, we will continue the governance. If they reject them, let someone else implement these measures. Between us, I think this is really a very worthy proposal that must show the strength of democracy, but also the consistency of politicians. Thank you. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u98	Until now Mr. Siderov, Mr. Mestan, Mr. Enchev, Mr. Slavov and Mr. Bayraktarov have signed up for the speech. The word is Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. President, I don't believe you really want to consult the people. You've been in charge for four years now. If you really wanted to consult the people, you could have initiated several inquiries by now. For example, does the Bulgarian people want foreign military bases on their territory or not? [[Sighs on the right:]] Does the Bulgarian people want sanctions against Russia, from which we lose hundreds of millions or not? Does the Bulgarian people want to be asked when they used the Bulgarian sky to bomb Yugoslavia in 1999? The Bulgarian people had to be asked when Bulgaria was brought into NATO and the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u100	Is that on the subject?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u101	For the referendums.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u102	The Bulgarian people could have been asked whether to be legal or to be stopped at the request of an American senator? No, the Bulgarian people were not asked. If you really wanted to consult the people, you would support our proposals for a general revision of the Law for consulting Bulgarian citizens. We offered things that worked very well for the public interest. That is, asking the people to become really possible because it is now almost impossible. We have offered a number of reliefs to make referendums really accessible, possible as it is in Switzerland, where we always set it as an example. However, this was rejected by the majority in the current parliament, which majority, by the way, has broadcast to you for President because you are a representative of GERB party in the presidency. So you were aired by this party. This same party rejected our proposals and the referendums continue to be impossible to implement. The signature. This is absurd for a 7 million-dollar country. population. We proposed with 50-100 thousand to initiate a referendum at most; we proposed to drop the requirement as much as they voted in the elections and so on. We have proposed many things that would really make consulting the people possible and realistic at any moment. However, now of the fourth year you come up with three proposals. By the way, I suggest you now withdraw your proposal, because we are only wasting parliamentary time. It is clear that you do not want real consultations with the people. You want to make a political advertisement of yourself, but you do not need to waste parliamentary time. You don't come to this room very often. By the way, I recommend that you come more often to hear our opinion. We are representatives of our constituents. Not to close behind the heavy walls of that building built by Georgi Dimitrov and Valko Chervenkov, which you are now hiding behind when we come with my colleagues to protest. The other day, they wouldn't let us in to express our attitude to the ambassadors that you reward. You're handing it out as a hoop now. We are against your policy, we are diametrically opposed to the policy you are leading. We cannot support your proposals, even more made in the context of purely political advertising. It doesn't make any sense now to want a referendum on these particular issues. The problems of the Bulgarian people and society are quite other.. low incomes, unemployment, lack of economics. Did they ask the Bulgarian people when they privatized over 3,000? Power? No! Did they ask when they sold BGA Balkan for $150,000? The dollar? No, they didn't ask him. Now we're gonna ask him if he has a majority element. Well, it had a majority element. The Grand National Assembly I remember, you were not in politics then, I was the Grand National Assembly was elected with half the majority of majority, one-sided regions. So, what happened? The same Grand National Assembly voted on the Ran Ut Programme, which colonized Bulgaria and led us to this situation at the moment of the poorest country in the European Union. Two thousand and nine years there were 30 people selected majority. So, anybody remember their names? With something to improve legislation, politics, everything that's being done here in this sacrament hall? No, nothing like that happened. If we consult now, people won't say, they won't even remember a majority name. Playing with the majority vote is a fraud and demagogy. The request to increase the majority vote because it would be personalities is simply discrimination against the political system, because democracy implies the political statement to take place through the parties. The parties are a political expressor, they are the bearer of a political concept and here is the clash of political ideas. Currently, every citizen of Bulgaria has the opportunity to come out and run majority. At the moment, both the Constitution and the Election Law provide this as an opportunity. Why do we have to deal with a referendum further with whether there should be majority vote by lying to them that this would lead to this room of personalities? It's like they don't have any personalities around here right now?! Well, that's an insult to the people's representation. The people present here are political representatives of their constituents. No more, no less will happen if they are elected majority, and I have already given an example that this has already happened and has not resulted in any improvement in our policy. Therefore, it is unnecessary to present this and to offer it. It is unnecessary to propose an electronic vote because this allows for total manipulation. We know how to buy votes right now. We imagine an enterprise owner forcing his employees to press the button on the computer and vote as he tells them, because they are in his hands, they are dependent. This is also a demagogy that represents supposedly expanding people's rights. No. People have enough rights. The question is whether they use them or not. At the moment they refuse to use them because they do not believe in democracy, do not believe in the political system. They do not believe that those who are elected lead the lives of the Bulgarians for the better. They won't believe it if it's picked here individually or partyly. It doesn't matter. That's not the point. The question is what policy is being applied. The question is whether there is opposition to what was imposed in Bulgaria as colonialism. The question is whether and why the people are not asked whether they want Bulgaria's gold mining to be in foreign hands or in Bulgarian hands. Let's ask the people about it. Let's ask if the Bulgarian people really want four US military bases to stay here for ten years and not pay a penny for them. Sociology says two-thirds of the people don't want that. However, we are afraid of these opinions, and now we want to put a proposal with absolutely non-essential amendments to the Election Code. I suggest that you withdraw your proposal, that we waste no more parliamentary time, and that we deal with more essential things for society. As for the policy you are leading, I can't help but say a few words, because you really rarely come to this National Assembly, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u103	Mr. Siderov, only on the subject we are discussing because otherwise we are going outside the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u104	Madam President, this is on the subject. We are discussing a proposal tabled by Mr. President, who, when we want to tell him something, is hiding behind the thick walls of his Presidency, built, as I said, by Georgi Dimitrov and Valko Chervenkov, strong walls, by the way, withstand a bomb, and does not want to come out and say why, for example, he rewards an ambassador who made us part of a front line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u105	Well, that's off the table now, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u106	Why Bulgaria continues to be a target for foreign forces, as we are already in a position on the front line. That's what the US Secretary of State said.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u107	If you have anything in connection with the President's proposals for the referendum, you have the opportunity to finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u108	Yeah. The President's proposals are somehow an organic part of his policy, with which, as I said, we have diametrically opposite views. We cannot therefore support proposals that are extremely political advertising. They don't carry anything essential. I advise you, too, Madam President, to advise Mr. President to withdraw his proposal, not to cause confusion among the ranks, including those who broadcast it, because we see this confusion. We see how from GERB, the Reformation Block, the Patriotic Front, voted against to include the cameras of BNT and to include the Bulgarian National Radio. Why? What are they ashamed of? What are they hiding from? We're talking about a consultation, aren't we? We want to ask the people, but we hide from the people. This absurdity, which is being played here today, must be said clearly, shown and exposed, because otherwise we continue to sink into a demagogy from which there is no escape. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I propose to all of you that we put an end to these debates, put an end to this proposal, postpone it or try to persuade Mr. President to withdraw it, as there is no point in dealing with matters that have no public significance. In no way contribute to the standard of living of the Bulgarians, in no way contribute to the security of Bulgaria, as we are currently in front martial law and Mr. President continues to pour oil into the fire, pointing large and friendly to us countries for enemies. In the beginning, this wrong policy, which Mr. President, as commander-in-chief and head of foreign policy, is leading...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u109	Please return to the referendum.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u110	...goes and leads to a very, very dangerous perspective. Thank you, Madam President, for this reminder, but I can't help but say these things, I'm sorry. I'm telling them frankly, I'm saying them out loud, so I've always talked, so I'm gonna keep talking. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u111	Thank you. Replices to Mr. Siderov? I won't. There's a word for words, Mr. Mestan. Colleagues, we're going to take a break at 13:30, and I'm announcing it so there's no comment before which of the speakers in this order in which they signed up, I'm announcing it. I'm adding Mr. Nikiforov up to now. We're listening, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. President, we have heard with great interest the motives with which you present your idea of calling a referendum on three issues affecting the electoral system. You don't have to be a sociologist to account for the public degree. There are strong expectations, positive, related to all three issues. Yes, in Bulgarian society there are sincere expectations to introduce the majority choice of the MPs. It is also likely that expectations are prevailing for the introduction of compulsory votes, but here we are putting this thesis at a certain level of doubt. As for the e-voting, it is possible again that the moods are predominantly positive. In my opinion, however, the expectations in relation to the introduction of a direct majority choice of the MPs are most highlighted. And that's the problem, Mr. President. These are not just rational expectations. These are the irrational super-expected product of the stubborn suggestion and from us politicians that through the majority choice we will offer the Bulgarian citizens the magical solution of all problems and social, and economic, all problems will be solved with a magic wand through the introduction of, in your words, a mixed proportional-majorite system. We heard it from you today. You made it very clear that after the changes in the electoral system, the political system will improve qualitatively. We have always been honorable when we express considerations about ideas, initiatives, even the Head of State. And now I'm going to look at you and tell you, Mr. President, world practice shows that this thesis is at least problematic. If I'm being completely honest, I'd say this is an illusion. It's not true by its nature. If it were true that majority vote leads to a better quality of a political system, we should take into account in comparative terms that all countries in the European Union that have a proportional electoral system have a poor quality of the political system and vice versa only those with a majority electoral system enjoy a quality political system. There is no way to say such a thing not only by you, by any responsible politician. The truth is the opposite. There are countries with a proportional system of very good quality of the political system, but also other countries where this system has severe problems. A classic example could be Bulgaria. Turns out Greece, too. Respectfully, there are countries with a majority electoral system in which there is an undeniable high quality of the political system. That's my first point. The second, if the majority system was panacea, why is it an exception within the European Union? I ask: why is it an exception? Are politicians dumber than we are in 80? 85 percent of the Member States of the European Union in which the proportional electoral system rules because in a classic form we have a majority electoral system only in England and France? For the German, so-called, proportional-majorite system, I will speak in a moment to prove to you that it is essentially a 100% proportional system, which, however, allows the vote to be personified. This is a completely different philosophy, and that is why it is important for me to know what is being proposed today. Dear Mr. President, I may be making a tenth speech on the subject: what distortion of political representation can lead to the introduction of even in option two thirds proportional, one third mixed proportional-majoritarian system, if we do not mean the German electoral system, which, I repeat, is a personified proportional election system? I also explained with the language of arithmetic that in Bulgarian conditions, if the first political force in 100% proportional system wins 40% of the effective votes of the parties that skipped the 4-percent barrier, 96 mandates, the same political power.. the first if the proportional majority system is introduced not according to the German model, and in the classic version the 80 are selected majority, 160 proportional and the party takes everything it has won from the majority, but also takes its percentage of the 160s. This same political force in Bulgarian conditions will make its own majority of 139 MPs. Is that what we want? If we do not want to, we must clearly say to the Bulgarian citizens: "We offer you to introduce a mixed proportional majority system, but according to a German model, by a German model.... without this word being contained in the question, because it would be offensive to our national identity, but the idea must be contained in the question. Otherwise, we come to severe distortions of representation. Before the question is raised, we all have the right to say our views on how to choose our MPs, we need to be sure that our vote will be correctly taken into account that the representation of the parties will be adequate to the will of the sovereign, because in the majority vote the risk of distortion is not just great, it is mandatory. Again, Mr. Stoilov, I will set an example with the United Kingdom. In the last election, Mr. President, the liberals of our friend Nick Clegg won 8% of the vote of the English voters and against 8% won eight mandates in this edition of the English Parliament. Eight terms! At the same time, the Scottish Nationalist Party with only 4% scored 56 MPs. Fifty-six MPs! These are the risks of majority choice. All rational arguments are in favour of maintaining the proportional electoral system. The only argument in favour of the majority element is the irrational irrational one of the high expectations of Bulgarian citizens. And if this is the main argument that leads us, then we must be honorable to the expectations of the voters to give them everything they want without reduction. Therefore, Madam President, on behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group, I am making an official proposal for the following version of Question No 1: If you're going to be populists, be all the way. There is another possible version of this issue, only I don't know if we're ready for today. The question may be: "Do you agree to introduce a mixed proportional-majorite electoral system?".... which, however, will ultimately reflect the percentage of votes received in the elections, that is, the German electoral system. Today we have to make our decision with the clear awareness that if a mixed proportional and majority electoral system is to be introduced in Bulgaria, it should be a German model. There, if Mrs Merkel's party wins 50% of the votes of the German voters in the next election, she will have 275 MPs from the 550-member Bundestag, no matter which basket from the majority or proportional, will gather these 275 mandates. And if she happens to win all 275 one-man majority districts, she'll take, do you know how many of the 275 proportional zeros. Because the number of mandates is determined in advance by the party's percentage. If I can give an example with my colleagues on the right, if they have 10%, they should eventually have 24 MPs, if they have 20, God willing 48, even if they have won zero one-mandated election districts. If we're going to introduce such a system, you have our support, Mr. President. Otherwise, the DPS will not be an accomplice by changing the electoral system to provide a service one-party majority of the first political power in Bulgaria now is GERB, tomorrow can be another. Ladies and gentlemen, this is precisely why, when we are talking about the referendum, especially given the hypothesis that the result would be binding to the National Assembly, we must once again keep a high awareness that in this case the whole-built Bulgarian people, the sovereign, are sitting as a legislative body and this raises the question of responsibility, of the consequences. The responsibility cannot be sovereign, it will ultimately be our responsibility to the one who initiated the referendum and those who will support the draft decision. As for the question of the mandatory vote, here the main motive of Mr. President is the achievement of a higher level of public legitimacy of the representative authorities. Dear Mr. President, this is indeed a problem of representative authority representation, public legitimacy is a problem. With low turnout, this representation is quite problematic. [[Reply from DPS: "Extending time. "]] Yeah, time extension. It is really problematic, only how do we ensure a higher public legitimacy by forcing them to vote for us in order to be more representative or by reforming the parties? I think that a higher quality of the political system will be achieved not through reforms in the electoral system, but through the reform of the parties. It cannot replace the subject of responsibility for low public legitimacy and this responsibility to be transferred from parties to voters to the sovereign. I will not repeat the others, how to say, distortions of the political process related to the mandatory vote of runoff for local authorities and a representative on the left to be forced to choose between two candidates on the right. I will not give any more extreme examples of how our voters can be forced to vote for candidates either to the Ataka. Or to the Patriotic Front who have qualified for the run-off. Isn't that what the obligation involves? I turn to the democratic thought of all parties, but I turn my eyes to the right because I think this has nothing to do with our understanding of democracy. And it's no coincidence, Mr. President, I'm also going to argue with you that the vote is known and is a drug, and I quote you literally, I'm putting quotes. First, if he's familiar at all, he's known in very small countries, that is, he's an exception. One bright exception is Greece. We have seen what medicine the mandatory vote for the political process in Greece is. And that it's not a cure, that's out of doubt. Not only is it not a cure. My fellow Members and I are deeply convinced that the mandatory vote will lead to a deepening of the vices of the political system. Furthermore, when we are talking about introducing an obligation to vote, we must first have secured the right to vote. The Bulgarian Election Code does not provide the right to vote, because only in Bulgaria certain principles such as the sedentary principle are introduced in a way that instead of saying where you can vote, when sedentaryness is introduced so in European countries that when it tells you where you cannot vote, it necessarily gives you an opportunity somewhere to be able to vote, only in Bulgaria this principle is introduced by introducing a cumulative requirement of exclusioning conditions and principles that lead to a ban, to deprivation of constitutional right to vote. That is, a party that has not resolved the issue of ensuring the right to vote today is debating a referendum, and then introducing an obligation to vote on it is a paradox that can hardly be explained to the voters of the DPS, who, in particular, are affected by these restrictions and have violated their constitutional rights. As far as electronic voting is concerned. We agree with you that this is the vote of the future. We don't mind here. Our observations are on whether Bulgaria is technologically ready. The DPS Parliamentary Group looks positively at the idea of introducing an e-vote by binding this support with the strong requirement that electronic voting be introduced in a way that first guarantees freedom of vote because, do not be misled, the electronic vote contains much more conditions for a controlled vote than the ugliest practices we see today in the country's political process. And, secondly, certain guarantees that each vote will be correctly taken into account. Guarantees against fraud through whoever controls the software. Otherwise, as a liberal party, we are open to support this modern decision, which is a solution aimed at the future. Sooner or later it will happen, even directly the will of us as MPs. I'm graduating, Mr. President. I think there's a need to correct Question No. 1. [[the President signals that time has run out]] or in a version which clearly suggests that it is an idea for the German model of a proportional majority electoral system, or otherwise, if the only argument is the expectations of the voters, the proposal of the DPS for 240 majority elected MPs must be voted by anyone who claims to hear the voice of the people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u113	May I have the paper in writing, Mr. Mestan? I was able to record just your first proposal. Do you have in writing the proposals? Please give them to me. Any lines to Mr. Mestan? I won't. Colleagues, take a 30-minute break. Then we continue with Mr. Velizar Enchev's statement. We'll continue at 2:05. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u114	I ask the MPs to take their seats. The sitting continues with Mr. Velizar Enchev's statement. We're listening, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u115	Madam President, honourable Members, distinguished absent Mr. President! With all due respect to the institution of the Head of State, I must say that the proposals of the Head of State Rosen Plevneliev are a gift to the Bulgarian people. That's why I think so. What are my motives for refusing to support the three proposals made by the Head of State here in the National Assembly? Yes, I support the mandatory vote in fulfilling three very important conditions. The first condition was given by the National Representative Maya Manolova at the beginning of this year, which proposed if there is a mandatory vote in the Republic of Bulgaria, there should be a newsletter on which it says: "Vote against all." In this sense, I do not agree with Mr. Yanaki Stoilov, who proposes that in the mandatory vote there be a penalty against those who do not vote. This is not democratic and is a repressive measure which in no way goes to a country as democratic as Bulgaria. The second condition on which I would support the mandatory vote is constitutional change. It was said by those who spoke before me that the text in the Constitution should be changed, which says that voting is a right, not an obligation. Are you ready, honourable Members, to make this constitutional change right now and right now to ask this question to the Constitutional Court, as you have done with the planned changes in the Bulgarian Constitution? The third condition to oblige Bulgarian citizens to vote is purely financial. It's financial, and you remember what I mean. At the end of last year in the vote on Budget 2015 and in February this year in the Law on Political Parties, I proposed a state subsidy for all parties that received more than 1% in parliamentary elections to fall from 11 to 5 BGN. Last week you refused this item to be on the agenda. Therefore, I believe that there is a mandatory vote, the state subsidy for parties who received more than 1% for parliamentary elections should fall not to BGN 5 and then I will suggest that it become BGN 1. or 50 euro cents, as it is in the Federal Republic of Germany. It is a pity that the Head of State is absent to ask him why he has not yet responded to a question put in writing by journalist Paun Tsonev, who three months ago asked him a series of questions which I will sum up in 2013 - honourable Members - to the elections that took place in Parliament and all who received more than 1% - received from the state budget 45 million. lv. a subsidy, provided that 50% voted by those entitled to vote. I mean, with a mandatory vote of 100%, all parties with votes over 1% will get, how much? I'm calculating right now: 90 million. lv. Each year or for a period of four years as much as our term in Parliament, the colossal amount of 360 million. lv. That is, if Mr. Plevneliev were here, I would ask him: You must first call on the parties to reduce their subsidies, to make the necessary constitutional changes, to accept Maya Manolova's proposal for the newsletter against all and then to propose a similar referendum with this issue. Under these three conditions, I would support the proposal. As far as the Head of State's question of majority choice is concerned, honourable Members, I would like to ask the following question. This question does not specify at all what exactly will be the part of the MPs who will be elected majority. In addition, there will be inequality in the majority vote. Some candidates will be selected in electoral districts with 100,000 voters and others with more than 40 thousand. By quoting authority in this area, let me quote Prof. Mikhail Konstantinov, who directly informed us what the election result would be if the proposal was accepted that 240 MPs be elected majority. His calculations are categorical in the majority vote GERB will have 160 MPs, DPS 40 MPs, the rest, other parties including BSP 40 MPs in total. I mean, in full majority vote, they win, which ones? Two parties: GERB and DPS. That is, the proposal until recently of Mr. Mestan for a 100% majority vote, which is a provocation in the good sense of the word, if it is adopted at all, is categorically in favour of two parties of GERB and of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. There are a series of reasons that make me think that the old proportional electoral system should be preserved. The first reason is that the elections to the European Parliament are entirely in proportion. This is the practice in the European Union. It has already been said that in Germany some of the MPs are elected majority, but take the seats won by their parties with proportionate lists. A pure majority vote exists in only two countries in the European Union. These are Britain and France, but you will agree that these are countries with centuries-old democratic tradition and practice, which cannot be said for the Republic of Bulgaria. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Let me finish and just say this, Madam President, if I may: the electronic vote, if accepted in its current version in this low political culture of Bulgarian citizens, will degenerate into electronic replacement and fraud. Because we know how to buy votes in gypsy ghettos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u116	Any lines to Mr. Enchev? I won't. It's okay for you to say it, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u117	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I would like to begin by saying that the Committee on Legal Affairs has very much been commented on whether or not a change in the questions proposed by the President of the Republic is acceptable or not and the change is unacceptable. But what I think is clear and undeniable is that these issues obviously cannot be rewritten. What I heard from the left at least at the beginning, for me was an absolute rewrite of the questions and in practice, especially from the question of majority choice, nothing was left of the original question. So obviously this isn't editing, and I can't accept that it's editing so that something like this can be done. We in the Reformation bloc have always been active on the topic of referendums, for hearing the voice of the people, the voice of the Bulgarian citizens. Including we had introduced our own bill of amendments to the so-called "Kostikats' Act', which largely eased the order for referendums to take place. Unfortunately, it wasn't accepted. I will not give you back to last week what happened to some good proposals that were made by colleagues from GERB and which were last minute withdrawn with vague motives, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is actually questioning the legitimacy of this referendum and we all need to be aware that people among us are also responsible for this thing. It was nice to hear, too, Mr. President, because in practice, I have a feeling that once again we can stay with an initiative, but without a referendum. Without a referendum, as in the last term, practically blocked the holding of such a referendum. You remember, many of us on the right collected signatures including to hold this referendum, which was then blocked by the majority of Oresharski and was practically sent into oblivion. Now we are trying again to hold this referendum, I hope it will be successful, but given those things that I mentioned about the changes, or rather the lack of changes in the Law on referendums, the problem remains. With regard to the questions themselves, I will offer you an amendment of the first question, which seems much more appropriate and much more orderly than all that has been heard so far, which is after the words of the first question have been removed from it at the beginning and further words are added at the end of the sentence. The question gets as follows: Do you support the Members of the National Assembly to choose majority by extending the preferential vote? Or, in other words, we place the emphasis on the preferential vote as a kind of majority vote that Bulgarian citizens feel like they liked, understood and started using more and more actively. You remember last year it was introduced for the first time for the European Parliament elections, then attended the elections for MPs and it was seen that it was really increasing the percentage... [[BSP LB.]] On the left, I ask you not to replicate me, because in practice, there is a much stronger majority vote than what you were proposing. So from a place really let's not replicate, I listened patiently. This is also why we propose this issue, and I really believe that the proposed change is editorial and not, as on the left, a complete rewrite and rewrite was proposed, which has nothing to do with the original text. We have always supported e-voting from the Reformation Block over the years and will continue to support it. We really believe that we need to find the technological solution, to ensure the security of the anonymity of the vote and that this issue does not stand, but not on the basis of technical problems or technical difficulties, to seek options to stop this thing and not to allow it, once it is the future and when it is possible for millions to translate electronically, the banks to carry out transactions for billions on a daily basis, and we cannot at least try to find a technological solution in elections, as well as many countries have already done so, to ensure this security of vote and the anonymity of the vote. As far as the mandatory nature of the vote is concerned, we would like the Reformation bloc to really hear the voice of the people and here, colleagues, I really draw attention to you that we are currently voting on issues regarding a referendum that will ask the opinion of the Bulgarian citizens. We do not accept or reject the mandatory vote, and that is why it is somewhat inexplicable to me to this behaviour that I see somewhere in the centre of this House, that is, this antagonism to the mandatory vote, whether it be a means against the corporate and bought vote, is a solution that is offered for other problems of the modern electoral system. I really suggest that we listen to the Bulgarian citizens and find out what they think about it, then think about it and comply with what they have told us. We of the Reformation bloc will support the proposal for a referendum with the agreement I made with regard to our editorial proposal on a first issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u118	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the public representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I regret that Mr. President is absent because I think it would be good for him to hear all the opinions of all the political forces. Let me get to the point. My fellow Members, if I have to take you back in time, I can say that political consensus should only be on the issue of mandatory voting. And here it is appropriate to open the topic that in fact the desire to hold a mandatory vote in Bulgaria is related to opposition, first of all, to the so-called electoral crimes of which the Bulgarian society has witnessed in recent years such as buying votes, corporate vote, forgery of the vote. Moreover, a phenomenon was born in the Bulgarian society, which was called "dead souls." It turned out that 120-year-old Bulgarian citizens were also involved in the elections and that was confirmed when I asked the relevant minister a question. In fact, from the questions raised for a referendum by Mr. President, this is the only issue of mandatory voting that should find full political support. And that means that no political force, in fact excuse, except one, should refuse the mandatory vote in Bulgaria. The right to choose is not only a right, but indeed, as Mr. Yanaki Stoilov said, leads to an obligation. Because as you have an obligation to import taxes, so you also have the right to determine how to import them and even if you do not import them by paying the accrued interest accordingly if the limitation period does not expire. Moreover, you have the right to even appeal whether you really owe such taxes and fees, as is very often the case in the municipalities with regard to the charging of the fee. Many such reports of the municipal councils were cancelled by the Bulgarian court. And that needs to be recognised, too. As for fellow Members, the majority vote, the majority vote, the majority vote, we should actually say something that exists today in the Bulgarian Election Code and currently the Bulgarian electoral has the right to make such a majority choice by choosing the so-called candidates who essentially represent majority choice. However, I would ask you to look around and tell me: how many such independent candidates are elected as MPs? I don't think there's any. Why? Because it is clear that even the most worthy person, appearing alone, without financial security of his campaign, without providing the corresponding media time for media appearance, he has no chance. But here already arises the other more significant issue, which over the years was very acutely posed precisely by the Bulgarian society and the Bulgarian people when certain MPs elected by the relevant political power become renegades, or are already becoming independent candidates, whether these people should be recalled. And here comes the question: why is it that when we talk about majority choices, we do not put the first basic question? One that has changed the program of the political power from which he was elected, then to be, naturally, recalled. However, this question is not raised. I will not say that the so-called majority choice, which today is proclaimed to us by the President, is actually a service of certain oligarchic structures. Because only oligarchy has the financial opportunity to secure the choice of such a majority candidate. There is no way that an ordinary person was even the most worthy, even the most worthy doctor who saved tens of thousands of lives, would not write in the ballot: "This is the worthy doctor who saved, for example, 50 thousand. human lives, which are absolutely sufficient to be selected majority. It's just not gonna happen. In fact, the majority choice offered to us today gives us the opportunity, as we have said not once or twice, to raise faces, mostly using their popularity. These can be folk singers, these can be, unfortunately, people we looked at in the back with an apology, I say, here, very close to the National Assembly, gathering tens of thousands in stadiums and defileing the growing generation. This is today's proposed issue of majority choice, something that we from the Patriotic Front cannot support, because this is no longer democracy, and this is a distortion of democracy and a deception of the Bulgarian people. We from the Patriotic Front and from the TV station have experience. I would say we are the pioneers who organised and held not one or two referendums. But here I must immediately open the clamp, which is preceded by the retreat that the colleagues of the majority made the previous week when a referendum had to be fixed. Because this is the more important question... do we really want to hear the people and give them the opportunity, when we hear it, to recognise this referendum as a legitimate referendum, to have its power. I said that hundreds of thousands of signatures, which we have collected over the years, stand on dusty shelves in the National Assembly Hundreds of thousands! Hundreds of thousands! Imagine that, fellows! If I have to open a clamp for populism and the way of manipulation through a referendum: should I remind you that some political forces today are parliamentary represented only by the power of populism, promising the Bulgarian people pensions of 500 leva. And minimum salaries of 1000 leva?! Come on, now think about it: will there be a problem to call a referendum and collect the necessary signatures if we ask the Bulgarian population a question of the Bulgarian people: do you want the pensions to be 1000 BGN?? Logic shows that at least two million pensioners must sign their signatures immediately. Another question is where will the money come from for the payment of these 1000 leva. pension. Naturally, the practice shows that in 1997 the pensions were 40 000, 100 000 leva each, with the small detail that there were conditions of hyperinflation, galloping inflation. So that's possible, too. Another question is whether anyone here wants it. I will not stop and give you examples of the so-called referendum in Greece, because I think that any normal person should answer the question: is it possible for a referendum to be organised in just five days? Do you think that's possible? In five days only ballots cannot be printed, let alone any advertising and information campaign. Here we are already entering the area of populism, which the President, regrettably aware or not, tried today to promote with this proposal for a referendum. In two months there will be local elections in Bulgaria. According to this decision, if it is adopted in the National Assembly, a referendum will have to be held. Come on, now tell me: on which information campaign will the Bulgarian citizen focus on the one in which he should choose the relevant municipal council, the respective mayor who will set his standard of living for the next four years, or on that information campaign, which, be assured, will not exist at all, for holding a referendum? It's just gonna be a total mix-up. I would also like to say a few words about the so-called electronic remote vote. There is hardly anyone who is healthy and sober who does not realize that this is the way, the easiest way for a controlled and bought vote. There is no easier way than the so-called remote electronic vote! There's no easier way. If we accept this third point today, it simply means legitimizing a large part of the electoral crimes that everyone here has spoken against! This is precisely why, honourable Mr President, and seeing from the speeches of the previous Members of the National Assembly that there is no consensus, we from the Patriotic Front, and I personally, make the following proposal that the vote on these three points be divided! I hope you recorded my proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u120	It's not hard to remember.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u121	The vote on these three points should be taken on a case-by-case basis! This is the right decision that the National Assembly must take. Separately for majority choice, divided for compulsory voting and separately for the amendment that should legitimise vote buying, manipulated vote. Colleagues, I'm only gonna give you one simple reference that's official. It was published in the latest Report on integration of Roma population. In this Report, according to official reports, 118,000 people of this population, so I understand, are completely illiterate! That's how it's written in the Report. It's not my fiction. And 80,000 never went to school! I ask: how will these people, for example, carry out their right to vote electronically if they cannot read?! And how they're gonna handle the computer, I personally can't explain it. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Of course, we don't underestimate them at all. We know that they will have attached, as recorded in this Report, one of the Roma leaders with whom it is a conversation. We are against this form because it is clear from now on that this will be an opportunity to distort and manipulate the elections, and it is hiding behind the will of the people. It's very easy to speak expertly, knowing that people in most parts won't understand you. But today, things need to be said clearly and in an accessible language. Ladies and gentlemen, it was not far off in 2009, when there were once majority elections and when it was born, I say again, with an apology, without wanting to offend anyone, the expression that in a political power and donkey had been erected, all majority candidates would have been elected. That was the truth. This gave birth to the people as an expression, and we cannot deny it. However, this form of majority and proportional elections proved its inefficiencies. Many of us present and speaking colleagues have commented on the broad parliamentary representation of the Bulgarian people, and there can only be one when there are more political forces, expressing the different views. Finally, to conclude, it would be interesting if the Bulgarian people knew the working mechanisms of the National Assembly. A majority elected candidate to explain how he will execute his election platform, provided that with his only voice he cannot change a vote in any way or predestinate one in committee?! There is another interesting option: if this candidate is really majority elected, who would suggest that he become, for example, a member of the committee? If none of the other powers want to offer it, he'll fall into the unpleasant situation to suggest himself. You know what I mean? Or perhaps the president would suggest it? But do you understand what paradoxes, purely technological, are we entering these proposals today? I therefore repeat again, Mr President, our proposal is that the vote on these three points be carried out separately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u122	In writing, would you like to present this to me? [[Noise and lines.]] - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Bajraktarov, I find it strange for you and the Patriotic Front when you talk about Bulgarians abroad and how we should allow Bulgarians abroad to receive Bulgarian citizenship, in Moldova, in Ukraine, Bulgarians in Macedonia, who are Bulgarian citizens and want to be Bulgarian citizens, to relieve their rights more easily, those of Bulgarian origin, to receive Bulgarian citizenship, how you say that they will, if you see, manipulate the vote by voting electronically, remotely. I would like to remind you that about a million and a half Bulgarian citizens are in North America, in South America, in Germany, in Spain, these are the Bulgarian citizens who are here for this quarter, if I am not mistaken, 86 million have sent to Bulgaria. These are some serious investments. Will these be the people who will be bought their vote to deprive them of the opportunity to participate actively in politics in Bulgaria by voting electronically? You do not need to be an expert to know that they are scattered there and there is no way to travel 200, 300 or more miles to exercise their vote. Let's think about these Bulgarian citizens being able to exercise their vote electronically, remotely, and why not have a separate, independent multi-mandatory area where they can vote for the choice of Bulgarians, Bulgarian citizens who are abroad? So let's not completely deny the possibility of electronic remote voting. Of course, with all those who have spoken here in the case of guarantees that there will be no abuse of the vote, it will be correctly counted and there will be no possibility of voting from one place to pass 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u124	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Bajraktarov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Lazarov, I, by the way, thank you very much for this line, because you essentially did not deny all my views on the fact that the electronic vote actually created an opportunity for the easiest manipulation of the elections. However, I would like to read to you the text proposed by the President: Did you hear about the Bulgarians who are abroad, the Bulgarians who are in America, Canada, Greece? No, you didn't. Right? You didn't hear anything, did you? So in no case do I accept your form of distortion of my reasonings, which I have made, because if I have to go back in time, it is we from the National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria, for years we have reacted that no conditions are created for these Bulgarian citizens to have the opportunity to vote by not creating sections. A regime has been established that you very well know what it is by filling out applications from a certain number of people. Well, why didn't you create such an easy regime so that these people could vote? Why didn't you? I'm asking you because you were still a ruling political force?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u126	We did it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u127	No, you didn't! No, you didn't, because it took some people, including my daughter, to travel 800 kilometers to go vote. If that's what you think is done?! [[GERB lines.]] Not to tell you that you closed down some embassies in Italy, as happened with the embassy in Milan, so they couldn't vote. Just don't make me state the facts and the evidence, because that's not the point. [[(Comments from GERB: This is the dispute! This is the dispute!]] . The dispute is essentially that it is given the opportunity to manipulate the elections! To be manipulated because I will immediately ask you another question: how will you organize the information campaign for these Bulgarians abroad? I ask you: how will you enable an expedition that is 7,000 meters above sea level, below Mount Everest, where there is no practical Internet?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u128	To whom is the question, Mr. Bayraktarov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u129	How will you arrange it? How will you organize, for example, at the North Pole or at the South Pole another Bulgarian group that carries out an expedition to conduct its right to electronic choice? There's no way you can do that, and not to tell you that in a large part, for example, in some of the so-called "developed countries" [[the chairman gives a sign that time has run out]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman, there's no Internet. It doesn't even have the Internet! [[(Comments from GERB: On TV Skat will vote!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u130	Yeah, Skat TV has it! [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u131	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. For the next speech there is the popular representative Lachezar Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u132	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the political party's parliamentary group, I will express the following opinion. We listened to the President's speech, which made it clear that he supports the mixed electoral system, stressing that Bulgarian citizens also want to vote majority, but should not oppose the proportional vote. In this regard and on the subject of the questions presented to us for discussion, we express the following opinion. On the first question, do you support some of the Members of the National Assembly to be elected majority? This clears the legal and legal formula in any way. It becomes clearer and this proposal we do in relation to the provision of art. 13, para. 6 of the Law on the direct participation of citizens in state and local self-government, and the National Assembly can edit without changing the meaning of the issue contained in the proposal. I think we've done this exactly and correctly, and that's how the legal formula is cleared. As far as the second question is concerned, do you support the introduction of a mandatory vote in elections and national referendums? Naturally, it raises the question to what extent the right to vote is in line with the obligation to vote and how the issue in our Constitution is resolved, but I would like to remind you of art. 1, para. 2 of the Bulgarian Constitution, where it is written: the power is carried out by the people, I do not quote verbatim, immediately, in the first place, and through my bodies provided for in the Constitution. We therefore believe that the referendum is a very important and useful form for implementing the immediate power of the Bulgarian people. With regard to the third issue, we believe that this is the path for the adoption of such a vote, and this is the modern time path, to be able to vote remotely and electronically in the conduct of elections and referendums. We could not in any way and with no arguments to stop the form of the electronic vote. The world is a global village. On the other hand, we hold the measures that, technically and technologically, will be taken in order to make this vote fair and objective, in such a way as to guarantee the vote that there is no dose of doubt that someone will try to manipulate the vote through their technical capabilities. At this stage, we take the view that the political party's Parliamentary Group "Alternative for Bulgarian Revival" will support the proposals made, with the amendments that we propose in question No 1, which we provide in writing to the President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikiforov. Do you have any lines, fellow Members? I can't see. For the next speech, the People's Representative Valeri Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u134	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Firstly, I would like to ask for an extension of the time on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u135	It's already extended.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u136	Thank you very much for the reminder. So to the big question: what will the referendum initiated by Mr. President bring us? I am not convinced that the reasons that Mr. President has put forward before us are being realised in depth by the institution and given all those arguments that have been put forward, namely that the current way of holding the elections, in the President's words, raises doubt that by introducing a new technology of election of the people's representation we will bring stability to vote for personality and strengthen the relationship between the voters and their electors. I only list some of the arguments and I will try to clarify why they are untenable. First of all, about the majority choice and the personal responsibility of the MPs. Honourable Members, even in the majority electoral systems, once elected, Members of the National Assembly participate in the legislative process on behalf of and through parliamentary groups. There are no MPs who, as individual physical and political units, participate in some abstract process and report directly to their constituents. Such an idea of politics is not professional and is not based on the current tradition within the European continent and beyond. Further, the arguments developed by the Head of State "the argument concerning compulsory voting. I can't understand why we speak, I mean Bulgarian citizens, Bulgarians and their representatives in the legislative power, are constantly trying to find some experience outside Bulgaria to solve our political issues. How many countries enjoying a majority system and which have an obligation for their citizens to vote? So what if we oblige Bulgarian citizens to vote? Is that gonna strengthen democracy?! The issue relating to the electronic vote. Here I would like to draw attention to other people's experience, as everyone likes to say. The only document that has made a serious analysis of the results of electronic voting is from 2014, initiated by the French Senate, and this is an informative report on the state of election results and the French political institutions as a result of the partial electronic voting. I will only address some of the main conclusions and recommend that whoever wishes to look at it. We are talking about the following conclusions: e-voting is extremely expensive given the specifics of the need to introduce specific software, special voting transmission systems, verification of vote and so on. Secondly, introducing a voting spot. When we talk about electronic voting here, I don't know why everyone seems to have the idea that they are standing somewhere in the global village on the other side of the world with their feet on the desk and choose the Bulgarian President. That is not going to happen, honourable Members. If we want to introduce a similar form of vote that someone assures us is from the future, there should also be room for voting. The introduction of a voting place means that you can vote by electronic means, but there must be guaranteed security of the vote. Last but not least, Mr. President's initiative to hold a referendum is obviously not dictated by motives for improving the political process, it is not dictated by motives for strengthening democracy. It will not bring and will not lead to greater security in Bulgarian citizens in the way in which they are managed, and the only result of this initiative will be blocking to a large extent the election process in the autumn of the local elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u137	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. - What's the line? I won't. For the next speech, the People's Representative Willy Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u138	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The debate that we are leading focused mainly on the three issues that the President is proposing, but I would like to draw attention to an important issue that seems to be lost in our debate. These three questions concern three technical elements of the electoral system, and the electoral system itself, upon repeated application, leads to irreversible political consequences in one direction or another. In this sense, we should have a very serious debate on what will be the effect on the political system as a result of the application of mandatory voting, e-voting and, of course, majority voting. The impression is now almost that the Bulgarian electoral system does not contain majority elements in Bulgaria. I would like to remind you that the electoral barrier, the size of the electoral regions, the preferential vote are elements of the electoral system, which can definitely be called the majority. I'm basically going to talk about the matter of majority. Thus asked the question, without further clarification, is very misleading for Bulgarian citizens. When we talk about majority, we should always talk about an electoral barrier, we should talk about scale and scope of electoral areas, we should talk about a way of determining votes. In this sense, I strongly join the opinion that my colleague Slavov presented to you when we talk about strengthening the majority influence in the electoral system, let us talk about strengthening the importance of the preferential vote, because this is the great conquest that the Bulgarian voters and the Bulgarian Parliament managed to achieve. In this sense, when we talk about majority, we should specify, namely, in the direction of strengthening the preferential vote in the electoral system. One more thing I would like to say: when we are talking about technical elements of the electoral system, such as mandatory voting and electronic voting, we must bear in mind how they can be combined, because we definitely have a problem in combining these two elements of the electoral system. And one more thing, without being a lawyer, I would like to draw attention to the lawyers in this House, I would point out that the right of the Bulgarian citizen to vote is written in the Constitution in Chapter. That's where suffrage is written down as law. We are currently trying to make it an obligation, and in this sense we must also think about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u139	Thank you, dear Professor. Lilkov. - What's the line? I won't. The next speech is by the MP Stefan Kenov, after him the public representative Martin Dimitrov. You have the floor, Mr. Kenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, with regard to matters, I will start back and forth: do you support being able to vote remotely by electronic means? In this request, our parliamentary group has always been consistent. I believe that Mr. Dimitar Lazarov was quite comprehensive, but still, over a million and a half Bulgarians live abroad. It turns out that it is impossible for the Bulgarian state to give them the opportunity to exercise their right to vote. The Bulgarian state is in a state of demographic disaster and the only resource that we currently have and can help this state of the nation are the Bulgarians abroad. The inability to participate directly in the country's governance during the electoral process further alienates these people. The opportunity for them to be able to exercise their right as Bulgarian citizens to vote in national elections and in referendums can now be implemented only by electronic means. In any case, we will support the question under number three. The second question: do you support the introduction of a mandatory vote? For us, the question is too vague. We have repeatedly stated that we are against sanctions for people who have not exercised their right to vote. If we do not allow the voice to be exercised electronically, remotely, we are at risk of bringing the Bulgarian people into a huge adventure and journey during each election and every referendum. A large part of the Bulgarian population works far from its permanent address, where it is usually included in the electoral lists. As in some other European countries, a great migration of voters will be required the day before the elections. Thus put, the question of compulsory voting does not make clear what the President meant when asking the question. For us remains unclear this question: Will this be an incentive, a punishment, giving any privileges, if this thing does not come true? With regard to the first question on which the most views were expressed. As a liberal and a democrat, I am a defender of the proportional electoral system, which directly shows the will and demands, the representative power of the sovereign to have its real representatives in the legislative body. In any event, the introduction of a reference has led to majority elected candidates in one way or another. To the question: do you support some of the MPs being elected majority? And now there are majority elected candidates: Mr. Krasimir Yankov, Mr. Kadiev, Ms. Ana Barakova, colleagues standing in the back row; Mr. Martin Dimitrov, I think. I support him. Why wouldn't I support him?! In the entire part of the debate, the German electoral system has been heard here several times, which for me is the balance between the two demands. The majority vote in any case distorts, a mixed system would not be good either. The mixed system, if we view it as half the majority, half the proportional, will also bring a distortion of the pattern. One enhanced majority element, one personification of selected candidates gives the German system. And since it is known as slang, it is a purely proportional system in which half of the MPs, of the chosen ones, are personified on the basis of one-mandated election districts. In any case, we must take into account that the threshold for entry into the legislative body must be respected and the overall result of the parties that achieve it must be taken into account. Opponents of this system always bring out the Constitution as a flag. Yes, but we have a mathematical model that can also be applied in the context of a proportional system with half the majority elected candidates. So the obstacle 240 MPs in the Constitution is no longer an obstacle to the introduction of such a system. I've been looking for me, the best specialist in the electoral systems. Konstantinov. I would like to propose the following version of question number one to be: do you support half of the MPs being elected (personalised) majority in a proportional electoral system? Please support the proposal. I see there are similar suggestions. According to prof. Konstantinov this is the most comprehensive issue. The mathematics model for the so-called German German, German system, according to a solid number of "240," said the professor that he is ready to provide the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u141	Thank you, dear Mr. Kenov. - What's the line? There are no lines. For the next speech the public representative Martin Dimitrov, after him the public representative Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u142	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! On the issues proposed for a referendum, in terms of e-voting, fellow Members, I believe that we have no other alternative. As much as you fear technical problems, this is the future. One of the main ideas of the European Union is the free movement of people. Since we have said that people can go where they want to work, they should also be able to vote electronically without problems. There is no reason they should have to go back to their homeland to exercise their voice that is absolutely unnecessary spending in a modern world where we do everything with our computers. There is no reason, since we use all kinds of complex bank cards in which we keep our money, we make international, internal transactions, such a system not to be introduced in respect of the vote. The fact that so far we are not giving hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens around the world the opportunity to vote is a kind of discrimination against them. It is high time to give the opportunity for all Bulgarians around the world to participate, vote, choose, bear this responsibility and influence the development of Bulgaria. So they will be much more involved from now on. As regards the matter concerning the majority vote. I strongly support the idea that my colleague Slavov presented to you: do you support the people's representatives to be elected majority by extending the preferential vote? That is to say, for us, majority choice is by extending the preferential vote. [[BSP LB.]] Colleagues, if you'll be patient, I'll explain it to you very simply. In pure form, majority vote means the following thing: in a single area a party, for example BSP, because they are the loudest in the room, not for another, raise a single candidate. They say this is the guy, if you want a majority vote, you vote for him. It's the majority system in its pure form. Accordingly, GERB is one candidate and all other parties on one candidate, i.e. the majority vote in its pure form restricts the choice of citizens to a single candidate. It is very interesting, for example GERB party to remember 2009 when there was majority choice, you know, 31 MPs were elected majority, their majority candidates in Sofia won, but received below the proportional votes for GERB party. A very interesting question with which citizens say, about me, the following thing is that there were probably people in the party itself who were more appropriate but were not offered them. That is, when the majority candidate has a party's proportional vote, that is how it works.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u143	And how were you, excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u144	I'm not saying this to pick on anyone, coworkers. I say something else that when there is a preferential vote without a threshold, this gives the opportunity, colleagues, Bulgarian citizens to choose from 30 candidates from a party, like GERB, 30 candidates from BSP, 30 candidates from the Reformation bloc and to completely rearrange the lists. That is, the choice of Bulgarian citizens is much greater. It does not come down to one candidate from a particular party. Therefore, when there is a preferential vote without a threshold, Bulgarian citizens can choose from dozens of candidates. Even in one family, one person may vote for one candidate of a party, his wife for another candidate of the same preferential list, his children for the third. This is real democracy. If you accept the majority vote in its pure form, I say again, this limits the possibility for Bulgarian citizens to only one candidate. The choice of people comes down to a single person who is defined how? Very simply, the party's leadership is gathered and says in the given area who this candidate will be. That is, the choice of Bulgarian citizens rather than increasing, as some colleagues are trying to say, is actually narrowing to smaller choices, which also reduces competition. That is to say, my fellow Members, that the purely majority system compared to a system on which there is a majority element and a preferential vote without a threshold, there are fewer candidates and less competition. The competition is lower. Or, in other words, I will give an example with BSP because I said they were the loudest: if in the last elections there was no preferential vote, and there was a majority vote, there was no way in Sofia to elect Mr. Kadiev, for example, because he was the ninth, and he would have been chosen if at all a majority candidate from BSP, who the party had decided to put to majority choice. One man for this region! That is, colleagues, I am trying to argue that if we want to raise the voter turnout, you saw in the last elections that there is a problem with voter turnout not only in Bulgaria, in many countries, if we want a higher turnout, we need to give people the opportunity to vote among dozens of candidates. To choose different people, even, I say, in one family, that people vote for different candidates, absolutely acceptable, absolutely democratic, encouraging the activity promoting electoral activity. If the matter is preserved in its current form, there is the following danger. The question is this: Do you support some of the MPs to choose majority? Those who want the German system will vote for the German system. Those who want pure majority choice, and they are likely to vote for........................................................................................ And those who see an extended preferential vote in this, and they will be voting for.................................................................................................. Eventually, one of three things will be accepted. It's fair to correct our question, to ask people clearly, not to ambiguity what we ask them. I propose in this revision, colleagues, that we give the biggest choice that can be given to Bulgarian citizens. For me, that's what people want. People want to choose from more candidates. People don't have a problem with a party assigning them the only majority candidate. If they were, they'd be totally happy as of 2009. In my opinion, people want to choose from dozens of candidates, and the only way to give them this opportunity is the preferential vote without thresholds. This is the option in which they can choose the ninth Georgi Kadiev and prefer him to the eight of the BSP who ordered him on the list before him. It's democracy. The same applies to the GERB Party, the Reformation bloc, the Patriotic Front, each of the parties that are represented today in parliament and each of the parties that will be represented in parliament tomorrow. Colleagues, I hope you will support the arguments I have presented to you and give people the opportunity to make a large choice among dozens of candidates.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u145	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Do you have any lines, fellow Members? I won't. For a statement there is a word from the public representative Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u146	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The President's proposal for issues for a national referendum has sparked serious reflections that call into question the published kindness and concern for providing an opportunity for expression of the people's will. These issues have also prompted a broad discussion at the Committee on Legal Affairs, and I am obliged to note that in a scandalous manner, the vote was imposed only on these issues, without any other arguments and without the other alternatives put forward. I would like to refer mainly to the second and third questions, but before that I cannot pass the broad arguments that have been made here in favour of the majority vote. Colleagues on the right, do not confuse the majority vote with the proportional preferential vote! That's two different things. If you support the president, support him the way he asked the question, and don't deny it. With his proposal for a second and third question, the President evidently showed his disregard for the Bulgarian Constitution and the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which should be binding on him too. In the combination of mandatory and electronic remote voting, the possibilities for distortion of election results are virtually unlimited. Instead of people voting on phantoms and servers. Not only the Constitutional Court of Bulgaria, but also the Constitutional Court of Germany declared the electronic remote voting unconstitutional, with arguments that virtually render any kind of electronic or internet voting impossible. Here are the arguments for the unconstitutionality of the electronic remote voting, which according to the Bulgarian Constitutional Court, I quote: "Maintaining concerns not only about risks in the transmission and storage of the information by electronic means, but also because of the lack of guarantees for the voluntary and authenticity of the voter's volition. It does not guarantee the personal exercise of the right to vote and the secrecy of the vote, which is why its unconstitutionality is established. We from BSP left Bulgaria also strongly oppose the assumption of this issue as a matter of the referendum. We respect the Constitution and believe that this issue is also constitutionally unacceptable. This has already been established by the Bulgarian Constitutional Court. Dear colleagues, BSP is about holding a referendum and has proved in practice that it is for real democracy it is clear, however, that if we allow a referendum with the issues formulated by the President instead of writing eyebrows, we will pierce the eyes of the Bulgarian electoral system and Bulgarian democracy. The parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria is for direct democracy, but against the so-called issues formulated in this non-contentive and abstract general way. The answers, whatever they may be, will be detrimental to the development of democracy and the interests of the people. Democracy is not achieved with verbal equilibristics. Experiences with working institutes and mechanisms should not be made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u147	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. [[Weak applause from BSP LB.]] - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u148	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's been a long debate. Perhaps it is already coming to an end and everyone will make his choice with the vote that we will make in plenary. However, let us recall something that is extremely important. This referendum is not an initiative of the President of the country. This referendum has collected signatures of over 570 thousand. Bulgarian citizens. The questions that were asked on this petition, which was collected by Bulgarian citizens, were the questions formulated by the President of the country. Why do we need to correct texts behind over 570 thousand votes today? I believe that this is not our right, and I think it is not moral to all those citizens who signed their signatures so that we can actually hold this referendum. Why did it come to this referendum? It came because we had a government led by Plamen Oresharski, which provoked public disapproval of the political formations that ruled the country. The president of the country was charged with huge expectations and responsibilities and he formed a office. You know that everything that has happened is thanks to the fact that all political parties involved in governance in the years since the beginning of the transition, in one form or another, have led to a reduction in voter turnout, to a rejection of voters. In this way, forms of votes have been created that undermine the electoral process. These are: bought, controlled vote, when someone signals and corrupts the day for reflection. You do realize that this always leads to a distortion of exactly what we all need to avoid? What is needed today on these issues that are being asked, formulated and tabled by the President of the country? First of all, we also have the possibility of a majority element in the current elections. This element was introduced precisely by the Bulgarian Socialist Party. I would like to thank them because we really gave the Bulgarian citizens the opportunity 2009 to give an assessment of the successful management of the then prime minister and the Bulgarian citizens the opportunity to vote majority in 31 multi-manded electoral regions. GERB won 27 out of 31, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms won four and all other parties received zero. Mr. Dimitrov, this was the real result because here you gave statistics, but I think we should be correct about the exact things that happened exactly 2009. Of course this is part of the opportunity, both with the preference and a majority element, so that we can actually introduce and enable higher turnout. The electronic vote. The proposal of the GERB Parliamentary Group in the previous parliament for the introduction of a electoral area abroad was rejected. We really wanted to give the Bulgarian citizens living abroad the opportunity to have their choice and to be in a separate section. This thing didn't work out. At the moment, the e-voting will allow, it is not said that this will happen tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, after we rule on this referendum, but at least we will set conditions and opportunities to change the legislation, to give the full guarantee of non-confidence of the electoral process, to be able to vote every Bulgarian citizen who, in the years of transition in one form or another, has preferred to go to live and professionally take place abroad. These Bulgarian citizens want to be actively voters. These Bulgarian citizens can be guaranteed this right when we introduce precisely the electronic way to vote. We come to the mandatory vote. This way of voting is practiced in seven European countries. In some of them, it's been canceled over the years. In three countries at present, it continues to be an electoral process. Of course, the mandatory vote would not have been the subject of today's debate if we had not made it possible to push Bulgarian voters away from voting. We rejected Bulgarian citizens with this opposition and all political parties led to this real repulsion. That is why, fellow Members, I believe that there is a resonant in the topics we are discussing today, and the possibilities to which we will move to the next stage of today's discussion. We can make sure that in each of the submitted questions by the President of the country, who has complied with more than 570 thousand Bulgarian citizens, that we vote separately so that we can actually create an opportunity for each of the parliamentary groups to express their opinion in principle with their vote. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u149	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I can't see. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, I will put to the vote Mr. Bajraktarov's proposal, as it is under procedure for separate voting on the three issues separately. Isn't that right, Mr. Bayraktarov? I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal for a separate vote on the three issues of initiating a national referendum. Vote 158 MPs: 158, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[Applause.]] We will now vote in the order in which editorial proposals have been made. Firstly, on the first question, then we will move on to editorial proposals on the second question. The first proposal at the time, for editing the first question, is Mr. Yanaki Stoilov, who proposes that he read: "Do you support half of the people's representatives to be elected in one-mandated areas, and when determining the mandates for the parties all votes cast for them in the one-mandated and multi-mandated areas are taken into account? " We vote on Mr. Yanaki Stoilov's proposal. They voted 159 MPs: 47, against 62, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Popov, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u150	Thank you, Madam President. Let us explain again to the colleagues, perhaps they have failed to understand Mr. Stoilov's proposal. [[Loud noise and lines. Revelations: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u151	Colleagues, please give Mr. Popov the opportunity to do his procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u152	If we support his proposal, there will be no loss of votes. Those who voted for the lost majority candidate, so-called in the one-mandated electoral districts, would not have gone to insolence with those voices. You want to have representation, you claim it here today all day, and at the same time when you vote, you get something quite different. Support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u153	It's a re-vote. Vote 159 MPs: 48 against 78, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. Now I put to the vote Mr. Lutvi Mestan's proposal, which proposed the following version of the first question: Do you support all 240 MPs to be elected majority? We are voting on Mr. Mestan's proposal. They voted 163 MPs: 43, against 78, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal for editing the first question is Mr. Petar Slavov, who proposes that it sound like this: Do you support the MPs to choose majority by extending the preferential vote? We vote on Mr. Slavov's proposal. They voted 159 MPs: 27, against 26, abstentioned 106. The offer is not accepted. Following is Mr. Lachezar Nikiforov's proposal, which reads as follows: Do you support some of the MPs to choose majority in the proportional distribution of the mandates between political parties and coalitions? They voted 193 MPs: for 85, against 33, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Obviously, two facts have become clear: firstly, there is some division with regard to the views in this text and the votes for which I will ask for a re-vote. Secondly, there were indeed colleagues around us who did not have the opportunity. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u155	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Revoting, coworkers. They voted 187 representatives: for 80, against 30, abstention 77. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on Mr. Stefan Kenov's proposal. Its editing sounds like this: Do you support half of the MPs to be elected (personalized) majority in a proportional electoral system? We vote on Mr. Kenov's proposal. Vote 189 MPs: 81, Against 41, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. And now I put the first question to the vote to sound in accordance with the President's proposal on the draft decision of the Legal Commission: Do you support some of the MPs to choose majority? They voted 193 MPs: 90 against 85, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. [[Single applause and cheering by BSP LB and PF.]] Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u156	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm making a motion to re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u157	Revoting, coworkers. Vote 196 MPs: 89, against 85, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. [[Applause by some of the MPs from BSP LB.]] We're moving on to editing the second question. The first proposal is from Mr. Yanaki Stoilov, who proposes the question to sound like this: Do you support the introduction of a mandatory vote in the elections with the provision of a penalty for failure to comply with this obligation? They voted 188 MPs: 56 against 98, 34 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. Editorial on the second question proposed Mr. Velizar Enchev. He proposes the following version: "Do you support the mandatory vote in reducing the state subsidy for the parties to 1 BGN. for vote received in elections? I put to the vote Mr. Velizar Enchev's proposal for editing. Vote 155 MPs: 16 against 85, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the issue in the draft decision of the Legal Commission, which sounds like this: Do you support the introduction of a mandatory vote in elections and national referendums? Vote 181 MPs: 98, against 58, abstention 25. The motion is accepted. Mr. Popov for revoting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u158	Thank you, Madam President. I'm doing a re-voting procedure. In law, it's an unfamiliar obligation without a sanction. We'll be a precedent here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u159	Colleagues, re-vote. They voted 164 MPs: for 80, against 59, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. [[Shouting.]] There remains the third question on which no editorial proposals have been received. I put the question to the vote: "Do you support being able to vote remotely by electronic means in the production of elections and referendums? " Voting mode. Vote 197 MPs: 147, against 36, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from DPS.]] Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u160	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u161	Revoting Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u162	Thank you, Madam President. I want a re-vote, because once again, we are witnessing another political agreement. [[(Screams from the left:) Why are you going to us?]] It's another political arrangement! If you were impressed by how the votes for mandatory voting fell so conveniently and how they were conveniently raised when we had to legitimize today's vote trade in elections through the so-called....... vote................................................................... If anyone here can say that there are measures to prevent vote-buying, manipulating the vote through this so-called vote-out, to stand up and say it. I'm sure there isn't one.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u163	People will say that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u164	People can't say that, especially your DPS voters who don't know what a computer is. [[Loud noise and lines on the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u165	It's a re-vote. [[(Replys from DPS:) He has not made a proposal. There is no suggestion.)]] He came out of re-voting procedure, he said it on the move. What else would he go out for? Vote 196 MPs: 146, against 40, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Mr. Philip Popov, first negative vote, Mr. Georgi Bojinov, second negative vote. [[National representatives of the DPS shall stand out of their seats.]] Hey, guys, where are you going? We didn't vote on the whole decision! We only vote editorials. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u166	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against the question so asked because we of the Bulgarian Socialist Party respect the Constitution. Unfortunately, the rest of the National Assembly clearly, with some exceptions of course, there is no reading in respect of the Constitution. There is a decision of the Constitutional Court, which categorically announces the electronic remote vote for unconstitutional voting not only of the Bulgarian but also of the German Constitutional Court. It is ridiculous because no computer specialist, honourable colleagues, can guarantee that in an uncontrolled environment outside the SIC, will sit next to the voter's shoulder anyone who tells him how to vote. In this regard, it is precisely the decision of the Constitutional Court. But here we saw the corporate collusion of the parties to what it could lead to. Today we have witnessed this historic corporate association. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u167	And BSP is the fourth power.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u168	Second negative vote, Mr. Bojinov. [[The National Representative Petar Slavov wants the floor.]] I'll give you the word. [[(Reply from BSP LB to MP Petar Slavov: You support him, don't you?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] Second negative vote, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u169	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I voted against all three of Mr President's proposals. The result of the vote of the National Assembly is a severe and deserved defeat for the President of the Republic. [[(SCREAMS: ……]] Tough and well-deserved... to a large extent and as a result of your vote. Because, after losing and losing the trust of the Bulgarian people, he tried with this populist move based on superficial moods and unwarranted expectations that he would gain trust and sympathy, to propose these topics for discussion. What, though, passed from the three suggestions? Just that question that allows for speculative, corporate set-up influence on election results. However, there are calming circumstances. In a well-deserved referendum, this issue will not bring support to the Bulgarian people. This question will receive a clear negative answer and this is the deserved assessment of the overall behaviour of the President of the Republic. He left for a second term, and today he finally lost it. This is the result of your vote. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u170	Is there a third negative vote? Mr. Slavov's procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u171	Thank you. Madam President, I would like to ask you, when a fellow-jurist is speaking out of the stands, he of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, and once again interprets wrongly or rather misleads fellow Members of the National Assembly on a decision of the Constitutional Court [[noise and lines]] , pay attention and tell him that, first of all, a decision of the Constitutional Court on a specific legislative text which has been repealed is mandatory under the particular legislative text. This is not an interpretive decision that applies at all to whether the electronic vote protected the secret of the vote or not and any such interpretations. So I really ask you, really, when lawyers speak in a similar, inaccurate way, not to say the wrong way, pay attention to them...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u172	It's incorrect.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u173	...from BSP and don't do it. They're putting all the other non-jurists in this room into error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u174	Dear Mr. Slavov, I think that not only fellow lawyers, but also all MPs should know that every decision of the Constitutional Court is on the basis of a specific text in a law, in a corresponding act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u175	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u176	I am not comfortable making such comments from this place and clarification to all MPs, not just to lawyers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u177	Mr. Glauchev to do it. [[The People's Representative Philip Popov comes out on the stand for a personal explanation.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u178	It's a personal explanation! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Mr. Popov, [[Replication of MP Philip Popov]] I mean, you gave that interpretation, didn't you? How to address you!? Okay, come on, explain. Colleagues, let's hear him explain, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u179	Thank you. Madam President, I hope, colleague Slavov, that you have consulted well before coming here with some of your relatives. [[Relations of MP Petar Slavov.]] But I didn't say the decision was mandatory. Look at the transcripts! [[Relations of MP Petar Slavov.]] I have explained, honourable Member, that we respect the interpretation of the Constitutional Court on similar, not to say the identical texts, in a previous bill. [[Reply of President Tsetska Tsacheva.]] In the Fidosova Code, an absolutely identical text concerning the same matter. If there is a further constitutional solution, let's see.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u180	Procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u181	But in such a text, in such a question, when the Constitutional Court is already ruling on such a similar bill with the same content, the answer is clear, a colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u182	There's a third negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u183	Lazarov's manner of conduct. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u184	Madam President, I do not call on you to take a course in reading constitutional decisions. Perhaps you should still remind that the constitutional decisions to which some refer should read them. The Constitutional Decision concerning the annulment of the secret vote in the 2011 Election Code is not interpreted in its reasons, but explicitly states in a specific procedure that remotely, by Internet voting is acceptable and exists in the practice of a number of countries. The lyrics that are written here...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u185	What's your point to me, Mr. Lazarov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u186	There's no way... [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u187	What's the remark to me?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u188	The remark is, Mrs. Tsacheva, that the MPs, quoting the decisions, should read them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u189	They have to read. Thank you. You want a third negative vote? [[Currently addressed the parliamentary group of BSP LB.]] You've given up. Mr. Merdjanov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u190	What procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u191	I don't know, now he's gonna tell us what the procedure is.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u192	Thank you, Madam President. [[Reply from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]] Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Dukova, calm down! On behalf of BSP left Bulgaria we want half an hour rest. Thank you. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u193	Colleagues, nowhere in the Rules of Procedure does it say that during the vote no rest can be requested from a parliamentary group. Fifteen-minute break! We'll continue at 4:12 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u194	The Quaestors, please invite the Members of the National Assembly to the Chamber the time for interruption is up. Colleagues, the meeting is ongoing. Mr. Kirilov, please propose the revision of the draft decision following the votes held in plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u195	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! [[People's representatives take their seats in plenary.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u196	Colleagues, please take your seats a little faster. The movement interferes with the other MPs who have done so in due course.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u197	I propose the following version of the Project for: ? RESPONSIBILITY? to produce a national referendum The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 10, para. 1, t. Art. 2 and Art. 2 13, para. 8 of the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government HAS DECIDED To produce a national referendum with the following question: Do you support being able to vote remotely by electronic means in the production of elections and referendums?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u198	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I put to the vote the draft decision, with its name for the production of a national referendum, as it should sound after the approval of only the third question, the only one, for the production of a referendum. We are voting on the draft decision that has just been updated by Mr. Kirilov. Vote 175 MPs: 131, against 41, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u199	I voted against it, colleagues, because what we are witnessing today is something unheard of in the latest Bulgarian history. You just legalized the biggest scam! And this fraud was carried out with the ruling majority of GERB and DPS. I'll tell you what's gonna happen from here on out. There will be no Indian thread this time, as well as crowds of mixed areas will have no matches, no cords to be able to vote. Everyone will vote the right way! Today the market of the most capable hackers has opened! From now on, in fact, the Bulgarian people will always be cheated at any time! Congratulations to the deceived Bulgarian people! Thank you. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u200	Here you go, Mr. Anastasov. Second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u201	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As a Bulgarian Social Democrat from Coalition, I voted with full consciousness against it, because the biggest manipulation will be carried out in the interests of oligarchs, of large capital, of those who hold the workers in their hands. They will take their e-numbers directly into their information centers, where some young boys and girls will vote as they are told. The same will happen to minority groups. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] This is what will happen to those people who are not so literate all of a sudden it will be that in Bulgaria the most literate are illiterate people! This is a crime against Bulgaria and the Bulgarian nation because the result will be ready! Almost as ready as in the football championship is clear when it begins that whoever pays the most money, he will become a champion! So in the Bulgarian elections, who holds the money that holds the capital, he will have the most votes! Just remember in America, when two choices started the manual census, suddenly it turns out that, you see, the other candidate wins votes and they canceled the manual census, given that there is a machine, in the section itself is done. When someone calls, let them think. Think about it. We'll wipe out Bulgaria! [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u202	Mr. Emil Dimitrov, third negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u203	Thank you, Madam President. I'm going to try real quick to read you the texts so I can fit in both minutes. The President's proposal is as follows: A proposal for the production of a national referendum with questions: Do you support some of the MPs to choose majority? That's the offer. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 6 of the Law, which we have just adopted, writes: The National Assembly can edit without changing the meaning of the question or questions contained in the proposal. We can edit, but we can't change the questions. And the last part of the text: and their order. Gentlemen, the third question comes first. Are we changing order right now, or are we not changing order? If there are 47 signatures, even this blaming already, a mutilated text of the referendum option can never pass, because we can do some editorial amendment, but not renumber, even if we accept the whole text. Not to mention dropping two of the texts, making the third one the first, and we believe that we are doing the same referendum that the President asked for. With 47 signatures, even this mutilated option won't work. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u204	We move on to the next item of today's agenda of the extraordinary sitting: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODECTION CODECTION CODEX. Mr. Ademov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u205	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, in connection with the discussion of the report on the second vote of the Social Security Code, I am making a procedural proposal to allow the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Galab Donev, Mrs. Petya Malakova from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Biser Petkov, Governor of the National Insurance Institute, and Mrs. Vesela Karaivanova, Deputy Governor of the National Insurance Institute.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u206	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission to the Chamber. Vote 127 MPs: 114, against 6, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, invite the guests. We're listening, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u207	Report on General Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 553-08-47, drawn up on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the basis of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Social Security Code adopted at the first vote, No 502-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 May 2015, and the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Social Security Code, No 554-01-40, submitted by Radan Kanev and a group of MPs on 26 February 2015. "Access to amend and supplement the Social Security Code.' The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u208	Statements? I won't. I vote on the Commission's proposal... [[Noise and lines.]] Excuse me? I can't hear you. For procedure, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u209	Dear Madam President, according to art. 49, para. 3 of the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure request a name check.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u210	Please give the lists. Aidoan Mutalib Ali - here Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Methodiev - here Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - here Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valentin Stefanov Vasilev - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - here Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Vyara Mikhailova Tzerovska - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Darin Ivanov Dimitrov - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dimitar Hristov Zhelev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - here Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Zdravko Dimitrov - absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - here Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Andonov Kotev - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - absent Cornelia Dobreva Marinova - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Krasimira Peneva Anastasova - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bancheva - here Mariana Georgieva Todorova - absent Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - absent Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - here Maya Bozhidarova Manolova - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - absent Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Ivanov Petrov - absent Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - here Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - absent Further entry: Boris Yachev, Jayhan Ibryamov, Korman Ismailov and Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov. There is a quorum, we are continuing the meeting. [[Reply.]] We haven't reached your letter, Mr. Tsvetanov. We are at a time of forthcoming vote on the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer on the name of the Law. We vote on the name of the Law. 120 MPs voted: 118, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Go ahead, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u211	Thank you, Madam President. I propose to my fellow Members a procedure for extending working hours until the adoption of this joint bill amending and supplementing the Social Security Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u212	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal made to extend the plenary session until the second reading of the texts on this Draft. Vote 128 MPs: 100 against 5, abstention 23. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u213	There is a proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u214	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Mrs. Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u215	Vote 128 MPs: 9 against 72, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u216	There is a proposal for a new paragraph - a proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Mr. Chairman, the report states that in the additional review of the stenography and sound recordings, it appears that there is a technical flaw. The motion is accepted. So let the Members of the National Assembly be aware that this proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u217	However, before that, let us vote on the text of the importer for § 1. We voted on Ms. Nino's proposal, which is not supported. We will now vote on the wording of § 1. Please vote on the text of the importer for § 1, supported by the Commission. They voted 121 MPs: 112 against 4, abstention 5. The text of the importer for § 1, supported by the Commission, has been adopted. And now on the proposal that you have read and which is supported by the Commission. Are there any speeches? I won't. Please vote on the proposal of the National Representative Hristo Gazhev and a group supported by the Commission. They voted 121 MPs: 114, none, abstention 7. The proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev and a group of MPs is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u218	Under § 2 there is a proposal from Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. It is identical to the proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly to drop § 2. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kovachev and a group of Members of the National Assembly to be amended as follows: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the It's six. for seafarers who have made a choice under art. 4c, para. 1, the increased contribution to the Fund "Pensions" shall be equal to the corresponding amount of the contribution under art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 1, t. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u219	Statements? I won't. We vote on the proposal of the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission, as well as the same proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 123 MPs: 16 against 45, abstention 62. The proposals of the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs, as well as Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs have not been accepted. We are voting on the proposal of MP Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 15 against 41, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the text of the importer for § 2, which is supported by the Commission, with the clarification that all paragraphs from now on will be changed because of the adopted proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev and a group of MPs. Vote 116 MPs: 103, against 5, abstention 8. Paragraph 2 of the Commission Report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u220	According to § 3, there is a proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of Parliament to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The proposal of the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs is amended as follows: .................................................. Article 4c is repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The proposal by the MP Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs is identical. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Radan Kanev and a group of MPs: Paragraph 3 shall make the following amendments: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4b, para. 1 after the words "pension fund' shall be commaed and added "born' between 1 January 1960 and 31 December 1969 and the words "five years' shall be replaced by "one year'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u221	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u222	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! I cannot miss this proposal, which is essentially a choice to change the provision of additional compulsory pension insurance in a universal pension fund, in the Fund of Pensions and in the Fund of Pensions for persons under art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. This aroused a serious public discussion as early as December, resulting in a temporary committee setting up pension funds. It became clear from the beginning that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy did not support the transfer of accounts to the so-called State Fund to ensure the sustainability of the state-owned service system. It became clear that this was a proposal from the Minister of Finance. For a long time, we have all been waiting for him to give a financial analysis and justification for how such a move would affect the deficit of the NSI budget, the state budget, and accordingly if they went to the Silver Fund to transfer the accounts, and especially how it would affect the amount of people's pensions in the future if they made such a choice. And to this day, there is no such analysis or justification. This is one of the arguments not to support this text. And another argument against this proposal. We found out what really happened after a similar amendment that we adopted in December 2014 when adopting the state social security budget. At that time, the majority took the opportunity to transfer the accounts to the NSI despite the opposition's warning. What happened? Since then, 112 million. lv. they stand to this day at the National Revenue Agency, and this is money from the personal contributions of the people who should be in their personal accounts and give them income. Due to the irregularities in this legislative change, it has come to the fact that people's money is in the NRA, and they are putting it into banks, they are profiting from interest, in which there is nothing wrong, of course, but people are being deprived of income and to this day there is no solution to this problem. And another argument this time from the perspective of the insured and what happens to their social security contributions. We will not support it, because moving to a Silver Fund does not increase the amount they have paid as an insurance contribution. The silver fund doesn't bring income. The money there will not be inherited, and if anything happens to this man, unlike the private funds where they carry such rights, his money disappears as far as the heirs are concerned. In private funds there are advantages in the case of an accident with a person, carry an additional percentage and so on. According to your proposal, that's not in the Silver Fund. That's where you come out with £1,000. And if one day you decide to go out, change your choice, you go out again with 1,000 levs, without any remuneration and no rights for the heirs. That is, if we have to compare the volume of rights for people in terms of funds and the Silver Fund, then in the Silver Fund people's rights are reduced. This is another argument not to support this change. Our last argument: we believe that this move will be used by the Minister of Finance for fiscal purposes and for strengthening, let us say, the macro indicators of the budget. It will be in the interest of the Minister of Finance, but not in the interests of the people. We will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u223	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? Dr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary! Dear Mr. Gokov, if you read this text carefully, it is not about transferring funds to the Silver Fund at all. What you read just now is in the following texts. Please read carefully. What you said for 3-4 minutes has absolutely nothing to do with the text we are discussing and voting right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u225	Any other lines? I won't. Here's your coat, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u226	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! There is indeed further talk of the transfer to the Silver Fund. Then I won't argue with that, but we're talking right here about... [[Reply from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u227	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u228	If you want, we can talk like this, but it's not very good. I also said in the beginning: here is a choice to change the additional compulsory pension insurance in the Universal Pension Fund, in the Fund. 69. If the person chooses to be provided at the National Insurance Institute (NSI), his account will be transferred directly to the Silver Fund, where the bill is later spoken. That's what this is all about. I argue that this proposal is to be rejected by the fact that money goes to the Silver Fund, does not bring income to people, does not inherit, can be used for other purposes and so on. This is our argument against the proposal made by the importer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u229	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Bayraktarov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Colleagues, this is what happens when you don't learn your lesson and copy the thoughts of other people's representatives from the stenograms. I'm saying this, by the way, for those who read them. Honourable Members, why we have requested that § 3 be repealed and, in particular, that Article be repealed. 4b? Article 4b was adopted and submitted to the National Assembly on 19 December 2014. This was the text written on the knee and which proposed the so-called Dear colleagues, and to this day this text remained in the law, but never worked for the simple reason that the Minister of Finance never issued a regulation by which to work this text. What happens when this text doesn't work? That is why I say: when someone has not learned their lesson and tries to copy the thoughts of another MP, there is no way to tell you the truth. It happened that more than 170 million and perhaps more than 250 million are already, because the number I am telling you is more than 170 million is dated March 24th, according to data exported by the National Revenue Agency in the Temporary Commission, by March 24th over 170 million private funds, private property stands on some account that damages every Bulgarian citizen whose money should be in his individual account, to bring income and so on. We want to drop art. 4b, because later he enters direct correspondence with other texts which are, to put it mildly, unclean. These texts provide in an incorrect way, if I may say so, for at least 2 billion to be redirected. lv. from the people's accounts to the Silver Fund and to the National Insurance Institute. I'm telling her to the National Insurance Institute because there's a split. If someone has read the Bill carefully, they should see that the five percent will go to the so-called In order for such a choice to exist, what has been taken from you must be returned to you, but it will not be returned to you. In other words, Bulgarian citizens will be harmed. The lawmaker is not allowed to harm Bulgarian citizens. In addition, the basic principles laid down in art. 3 of the Social Security Code. In addition to fundamentals for the operation of this Code, these principles are also fundamental in order to have confidence in the system. With the introduction of art. 4b this trust has already been destroyed. The good thing is that the Temporary Commission has proved, through all the information collected, that pension funds have worked well, that they have implemented not bad yields and from there to be the system working to respond to the last letter of the European Commission, which says, as well as in the oral report, that the costs in the NSI system must be reduced, but these costs can be reduced when you redirect the insurance to the respective private pension funds, when the individual contribution of a person is respected and he can receive the corresponding pension. Only this is the second time the Bulgarian citizen was robbed. In order to carry out balancing, the two per cent contribution by which citizens' contributions to private pension funds were to be increased was withdrawn. It goes back to the NOI system, to that cost-covering model where the money goes in and no one knows what's going on with them or where they're going. That no one knows, I'll show it to you when we look at art. The increase in age is 68. I will quote to you the official report of the NSI as of 31 December 2014, and I hope you realize the outrage we are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u231	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. [[The National Representative Philip Popov wants the floor.]] Come in the manner of conduct, but before that, are there any lines? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please note Mr. Bayraktarov's statement, in which he has repeatedly mentioned and accused several colleagues almost of plagiarism. Mr. Bajraktarov, not all MPs have as high opportunities as you do, but you...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u233	Do you recognize yourself in these accusations, colleagues, since he didn't point to anyone? [[Reply from MP Philip Popov to the President.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u234	Not all colleagues have high speaking abilities. Just because a colleague has prepared himself in writing on a certain item on the agenda, on a certain item in the Bill, it does not mean that there is no withdrawal of foreign thoughts, as you have expressed yourself here several times. Therefore, I ask you, Mr President, to pay attention when such accusations are being brought against our fellow Members of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u235	They were unattractive. You are welcome for a personal explanation, as opposed to the fact that you addressed your statement to him to the National Representative Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take the floor for a personal explanation. Dear Mr. Popov, can you tell me who I blamed and who you recognized? And you're putting in here some actions and omissions that I haven't accomplished. So learn to be correct, because today you have made incorrect statements on various issues, but as you can see... [[Reply from MP Philip Popov.]] Subjective judgements can be kept when you are lawyering somewhere and not here in the National Assembly. It's not about twisting things and making things up and putting some kind of guilt in my case, because you're naming me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u237	No, the charge was on me, but I listened carefully and there was no mention of it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u238	Of course! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u239	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, as this is one of the topics that is being found in several subsequent texts, I would like to make a statement in a correct manner. No one takes any money with these texts. Full freedom and opportunity are given to every Bulgarian citizen to decide where to accumulate or where to provide for a pension. All arguments in defence of private companies that manage personal accounts, which, in my opinion, have reason, are already for then, so as to convince people that it makes sense there to maintain their funds. Currently, these arguments on the Patriotic Front and the BSP in defence of private companies are appropriate after giving the right to choose and talking about where it is better for people to actually hold their funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u241	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. First, we vote on the proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support; the proposal by Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs, which is identical, as well as the proposal by Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs. All these proposals are not supported by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 17 against 64, abstention 30. The proposals of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs, as well as Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs have not been accepted. They're identical. We are voting on the proposal of MP Radan Kanev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 103 MPs: 19 against 35, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer for § 3, which is supported by the Commission and has found a place in its report. They voted 99 MPs: 84, against 8, abstention 7. The text of the importer for § 3 in the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u242	Under § 4, there is a proposal from Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of Parliament to drop out, which is not supported by the Commission. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u243	Statements? I won't. I vote on Mrs Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 107 MPs: 10, against 63, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 4 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 108 MPs: 97 against 7, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u244	The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 1 and 2
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u245	Statements? Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u246	These are technical transfers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u247	Explain it to Mr. Gokov, not me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u248	I'll explain it to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u249	I'm out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u250	You've given up. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 5 in the version of the report. Vote 97 MPs: 88 against 8, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u251	Under § 5 there is a proposal from Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in § 5: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 point (b) is amended as follows: (c) point 4 is repealed. 2. point 2 is amended as follows: "2." In para. 3 is created t. 10: ..10. for the persons referred to in art. 4c, para. 1 which have opted to change their insurance from a professional pension fund in the Fund of Pensions. The increased contribution to the Fund of Pensions is the amount of the contribution under art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 1, t. The following points are inserted after point 2 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs: In § 5 t. 2 to be amended as follows: ,2. In para. 3 is created t. 10: ..10. for the persons referred to in art. 4c, para. 1 which have opted to change their insurance from a professional pension fund in the Fund, the increased contribution to the Fund is the amount of the contribution under art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 1, t. 2. ............................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 5 becomes § 1 and is amended as follows: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the following 1. In para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: (a) t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." for the Fund for the persons born before 1 January 1960: (aa) 19,8 per cent and for workers under the conditions of I or II category of work and for the persons referred to in art. 69a "22.8 per cent; (bb) 42,8 per cent for the persons referred to in art. 69; (b) t. 2 is amended as follows: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 2. for the Fund of Pensions for persons born after 31 December 1959: (aa) 14.8 per cent and for workers under the conditions of I or II category of work and for the persons referred to in art. 69 a.m., 17.8 a.m.; (bb) 37,8 per cent for the persons referred to in art. 69; c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 3. for the persons referred to in art. 127, para. 5 The contribution to the Fund of Pensions under point (a) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 shall be calculated as follows: 2 is increased by 5 percentage points; (d) c. 4 is amended as follows: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 4. for the Fund of Pensions" for persons provided by the order of art. 4b: (a) 19,8 per cent and for workers under the conditions of I or II category of work and for the persons referred to in art. 69a "22.8 per cent; (b) 42,8 per cent for the persons referred to in art. 69; (e) c. 6 the words "one in a hundred" shall be replaced by "two in a hundred." 2. Al. 2 is amended as follows: The income on which contributions are due shall include all remuneration, including accrued and unpaid or unpaid and other employee benefits. The State Social Security Budget Act defines: 1. the minimum monthly amount of the insurance income in the calendar year for self-insuring persons determined according to their taxable income for the activity as self-insuring person; 2. the main economic activities and the qualification groups of professions for which a minimum monthly amount of the insurance income is introduced for the calendar year by activity and occupation groups, as well as the minimum insurance income for them. 3. A new para is being created. 3: The maximum monthly amount of the insurance income for the calendar year concerned shall be equal to the tenfold amount of the minimum monthly salary fixed by the Council of Ministers for the same year. 4. Al. 3 becomes para. 4 making the following amendments: (a) t. 8 is amended as follows: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 8. from 1 January 2011, the contribution to the Pension Fund for persons born before 1 January 1960, as well as to the persons referred to in art. 127, para. 5, working on employment relationships, shall be distributed as follows: (aa) 8,7 per cent on the account of the insured person, and for the self-insuring person - 19,8 per cent; (bb) 11.1 per cent on the account of the insurer and when the person works under the conditions of I and II category of work and for the persons referred to in art. 69a "14.1" per cent; (b) t. 9 is amended as follows: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 9. as of 1 January 2011, the contribution to the Fund shall be allocated to persons born after 31 December 1959 as follows: (aa) 6.5 per cent at the expense of the insured person, and for the self-insuring person (bb) 8.3 per cent on the account of the insurer and when the person works under the conditions of I and II category of work and for the persons referred to in art. 69a "11.3 per cent." 5. Alinei 4.. 15 becomes 5.. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 5, which becomes § 6, with the agreement that they will be renumbered by the Final Texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u252	Statements? Mr. Gokov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u253	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! I'll try not to take from Mr. Bayraktarov's intellectual property and quote his thoughts. Our proposals are mainly under art. 6, where insurance contributions and social security income are settled. Many numbers read the Chairman of the Committee on Labour and Social Policy on our proposals, but there are actually several things behind them that are the philosophy of the revenue side of our proposal. In other words, where will the money come from for our other proposals, which represent the cost of the system. It is clear that in the whole vision of the managing accompanying actions to stabilise the pension system there is no. Here are clearly the issues with poor functioning of the Bulgarian labour market, with low economic activity, low employment, high unemployment. There are no views to reduce the level of this unemployment, to increase the level of income of workers. Yes, to increase the incomes we have explained how low the productivity of labor in Bulgaria is. It is better to explain why, in the European Union, an average of 48 euros out of every 100 gross domestic product goes for compensation for employees, or otherwise, mainly for wage. In Bulgaria this ratio is 40 to 100. This, in turn, will increase the number of workers who pay insurance. At the same time, it will increase the amount of these benefits. It will have a direct impact on the revenue side of the state social security budget. And our proposals: first of all, we propose raising the threshold of maximum insurance income. This threshold is tied to the minimum wage. We offer to be equal to 10 minimum wages. Another thing is that this threshold of maximum social security income should be written as a text from the Social Security Code and not be a reference to the powers of the Council of Ministers and be determined annually by the State Social Security Budget Act, according to the whims of the government. That is, it is motivated and accepted in the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, the minimum wage, and the maximum social security income is automatically increased. Once there are conditions for increasing the minimum wage, there is no reason for there to be no conditions for increasing the maximum social security income. There's a lot of motive for that, but I'm only gonna mention two. Firstly, the predictability of funds in the general government budget will be more real in this way. Secondly, high income individuals will be interested in receiving corresponding higher retirement pensions. Yet another argument.. our pension system is solidarity and people with higher incomes should pay higher insurance. The second part of our proposal includes an increase from 1 per cent to 2 per cent of the contributions to the Fund. Motives all you want. I'll only say one. The minimum unemployment benefit is BGN 7.20. a day and it has not been raised from 5 to 6 years, and the Fund is in deficit. Finally, an increase in the contribution to the Fund "Pensions" by 2 percent as of 1 January 2016. It was intended to raise insurance contributions by 4.5%, albeit for 12 years. For the past ten years, we've reduced them by 14 times 15%, and now in 12 years we're going to increase them by 4.5. Even this will not happen because one of the compromises you made under the pressure of employers' organizations is that this increase is only 2%, and we have to admit that there is a deep distortion in the structure of government social security revenues and the Bulgarian pension system is converted from insurance to tax-funded. From 32% in 2000, today the amount of the social contribution is 17.8. Increasing social security contributions is one of the factors that can contribute to increasing income in the pension system. And here the proceeds are one of the few reasonable proposals.............................................................................................................................................................. By the way, this is a neoliberal mark of the Bulgarian pension system. Work should be done in the direction of getting out of real wages and paying insurance on them, not on minimum insurance thresholds, which in most cases are unreal and are the result of bargaining between social partners. I'm not talking about reaching insurance levels like those in Europe. I will quote a few examples: Lithuania - 26,35%, of which 23.85 at the expense of the employer; Czech Republic - 28%, of which 21,5 at the expense of the employer; Hungary - 33,5%, of which 24 at the expense of the employer. All countries of our rug. However, we can proceed to a reasonable, reasoned and consensus for our society a smooth increase that will guarantee revenue in the DVO budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u254	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. You don't have time for the rest of us...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u255	These proposals will lead to about 900 million more in the IPO budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u256	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal, which is c. 2 is identical with the proposal of Mr. Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs. We vote on the proposal of Mr. Bajraktarov and a group of MPs and Mr. Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support these proposals. They voted 107 MPs: 12, against 55, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mrs Cornelia Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 103 MPs: 15 against 52, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission proposal, which supports the text of the importer for § 5. They voted 102 MPs: 88, against 11, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u257	According to § 6 there is a proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of Parliament from § 6 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Milena Damyanova, Svetlana Angelova and Galya Zaharieva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 6, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 5 after the words "Pensions" Fund shall be comma and shall be added "Pensions for the persons under art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: In the case of an insurance service in retirement, the time during which care has been taken for persons with permanently reduced working capacity/type and a degree of disability over 90 per cent who are constantly in need of foreign assistance, their spouse, parent (parent) or one of the parents of the mother or father of the disabled person shall be respected. Insurance service shall be respected provided that at that time the persons have not been insured or received no pension. In the case of retirement for the period to be respected for insurance service, insurance contributions shall be paid to the amount of the Fund for the pension on the minimum wage at the date of the granting of a pension at the expense of the State budget. 3. Allinei 8, 9 and 10 are cancelled.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u258	Statements? I won't. I vote on Mrs Cornelia Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 103 MPs: 13, against 66, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 7 on the Commission report and in its version. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u259	According to § 7, there is a proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of Parliament to be The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u260	Statements? I won't. We are voting on Mrs Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 100 MPs: 14 against 59, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 7, which becomes relevant on the report after its new renumbering. Vote 92 MPs: 79 against 9, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u261	Under § 8 there is a proposal from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u262	Statements? I won't. We are voting on Mrs Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 100 MPs: 13 against 57 abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 8. Vote 96 MPs: 88, against 6, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u263	Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21 the following amendments shall be made: 1. point 4 is amended as follows: "4." transfers from the state budget provided for in the State Social Security Budget Act for the year concerned; 2. Point 5 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u264	Statements? I won't. We are voting a new § 10 on the report for changes in art. 21. Voted 103 MPs: 90 against 5, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Under § 9, there is a proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of Parliament § 9 to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 11. Under § 10, there is once again a proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of Parliament to dismiss the paragraph. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u265	Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u266	Madam President, honourable Members! With a view to the vote on the previous § 10 and the annulment of paragraph 10. 5, as the legal basis is dismissed, I propose that we take into account editorially and drop the point. 2 of art. 22a of § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u267	"Transfer from the state budget of 12 per cent on the sum of the insurance income of the persons under art. 69 for the year in which it is used?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u268	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u269	You're suggesting a t. Two down?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u270	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u271	- What's the line? Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote Mrs. Angelova's proposal in § 9 by importer, art. 22a, t. 2 "Transfer from the state budget of 12 per cent on the sum of the insurance income of the persons under art. 69 for the year to be used as a text and the others to be renumbered accordingly. We vote. Vote 96 MPs: 85 against 6, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We are now voting § 9 by importer without that. 2, points 3 and 4 become 2 and 3 respectively. 90 MPs voted: 83, against 5, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on the proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs for the removal of § 9 and § 10 by importer. We voted editorially changed § 9 but for purity in the stenogram we voted Mrs. Ninova's proposal and group. The Commission does not support the proposals for the removal of § 9 and 10 by importer. Vote 95 MPs: 17 against 60, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 10. Vote 96 MPs: 84 against 6, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u272	Under § 11, there is a proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of Parliament § 11 to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 13. Under § 12, there is a proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of Parliament § 12 to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u273	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Ms. Ninova's proposals and a group of MPs for dropping paragraphs 11 and 12 by importer. They voted 89 MPs: 12, against 57, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on paragraphs 11 and 12 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 80 against 8, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u274	There is a proposal to create a new paragraph by the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33, para. 2 words for a period of 6 years shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u275	Come in for a statement, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u276	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Members of the National Assembly! The aim of this proposal is to remove the six-year term of office of the heads of territorial units of the National Insurance Institute. And importers motivate him with the need to synchronize the legislation, the Social Security Code, the Civil Service Act. Logical and good motives, but is it? Remember 2010 when again from GERB Party with changes to the Social Security Code you introduced the mandate from 1 January 2011. The reasons were once again noble, only I will remind you what happened then. Then you had all the directors of the territorial units of the NSI appear in competitions and appoint them to the post for a term of six years. I mean, you've cleared your accounts with the uncomfortable executives and don't tell me that's not true, because I'm going to give you an example. The head of the Stara Zagora territorial unit of the NSI was then Peter Mrtskov, former member of the BSP in the 40th National Assembly, Vice-President of the Labour and Social Policy Committee, restored to his post after his term of office was terminated in 2009. Six months before a pension was impudently removed from office because he allowed practically to think differently from you and not to pay him the salaries due in retirement. Even though he'd given his life to the NOI, his entire service is there. And this isn't the only case. But if I start listing all the cases, it's gonna be a very long list. I don't know how these people deserve this attitude every few years to change their status. You imposed some rules in 2011. Changing them every few years is not an acceptable option for me. These people didn't pass a single term, gentlemen of the House. And now again from GERB, you are proposing again, you are changing again, you will still be cleaning up accounts, but these are most of your people, who you have appointed in their seats with the mandate! At first glance, it makes sense, but there is no wonder there is a new clientele, there are many faithful people waiting for comfortable places. That's a shame! Withdraw him. And you, fellow Members of the National Assembly, who are about to vote on this proposal, think about it, when legislation is made, you must walk consistently, not in a conjunctual way, or in public terms, as we have been rescued. Think about what fellow importers are doing and vote against their proposal! The other is insecurities and clientelism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u277	Any other MPs? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote a new § 15 on the Commission report. Vote 88 MPs: 80 against 8, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u278	Under § 13, 14 and 15, there is a proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly to drop respectively. The Commission does not support the proposal in all three texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u279	Are there any speeches, colleagues? I won't. We are voting on Mrs Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs for dropping paragraphs 13, 14 and 15 by importer. They voted 91 MPs: 8 against 65, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. Anblock, we vote paragraphs 13, 14 and 15 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 81 against 7, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u280	According to § 16 there is a proposal from the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 16 is amended and acquired the following version: Article 68 is amended as follows: "Acquiring a pension right Art. 68. (1) The right to retirement and retirement pension shall be acquired at the age of 60 by women and 63 by men and 34 years of retirement for women and 37 years for men. (2) In the event that persons are not entitled to a pension under para. 1 by 31 December 2015, they shall be entitled to a pension at the age of 65 for women and men and not less than 15 years of actual insurance service. From 31 December 2015, age shall be increased from the first day of each subsequent calendar year by 4 months until 67 years. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Maya Manolova and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in § 16: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 68 is created a new para. 1: ,(1) Women are entitled to a pension three years earlier than men and in three years lower insurance service. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: suppl. 16 becomes § 2 and is amended as follows: ..................................................... Art. 68 is amended as Art. 68 (1) The right to retirement and retirement pension shall be acquired at the age of 60 years and 8 months for women and 63 years and 8 months for men and 35 years for women and 38 years for men. (2) In the event that persons are not entitled to a pension under para. 1, they shall be entitled to a pension at the age of 65 years and 8 months for women and men and not less than 15 years of effective insurance service. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u281	Mr. Bayraktarov was the fastest, then Mr. Philip Popov, Mrs. Maya Manolova, Mr. Gokov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u282	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to say immediately that the Patriotic Front will definitely not support the text of the importer, which aims to increase the retirement age and also increase the retirement insurance service. Why are we not going to support this text, and why are we proposing that the retirement age remain 60 years for women and 63 years for men, as well as 34 years for women and 37 years for men, respectively? My fellow Members, as I have already told you, the European Commission has made a recommendation to reduce expenditure in the NSI. Mr. Minister, you have taken a measure that has, in fact, proven to create corruption in recent years. If you and your team had done your job, as well as the MPs, first read the last three reports and the report of the NSI and do one analysis, you would see that by 31 December 2014 Bulgaria is paying 906 thousand wheelchair pensions. Of these, 516 thousand are paid directly from the budget and 390 thousand from the NSI. Why is this thing working? In terms of percentage, this means that each year the number of disability pensions increases between 35 and 43%. This percentage is particularly indicative in 2013 when it reaches 45% in certain periods. This happens because a huge part of the Bulgarian population, as not once or twice we have commented in the Commission, at one point they realize that they have no chance of retiring, because the insurance service cannot reach them.. They have huge white spots during the years of transition, and the only way to get a pension is to enter a corrupt service by somehow providing them with a decision from TELK to enable them to retire as people with disabilities. This has led to an increase in age and an increase in the insurance service, which is indisputable and very prominently described in the NSI accounts. Among other things, dear Minister, you have one commitment only a few days ago here you firmly stated that you will follow a policy that will deal with the demographic collapse. I ask you: how and in what way will we stimulate the Bulgarian woman to give birth to children, provided that she has to make 37 years of internship and at the same time give birth to children? For example, in Sofia a young family is almost doomed if they have to give their child to nursery or kindergarten. The option to be able to work this young family, not to stay home and look after its child is to give your child in a private kindergarten where the fees are between 550 and 900 BGN. In a word, someone should work only for the fee in the private nursery or private kindergarten. This is an anti-measure that does not in any way solve the problem of increasing the age and internship, on the contrary, it deepens this problem. Here were pronounced absolutely all the specialists in this area, naturally giving a very precise definition that this measure of yours will have a short-term effect, especially from the point of view that the two percent that had to go to private pension funds will go to the NSI. That's where this short-term effect will come from. In other words, with this proposal you are simply damaging the Bulgarian citizens and denying them the opportunity to retire. Moreover, if we accept today, colleagues, this decision of the Council of Ministers, this means tens, hundreds of thousands, millions of Bulgarian citizens to turn them only into donors of the system and to feed certain marginal beings who have learned to parasite on this system. That's what's gonna happen. The system must have confidence... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Madam President. The system must have confidence, and this trust is not achieved with those, I would say, absolutely traditional measures, cliché measures that do not lead to solving the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u283	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u284	Thank you, Madam President. I was going to make a line for Mr. Bayraktarov, but I absolutely agree with him, so there's no way I can make a line for him. This proposal to increase age and internship for retirement and ultimately reach 65 years of age and 40 years of internship for men and almost as much for women will have at least two major negative effects. The first is a lack of incentive for workers and those who provide themselves not only under a contract of employment to be provided in our pension system at all, because they, in simple terms, will not live to a pension. Here is already stimulated the grey economy because every citizen will prefer this difference between what is actually received and what is declared as insurance to take it here and now so that it can last the month. In addition, the current and future generations of one of their laws are deprived of their own. After almost all their lives have paid the state's contributions, eventually, when they reach an age where they are no longer able, the state will take care of them. And this is absolutely not protected by this bill. On the contrary, the citizens are deprived of this fundamental, sovereign, constitutional right. The pensions would increase. Of course, Mr. Minister, they will increase because there will be virtually no pensioners. It's one thing to pay a pension to five people, it's another to pay two people. Of course, this way, when they die...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u285	Come on, get serious!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u286	That's right, mate. I'm very serious. On this subject we are very serious because this is practically available here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u287	How many people have you given a job to? Are you an employer?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u288	In fact, here we are going to a natural selection of the healthier ones, if there are any with this health reform, they will survive to a pension. For the rest, it remains only the obligation to pay almost life insurance, and so until the Minister realizes, in my opinion, that there is no pension reform in this way, because in the end the state abdicates its citizens with these proposals. That's the main thing. Thank you. I cannot in any way support this genocide against Bulgarian citizens, both current and future generations.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u289	We're listening, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u290	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Popov, I do not agree with you at all that pensions will increase. Moreover, if you follow closely just three paragraphs ago what the National Assembly adopted, you will be infinitely disappointed. The social security code states that the State is an insurance provider and that its obligation as an insurance provider it carried out in the form of a transfer equal to 12% and was regulated in art. 21, t. 5. Just a few paragraphs ago. 21, t. Five has been canceled. In other words, Mr. Minister, with the cancellation of art. 21, t. 5 The NSI deficit is already 2 billion and 700 million above, as the insurance provider, called a state, is simply missing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u291	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u292	That's right, Mr. Ademov. Don't replicate me. If you want, you can stand up and speak. The difference between subsidy and transfer is very big. And now I have to tell you that in the State Social Security Budget, which was adopted by the National Assembly, a transfer of 12% is recorded. We're canceling that transfer right now. Let me ask you, when are you going to make a budget adjustment for the D.O.A.? That's what this is about. In other words, we already have an additional 2 billion deficit. 700 million, and it's out of the question to raise pensions. If you want me to sit down, I'll calculate it for you here in a hurry at Prima Vista to see how the pension is even reduced. And it's really slowing down. So this delusion that there will be an increase in pensions is another matter. And the fact that they're taking us back to Bismarck's model, which is made on another model, and it's that you can never get to a pension, that's another question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u293	Second line? Mr. Popov's hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u294	You are absolutely right, colleague Bajraktarov, only I quoted Mr. Minister here who said that pensions would increase. And here we actually see the mechanism by which pensions would eventually increase and how it actually came about this mechanism that you explained, and ultimately there will be no increase in pension even at this high internship and retirement age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u295	Mr. Gokov to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u296	Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We will by no means accept the increase in retirement age and the increase in the internship proposed by Minister Kalfin and the government. Firstly, because this proposal is neither economically nor socially, nor demographicly, nor morally justified. It's like squeezing out the last of the remaining powers of some people who have worked and worked honestly, expecting integrity from the state, but, alas, they won't get it. Secondly, because the system is being stabilized at the expense of the rights of the insured. Your proposals are subject only to fiscal stability, not to the adequacy of benefits and pensions. Thirdly, because an increase in retirement age without regard to the low average life expectancy in the country is cynicism. Fourth, because the increase in the pensionable internship for the third category of work of women 37 years and 40 for men is also cynical and condemns the working Bulgarians to the inability to retire. Fifth, because in your proposal there is a very exotic and unacceptable proposal made with para. 4 of art. 68 After reaching the age of 65 for men and women an automatic mechanism for increasing retirement age will be introduced, compared to changes in life expectancy. That is, 65 years is not the ultimate goal of increasing the retirement age. Sixth, because the only goal you are pursuing and will achieve is to have more workers who work longer and, respectively, longer pay insurance, and at the same time less pensioners who receive pensions in shorter time. This is a pure neoliberal approach, and there is no way that we, as a left-wing party, can approve or support it. Seventhly, as the retirement age increases, you will reduce the number of pensioners and pensions paid, but youth unemployment will increase, and this will increase youth emigration. It can be argued that late retirement partly eases the pressure on the pension system, but, on the other hand, it retains longer jobs that would otherwise naturally be released for subsequent generations. Young people won't be able to make an internship, and that will turn them into future users of the social system, not the pension. Eighth, because you didn't spare people who, in one way or another, couldn't get the retirement experience they needed, and you're going to make sure that the so-called social pension gets people only if they're 67 years old and up. I say you didn't spare her because thousands of Bulgarians reach the age required for retirement, but do not have the required internship. There are many reasons for this, but I won't mention them. That is why we propose stopping the growth of retirement age. This meets the expectations of the Bulgarians and instead of asking them about everything in the referendums for e-voting, mandatory voting and the like...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u297	What does this have to do with the text discussed?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u298	You better ask them if they want to increase their age and their retirement internship. What do you think? What would be the answer? I think it's gonna be a no-brainer with 99% support. The right vote in this case is to support our proposal, to reject the proposal supported by the Commission to increase the retirement age. This is the only way we will meet the expectations of the people, the Bulgarians. Thank you for your attention. [[(Loud noise, shouts, applause to the right, shouting:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u299	- What's the line? For a line, Mr. Popov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u300	Thank you. Dear colleague Gokov, you did not mention two things in your speech. [[Loud noise and lines on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u301	Well, there's two more on the record from your group, Mr. Popov, let's keep something for them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u302	My reply is to my colleague Gyokov and I would like him to answer two questions: in which Member State of the European Union, the average life expectancy is lowest? In which Member State, because the two things are related, in the European Union, the standard of living is lowest? These questions perhaps you should have asked them to Mr. Minister to answer if they were taken into account when calculating age and retirement insurance, according to the Bulgarian law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u303	Second line, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u304	Mr. Gokov, this is really the highlight of the amendments to the Bill, but I, by accepting your arguments, have questions that are open. Yes, we will not support these changes, but do you think how to cancel them and replace them after a year with what is bearable and expected by Bulgarian citizens? Because here we are offered what is called "reforms," what will happen by 2030, and how from 2037 the prosperity will grow so that it will automatically increase this retirement age without even being called the upper limit. It won't be 65, it won't be 67. So we are not going to support them, but we need to get out of this model of calculating years of service and age and offer a model that simultaneously stimulates people to work and still enables them to receive a pension, taking into account everything that happens in the last few years. 20-25 This is the big question, not just to say that we will not accept it, but when we will cancel it and how we will change it so that we can achieve what is necessary. Because we also find something else that you need to take into account that there is always some party that claims to be left to make the most extreme right reforms, and that is precisely in the social area. That's the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u305	Third line please, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u306	Thank you, Madam President. I see that some of the BSP colleagues are asking questions to their colleague and to diversify a little question, and I ask a question to Mr. Gokov in the form of a reply: in which European country does one working approximately provide one pensioner? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u307	A hole, Mr. Gokov. [[(Applause, calls:]] Colleagues, I'm asking for more serious treatment! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u308	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! [[Loud noise, lines, laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u309	We're listening, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u310	Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I don't know why there's this fun here when we're talking about absolutely serious things that...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u311	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u312	I don't know when you get out of this room how you're gonna explain to people when you meet them in the polls, how you raise them to the age of 65, so they can't live to a pension. How do you explain to them that you want 40 years of internship so they can't retire? I saved you the bills I could have made you here because at 65, in order to have 40 years of internship, you have to start at 25 and not one day have been in the gray economy and not have been unemployed. I do not think that there should be such a serious attitude on this issue, and on the most important issue of what you call a pension reform, because your pension reform is expressed only in this: in raising age and internship. There is no accompanying action in your vision on how to reduce unemployment, how to raise the incomes of these people who pay higher insurance to be able to have more income. You do not accept anything we offer you that will improve the revenue of the state social security budget. What kind of arrangement is this, Mr. Minister, that you made with the employers? We should have increased their insurance by 2% from 1 January 2017 anyway, and you have made an alleged compromise, and now we will increase them by 1% from 2017, one from 2018. What happened to your original intention of 4.5% increase in these contributions? [[Noise and lines.]] Or it'll just be the workers who can't retire in any way. I can answer Philip Popov: yes, Bulgaria along with Latvia and Lithuania are with some of the lowest last long... [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u313	Don't you guys talk to each other in the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u314	I've been asked a question, Mr. Ivanov, and I'll answer it from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u315	Oops, now a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u316	So, there is the lowest duration of her age, Mr. Minister, I said that neither... [[Heckling]] I told the Minister that it was neither economically, socially, morally, nor demographicly, nor in any way this upliftment of 65 years. There is just an order from the European Union to reach 65 years for men and women, note So there's nothing to explain further. [[Noise, lines and calls from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u317	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Procedure? [[Noise and lines.]] Ms. Karayancheva's procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] Are you giving up the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u318	No, first of all, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u319	And you're making a difference between the two of you?! Oh, yeah?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u320	Please, Mr. Chairman, please follow the rules. Do not allow the honourable Minister or any minister to give lines to the speakers, because we heard in the duplicate that he was responding to the minister, which meant to me that he was speaking lines. Please follow the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u321	Here you are, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u322	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Chairman! We've heard enough arguments, and I don't think we need to read any more sheets. Let everyone vote on their consciences, so I suggest we call off the debate. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u323	A reverse opinion? Mr. Popov, back position.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u324	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There were two recordings for speeches. It is unacceptable in this way in a really important subject with shouting and shouting from the House to end a real debate concerning every Bulgarian citizen and future generations. It is unacceptable, so I am making a reverse proposal. Give my colleagues the opportunity to speak. It's an important topic. Everyone has something to say. It's good for the coworkers to hear them at last... [[Heckling]] No, not to hear them and understand what they're saying, because there's a big difference between the two. And then let's end this debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u325	That will be decided by the Members by voting from the House. I put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Tsveta Karayancheva to end the debate. They voted 121 MPs: 98 against 19, abstention 4. The motion to end the debate has been adopted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 119 MPs: 14 against 65 abstentions 40. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u326	Mr. Chairman, some of my colleagues have failed to vote. That's why I want a re-vote. In addition,...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u327	This is a necessary and sufficient condition. Revoting procedure. Revoting! [[The National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov continues to speak with microphones off.]] They voted 121 MPs: 14 against 72, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u328	Where are you, BSP left Bulgaria, the social party?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u329	I put to the vote the proposal of MP Maya Manolova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 123 MPs: 12, against 71, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. [[Radio, noise in the hall.]] Quiet, please! I am waiting for my fellow Members to calm down. Obviously, the emotion about this vote is too serious. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs - the Commission has not supported it. They voted 122 MPs: 12, against 68, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u330	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Chairman, my procedure is the way it is. Would you ask the Quaestors to invite the most social parties in parliament when the fates of the Bulgarian citizens are decided after years? From BSP and from Ataka to enter the Chamber and vote in favour of Bulgarian citizens! [[Applause from GERB.]] By the BSP 9 people, by the And protect the interests of the socially weak, the pensioners! Aren't you ashamed to leave these things in the hands of right-wing capitalists?! Enter the hall! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u331	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Please, the Quaestors, invite all MPs to enter the Chamber. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 16, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 127 MPs: 97, against 20, abstention 10. The text of the importer for § 16 has been accepted. Mrs. Cornelia Nino, the negative vote. Mrs. Ninova, you have the floor for a negative vote. [[Reply from the National Representative Maya Manolova. Resurrection, noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u332	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! You didn't give me the floor, so I'm using the negative vote procedure. Of course, I will not repeat the arguments made by my fellow Members. I would like to add one more, however, and in response to the colleague who spoke last and urged the left to enter the Chamber. Colleagues, to the greatest extent the pension reform requires a national attitude, not a left, not a right, but a state-owned, non-partisan attitude. This is my additional argument why I do not support this text, and it is to Mr. Kalfin. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, perhaps 10 years and older there is a talk about pension reform in Bulgaria. Various political parties in various majorities have participated in this conversation, and we have all agreed that in order for a change to be sustainable, it must be achieved in public and political agreement. In order for things to happen by 2037, as you see them here, means that the next majorities, governments and society must agree with what you have proposed to follow it until 2037! You have not reached a public and political consensus on this subject, and therefore you have a guarantee that what you are proposing today will not happen until 2037 because these majorities will change. And I guarantee you that the next one will cancel this decision and propose something else. Mr. Tsonev, one question has remained unanswered by you. You ask: where in Europe does a worker provide a pensioner? We have made several budgets of Bulgaria and compared them to European budgets. I answer you with a question: in which European budget is unemployment at stake for three years ahead and there is no ambition to find at least one new job? Only in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u333	IN SYRIZA!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u334	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u335	Proposal by the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: s 17 becomes § 3 and is amended as follows: .................................................. Article 3 is replaced supplier pension and reduced age Art. 68a. (1) Persons who are not entitled to a pension under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 may retire provided that their underage and/or internship are less than 24 months than those laid down in art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and (2) When granting a pension under para. 1 persons may not enjoy the right under art. 9a, para. 2. (3) The persons to whom pension under para. 1 shall not be eligible for pension under Art. 1. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u336	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u337	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of Parliament! With this proposal, the importers are trying to do something interesting, something that, in the general background of unjustified and insane increase in age and internship, gives a sip of hope to the Bulgarian, which is at the end of its work path. That is to say, to be given the possibility of a retirement pension for an internship and a reduced age due to a one-year underage. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] But here, like everything else, inadequate and halfway approach. I said it in the previous speech, I will repeat it now: thousands of Bulgarians reach the age required for retirement, however high it may be, but they do not have the required internship. The problem with the Bulgarian retirement isn't as old as internship. This requires a more flexible, more social approach, namely a retirement pension for insurance service and age of reduced size, but for underage and insurance service. In this spirit is our proposal - an opportunity to grant a retirement pension for an internship and a reduced age, flexible retirement for people of pre-retirement age who do not reach up to 24 months of age and/or internship - their pension is reduced by 0.4 per cent per month of underage or internship. Thus, it is possible for people left without work and without the right to unemployment benefits to retire early instead of looking for options to receive other social payments, such as disability pensions or social benefits. The number of these people in pre-retirement age in difficulty in accessing the pension system and the adverse processes in the labour market is significant and there is no alternative for them. Believe me, because I know that these people, along with the youngsters who start their careers, are one of the most vulnerable groups and are most affected by unemployment. If they're out of work, they're hard to find a new one, not wanted by the employers, but they're at the end of the line of work. It is therefore necessary, through such an adequate and flexible form of early retirement, to give them the opportunity to start their pension earlier and lead a normal way of life. Support our offer. Purely financially, it would not lead to an additional deficit in the budget of the National Insurance Institute in the long term, but, on the other hand, complements and develops the importer's proposal. With this huge increase in retirement age, let's make together a small gesture to the people. It is not scary when you hear the proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs from BSP left Bulgaria, not supported by the Commission, to press the green button. Come on, try it! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u338	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u339	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I was going to make a brief statement on the preceding text, and I would have done so if the discussions had not been cancelled. I would like to highlight a few things that are important because there have been a lot of delusions, lies and frank ignorance of legislation here. First, the age 65 years for retirement was established by the current Social Security Code in 1999. Since then, the Bulgarian Socialist Party has managed at least twice. I don't know to cancel that age. [[Strong noise, lines and applause from GERB.]] Moreover, the Social Security Code requires this age to grow by six months a year. I don't know anyone has canceled this text by now, it's freezing. Moreover, what we are proposing is much smoother than what is currently written in the Social Security Code. Next thing you know, we did it for the European Union. No, all the countries in the European Union that are in our situation are taking similar steps and it is not by accident that the European Commission offers it to us. In 2014, the European Commission complained that Bulgaria had failed to fulfil its commitments made in 2013 for a change in the pension system. This year I note to you that for the first time in the recommendations in several years this issue has disappeared. Another argument. Mrs. Ninova just accused me of not consulting this text and that it will be canceled immediately. What are you going to cancel right now? The increase of one month to the age of men by 2029 will that be canceled, or two months to women? Cancel it! The text is now in operation by six months. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] I didn't consult. The only two groups that did not want consultations, despite my repeated calls, including from this tribune, were the groups of the BSP and of the Ataka. I can't force myself to come and consult with you. I'm sorry! Obviously, there was no desire to hold a dialogue on the pension system of the BSP group, and that's where an accusation is somehow not normal. I'll be forgiven by my right-wing colleagues, a few sentences just because they're giving me lectures about what the left-hand side wanted and what left-wing Europe does, who's left-wing, who's right-wing. A report by the European Parliament adopted 2011. A reporter is my colleague, the Romanian Labour Minister, currently acting President of the Romanian Social Democratic Party. It's about equalizing age between men and women: Point 70........................................................................................................... Co-reporter of this report is Mrs Gabriele Zimmer, who is the leader of the leftmost political group in the European Parliament, more left than the Social Democrats. Next quote: Manifest of the Party of European Socialists, again we talk about equalizing age between men and women and here were also one of the great calls: It's the second one he's defending. Point 5 "To ensure the increase of women's rights and gender equality is one of our most important priorities. We need to close the gap between the pensions of men and women. [[Strong noise, lines and applause from GERB.]] Last quote. [[Reply from BSP LB.]] Yeah, I've learned that because I follow similar policies and I'm interested in them. Last quote: The 2014 Initiative of the Party of European Socialists: Point 3. The PES requires the European Union to include in its strategy specific funds for increasing the age of women over 55 years, which can work. No one is talking about the retirement of women at 55 years of age, but funds to bring them back to the labour market and increase their age - that is what European Socialists say. I'm going to go a little to the left and I'm going to read you a quote related to this: The equalization of the retirement age of both sexes is not just a global trend, but also a logical option. A decision of the National Congress of the Communist Party of China. [[Applause from GERB.]] Currently, the difference between men and women's pensions is 40%. In 2015 the average pension for women is 271 BGN and for men is 380 BGN. For 2014 for the newly retiring this difference is reduced slightly to 30%. I don't know who protects gender equality and left-wing ideas. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u340	Personal explanation Mrs. Nino.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u341	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, although Deputy Prime Minister, you are in a parliamentary republic where the executive does not come here to challenge the MPs and call them liars. [[strong noise and lines in GERB]] And vice versa, MPs control executive power. If I get into your vocabulary, I don't want to, but I'm gonna have to go in. You just lied with a few things. Firstly, we participated in the working group formed by you in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy through Mr. Gokov and took part in all the meetings and discussions of the pension reform. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] You said BSP didn't want to participate. First lie!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u342	It was about parliament and parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u343	Not just that. Specific texts and concrete proposals in both the working group and the Commission! First this. Secondly, if we do not accept your proposal and remain the current text, it is invented by Mr. Simeon Dyankov and is voted by part of this majority one night here at 12:00. [[Loud noise and shouting in GERB.]] So do not blame the left for the management 2005 - 2009 after this was voted by Simeon Djankov and GERB in 2013! What did the BSP do after that when you ruled for a year? And not just BSP. [[Loud noise and lines in GERB.]] Mrs. Tsacheva, can you ensure that the Rules of Procedure are in place in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u344	Colleagues, I ask for a higher threshold of tolerance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u345	During this year, in which he ruled the government with the BSP, we froze these texts with one goal to achieve this agreement, which I told you about, that it is necessary for the political and public to become the real change in pension reform. Here is Mr. Ademov, who was a minister in this government and who made the best efforts to reach this agreement. [[The President said that the time had run out.]] You came, you ended any normal dialogue with society and with political parties. The result is this one! [[Strong noise in GERB.]] Therefore, I guarantee you that the next majority will change it! [[Private applause from BSP LB, loud noise in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u346	Colleagues, back to the debate on § 17. Are there any speeches? I won't. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Bajraktarov and a group of MPs to drop § 17. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 116 MPs: 23, against 72, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on Mrs. Nino's proposal and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 117 MPs: 17 against 72, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission proposal in favour of § 17 by importer. They voted 115 MPs: 105 against 1, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u347	Under § 18, there is a proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly to drop § 18. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Velizar Enchev: Paragraph 18 shall make the following amendments: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 69 para. 1 is amended as follows: at the end of the subparagraph is added the expression under the Law on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Hristo Gazhev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 18, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 69 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "leaving from service regardless of their age" shall be replaced by the age of 52 years and 10 months and shall be added and shall be added as reserves of active service under the Law on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. Alinei 2 and 3 are amended as follows: The State Employees under the Ministry of Interior Act, the Special Intelligence Means Act and the Law on the Execution of Punishment and Detention, the civil servants under art. 11 of the Postal Services Act, civil servants carrying out the activities of security of the judiciary under art. 391 of the Law on the Judiciary, investigators and junior investigators acquire pension rights in the age of 52 years and 10 months and in the 27 years of general insurance service, of which two thirds actually served as civil servants under those laws, under the Law on the State Agency of National Security and as soldiers under the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria or as investigators and junior investigators. (3) State employees under the Law of the State Agency of National Security shall be entitled to a pension at the age of 52 years and 10 months and at the age of 27 years of general insurance service, of which two thirds are actually served under the Law of the State Agency of National Security, of military service or of the laws of para. 2. 3. In para. 4 the words "fire," regardless of their age, are replaced by " 42 years of age and 10 months of age." 4. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: The employees of the General Directorate of Fire Safety and Population Protection of the Ministry of Interior, carrying out some of the activities under art. 17, para. 2, p. 6 of the Act on the Ministry of Interior, acquire the right to a pension in the age of 52 years and 10 months and in the 27 years of general insurance service, of which two thirds actually served in the civil protection system. 5. In para. 7 the words "recession of employment, regardless of age' shall be replaced by "the age of 42 years and 10 months'. 6. They're creating an al. 9 and 10: As of 31 December 2016 for the persons referred to in para. 1-7 shall be increased from the first day of each subsequent calendar year by 2 months until the age of 55 for the persons under para. 1, 2, 3 and 6 and up to the age of 45 for the persons under para. 4 and 7. (10) Right to pension under the conditions of para. 1-9 also have persons who have performed military or government service under the laws of para. 1-3, persons who have been in the posts under para. 4 and 7 and the employees who carried out the activities under para. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u348	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u349	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Kalfin, fellow Members of the National Assembly! The proposal is to introduce an age for retirement of employees in the sectors of Defence and Security. Dear MPs, in no way do we accept the increase in retirement age proposed by Mr. Kalfin and the government to refer to those working in the power structures. We are also opposed to making their access to the pension system more complicated. The proposed age is initially 52 years and 10 months, but will grow to 55 years. I would remind you that the last two amendments to the requirements for minimum insurance service in the retirement of employees in the sector were not introduced smoothly, but jumped. We are now introducing age to them, provided that such a requirement does not exist in many other European countries. This whole mechanical alignment of the requirements for acquiring the right to pension from employees in the sector of security to those for categorical workers raises doubts because it is not motivated. It is clear that these employees are a special group and therefore so far the legislation has not assigned them to the practitioners of any category of work and has separated the conditions for their retirement into a special text of the Code. This is clearly not called into question in the present Bill, as far as no changes are envisaged in this sense to art. 69. I miss the analysis on whose base the proposed age is formed, if, of course, there is such an analysis at all. Early retirement of employees in power offices in itself is not a problem. Without being preciseed the scope, the conditions for early retirement are inadequate to the expectations of people working in these sectors and offices. No comprehensive solution has been found to the problem of paying pensions for the period of early retirement. Hardworking officers and firefighters and all those whose lives are at risk in the performance of their duties must not only be early retired but also continuously improved working conditions. With regard to costs,.. has significant reserves for optimization, without necessarily sacrificing the most vulnerable again. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a practice since you introduced the practice of competition and career growth, as the Spanish police work, did you know that at the Spanish Ministry of Interior at the time of entering the work of an employee of the system he knows careerally how his development is going. Currently in Bulgaria, there is no such regulation in the Ministry of Interior. We're at the risk that the policemen we see on the street, the uniformed police officers, will have to retire at the age of 55 tomorrow. How will those who are in the Security Police respond to these physical training requirements, or will we release them? Mr. Kalfin, you, as colleagues with Minister Bachvarova and Deputy Prime Minister, do you talk about these issues and how it will help this particular process for the regulation, the work of the employees of the Ministry of Interior? At least some idea of showing up in the proposed bill. It is clear that Minister Bachvarova has not spoken to the employees of the Ministry of Interior for 50 days. He doesn't want to hear their problems! In the end, I'll try to reason in purely psychological terms. It seems to me that this constant tension of the people of the sector, by constantly proposing changes in type and parameters for retirement, will only lead to an increase in uncertainty among employees in the sector. There is no way not to reduce their motivation to critical levels and to a real danger of failure in the system. The results of this can be extremely dangerous to our entire society. That is why we are against this proposal and we are about to drop it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u350	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u351	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My reply is in the direction that in recent years, the expectations are the pension system, the insurance system in any way, if possible, to reform the Ministry of Interior, to reform the Ministry of Defence and all related to the so-called There is no way for the insurance system to deal with this issue unless all these systems individually do everything to reform themselves. Moreover, over the last more than 25 years, the insurance system has been sacrificed so that all other systems can be reformed. That is why we have come to the situation where in 2014 the real retirement age of all new pensions is 57 years and 6 months. Note, however, for a third category, the average effective retirement age is 62 years and 9 months, with an average of 62 years for the European Union. That is, if we are only talking about a third category, we have long been aligned with our European partners, with European countries. However, when we include early retirement, including for the security sector, then the average retirement age drops sharply and this is one of the big problems. The money given by the state budget for additional funding of the social security system increases the dependence of state social security on the state budget, as these nearly BGN 5 billion, which the state budget transfers to the budget of state social security each year, can be provided to other sectoral policies: education, health care, not to list everyone else. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The last thing I am graduating with, Madam President, in 2014, the average retirement age at the Ministry of Interior is 50 years; the real age at which they retired is 52 years and 8 months. The current proposal of the Ministry is to increase by only two months.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u352	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u353	Honourable Members, Madam President! Dear Mr. Ademov, understand, and from the statements he has from the regular staff, they are not against, including working after this age. However, the texts are not precise and can be refined in terms of those who are burdened with work that requires exactly the earlier retirement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u354	That's what the Ministry of Interior should do.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u355	I agree that the Ministry of Interior should do it. So I asked Mr. Kalfin how they work with their colleague, Deputy Prime Minister Rumyana Bachvarova? It is now 52 years and 10 months with a tendency in the following years to become 55 years. And it was no accident that I paid attention to the police officers who from the Security Police are taking care of public order, how do you imagine that after just a few years they continue to work up to 55 years on the street? I have set an example of what is happening in Spain, honourable Members. There the real uniformed officer, after no longer responding to the physical training needed to perform his duties, is moved to his retirement, where his capacity is used at the same time and at the same time he has the opportunity to reach this retirement age. Mr. Kalfin, how did you reflect with these changes what is asked of the security personnel? I don't see that being reflected. The fact is that Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova does not talk to the employees of the Ministry of Interior. We all know that. That's why I've taken the attitude and spoken. Our decision is not to support this text because it is not precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u356	It is not correct in the absence of a Minister and Deputy Prime Minister to comment on whether or not he is speaking, Mr. Yankov. I think you'll agree with me. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Switching to vote. I put to the vote Mrs Cornelia Ninova's proposal to drop § 18 which the Commission does not support. They voted 91 MPs: for 7, against 62, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Velizar Enchev. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 92 MPs: 9 against 65, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 21 on the Commission report. They voted 93 MPs: 86, against 5, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u357	Under § 19 there is a proposal from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u358	Statements? I won't. We are voting on Mrs Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 93 MPs: 5 against 65, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 19 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: 82, against 5, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u359	Under § 20, there is a proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly to drop § 20. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in paragraph 20: 1. In art.69 c, para.Z, the words..... 2....................................................................................................... Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 2. A new article shall be created. 69d with the following content: "Acquiring the right to a pension from seafarers Art. 69 C.E. (1) Marine persons shall be entitled to a pension when they are 60 years of age and 15 years of internship acquired in working by sea as seafarers. (2) The previous paragraph shall not apply to the persons referred to in Article 2, item 2. 2 of Convention 71 on the pensions of seafarers of 1946. The general rules for the acquisition of pension under art. 68. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Yanaki Stoilov and Georgi Gokov: In the created new article. 69c is created para. 3a: The persons who have acquired the right to a pension under the conditions of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 and 2, retirement pensions shall be paid for internship and age from the Fund of Pensions and an addition from the teacher's pension fund in the amount of 0,33 per cent of the calculation according to art. 70 amount of pension only for the period of teaching experience for each month for which there is a contribution to the fund. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the National Representative Hasan Ademov, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 20, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 69b and 69c: "Acquiring the right to a pension from persons working under the conditions of first and second categories of work Art. 69b. (1) Persons who have worked for 10 years under the conditions of first category of work may retire if they have not acquired the right to pension under art. 168 or when they have changed their insurance under art. 4c and are: 1. over the age of 31 December 2015 47 years and 8 months for women and 52 years and 8 months for men and have a sum of life insurance and age 94 for women and 100 for men; 2. from 31 December 2015 the age of t. 1 shall be increased from the first day of each subsequent calendar year by 2 months for men and 4 months for women until the age of 55. (2) Persons who have worked for 15 years under the conditions of second category of work may retire if they have not acquired the right to pension under art. 168 or when they have changed their insurance under art. 4c and are: 1. over the age of 31 December 2015 52 years and 8 months for women and 57 years and 8 months for men and have a sum of life insurance and age 94 for women and 100 for men; 2. from 31 December 2015 the age of t. 1 shall be increased from the first day of each subsequent calendar year by 2 months for men and 4 months for women until the age of 60. (3) The persons who, until 31 December 2015, have 10 years of insurance service, submitted under the conditions of art. No. 104, para. 3 may retire before the age of art. 68, provided that they have a sum of age and internship 90 and 52 years of age for men and 47 years of age for women. From 31 December 2015, age shall be increased from the first day of each calendar year by 2 months until 55 years of age for men and women. (4) If the contract of employment of the persons working under the conditions of art. No. 104, para. 3 shall be terminated on the basis of Article 3. 328, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 of the Labour Code, they may retire until 31 December 2015 including, not earlier than the age of 45 and if they have a sum of internships and 90 and 10 years of internship under the conditions of art. No. 104, para. 3. From 31 December 2015, age shall be increased from the first day of each calendar year by 2 months to the age of 50 for men and women. (5) If the person has exercised the right to a pension under para. 4, it may not enter into a work contract under the conditions of the first category of work until its age under para. 1 or under art. 168, para. 1, t. 1. (6) For assessment of the right to pension under para. 2 The first category of work insurance service complements the second category of work insurance service without conversion. (7) When the persons under para. 1, 2, 3 and 4 who have not obtained a pension under art. 168, they are asked to be granted a pension from state social security, at the same time as the pension application, they also submit an application requesting that the funds of their individual account in the occupational pension fund be transferred to the Pension Fund to the State Social Security Fund. The application for transfer shall be submitted by means of a territorial branch of the National Insurance Institute to the pension insurance company concerned, the pension fund manager, at the same time as the application for public insurance pension. Within 7 days of the grant of the pension, the territorial division of the National Insurance Institute shall forward the application to the pension insurance company. (8) In the cases under para. 7 The pension insurance company shall transfer the funds to the Fund of Pensions to the State Social Security within one month of receipt of the application. Where the individual account has no accumulated funds, the pension insurance company shall notify the National Insurance Institute. Acquirement of a pension from teachers Art. 69c. (1) Teachers shall be entitled to a retirement pension for internship and age at the age of 57 years and 10 months by women and 60 years and 10 months by men and teachers 25 years and 8 months for women and 30 years and 8 months for men. From 31 December 2016, age shall be increased from the first day of each subsequent calendar year as follows: 1. by 31 December 2029 the age for women shall be increased by 2 months for each calendar year and from 1 January 2030. for each calendar year until the age of 62; 2. by 31 December 2017 the age for men shall be increased by 2 months for each calendar year and from 1 January 2018. For each calendar year up to the age of 62, the number shall be 1 month. (2) On the persons referred to in para. 1 a term pension for early retirement from the Teacher's Pension Fund shall be paid in an amount determined in accordance with art. 70 and reduced by 0.1 per cent for each month, the lack of the person until his age for acquiring a pension under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1. (3) Teachers who have acquired the right to a pension under the conditions of para. 1 and retire under the conditions of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 and 2, retirement pensions shall be paid for internship and age from the Fund of Pensions and an addition from the Teacher's Pension Fund of 0,33 per cent of the pension for each month for which there is an insurance contribution to the Fund after the acquisition of the right to pension under para. 1. (4) The teachers who have the requirements under para. 1 teacher's internship and retire after the age of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 shall be paid a full pension from the Teacher's Pension Fund until the age of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3. After age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, (5) The persons who hold teaching positions and respect for the insurance service for teachers within the meaning of this Code shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in art. 106. ".................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u360	Statements? Mr. Yanaki Stoilov was first, Mr. Bayraktarov after him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u361	Madam President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal that we have made with Mr. Gokov concerns the persons who have worked as teachers and the opportunities for them to receive the allowance for pensions for the time of their service. This proposal has been initiated by people who work as teachers, and we have sought this wording, which we believe is fully in line with the rules of pension insurance. The difference with the importer's proposal, the Commission is that we do not only deal with those who have worked only and almost continuously as teachers. There are hundreds and perhaps thousands of citizens who during a certain period during their work experience have exercised the teaching profession............................................ the teaching profession......................................... At that time, contributions were made to the Master's Pension Fund. This fund has two tasks. One is to ensure that early retirement in this case we do not care about this, and the other task is for those who have acquired the right to a pension under the conditions of a third category of service and age, to receive a certain pension allowance of around 0,3 per cent per month for which there is such a contribution. We think we need to expand the scope of these faces because the contrary would mean that we stick to some feudal-fortification foundation and we say that if you only worked as a teacher and retired as a teacher, you have the right to use funds from this fund. What is the logic, since the contributions have been withheld under the same rules and the persons have obtained, under general conditions, the right to a pension for this number of years, their pension also not to increase in proportion as is provided for others? I don't think there's any argument. Besides, I'm gonna give you extra motive. There are certain specialties such as informatics, foreign languages, and other ones that are lacking in teachers, and they must be sought from these specialties and directed to the educational system perhaps not for a very long time, but for some period. In addition, one of the incentives for the exercise of the teaching profession would be that people who have started their service or during some period have decided to go through the teaching profession and have devoted themselves to it, too, to have an additional incentive. I think this has a much greater role to play than a number of provisions in the school education bill. It is a real instrument which simultaneously increases the social status of the teaching profession and at the same time meets the principle of the solidarity pension system that the one who has contributed for some insurance must then receive a proportion of the funds envisaged. In my opinion, there is no reason to reject this proposal, and it should even be actively defended by the teachers' unions, by all those who adhere to those rules. I appeal to you to support this proposal, and I think it highlights the provisions contained in art. 69c relating to the pension rights of these people. I say again, for whom you may not have been a teacher when you retire or are a teacher when you retire, but you have not started your work as a teacher as well as combining different types of requirements for different categories of work. Here it is even about the same category of work, but about the exercise of a different profession. That's the motive. If anyone had doubts or objections, we would have heard them so that we could understand the motives and why such a proposal, which is expected by many, has not found support in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u362	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Bayraktarov has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u363	Thank you, Madam President. I take the floor as we of the Patriotic Front have made a proposal to create a new art. 69 C.E. And since, my dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have allowed yourself through some media to accuse us of populism, the Patriotic Front and the Reformation Bloc colleagues, I hope you don't accuse us of populism and the Supreme Administrative Court today. Dear colleagues, our motives are in response to Decision No 8413-17.8.July 2015 of the Supreme Administrative Court. What does that decision say? I'll read to you briefly. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2, para. 1 of the Convention of the International Labour Organisation and this is Convention 71, it is provided that each Member State of the International Labour Organisation for which this Convention is in force must introduce or ensure the introduction, in accordance with national law, of a pension regime for seafarers who withdraw from a maritime service. For your information, Convention 71 of the International Labour Organisation was ratified in 1949 by the Grand National Assembly of Bulgaria. What, though, does the court say in its decision? In the current Bulgarian legislation there is no special pension regime for sailors. There is neither a specific regulation which applies only to the pensions of seafarers nor a norm according to which a specific preferential retirement regime is applicable to seafarers. Moreover, the legislator on your proposal, Mr Minister, made amendments to § 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Code of Social Security, which paragraph created a regime practically impossible even by the Lord. You have created three types of conditions under which, as the court has pronounced, they must be cumulatively implemented. First, to have a corresponding insurance internship under first or second category of work as a maritime person. Second of all, you have a certain age. And notice, thirdly, what makes all this inapplicable and unfulfilled is to have a common set of points for men of age and insurance internship a hundred. And, as the court ruled, it is impossible to execute. That is why the International Labour Organisation has adopted Convention 71. That is why we offer and create a text that actually corresponds to our, first, partnership relations with the International Labour Organisation. Secondly, the implementation of Convention No 71, which, you notice, has not been found since 1949 by the National Assembly to introduce the implementation of this Convention for Bulgarian sailors. [[Reply from rapporteur Hassan Ademov.]] Since 1949. The Convention was adopted in 1946 and 1949 was ratified by the Grand National Assembly. Mr. Ademov, don't apostrophe me if you don't, read and learn. [[Noise and lines. Awesome.]] What we propose is nothing but the execution of the judgment, which is final. I read you fragments of this decision. Colleagues, I call on you, when some come out here and speak about Euro-Atlantic values, about our partnership with the relevant European organisations, let us be correct and really implement Convention No 71 of the International Labour Organisation, because it is imperative. It is, first, in a spirit of correctness, which we have committed since 1949, and today it is 2015 and it is shameful that the Bulgarian Supreme Administrative Court by its decisions to tell us that there has been no political power and will to implement compliance with this Convention. It is even more embarrassing when you look to the left and see that from the social partners, or the so-called social party (BSP) left Bulgaria has only five representatives, which is shameful [[noise and lines]] There's zero of the attack. When considering such an important bill, it is shameful that parties claiming to be socially oriented are not in the Chamber. It's a shame! Thank you for your attention. Now, if you want, you can stand up and replicate me. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u364	- What's the line? I won't. [[Reply by MP Dora Yankova.]] Dora Yankova, please come in. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please, let's follow the rules. Mrs. Dora Yankova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u365	Dear Madam President, Mr Vice-President of the Council of Ministers! I take the floor on the proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, including myself, to motivate the proposal why we believe only part of § 20 should be dropped, Yanaki Stoilov motivates in terms of teachers' pensions. In particular, I shall refer to art. 69b, § 4 and § 5. This is where the retirement relationship of the underprivileged workers is being settled, and this affects very many people from my constituency, and not just from it. I know that Mr. Kalfin and a lot of people will say that we had a Trilateral Council, the unions agreed, and then at the Commission we went from 4 months to 50, we reached an increase of 2 months. I will share my considerations and, in parallel, my surprise for the change in para. 5. Honourable Members, I ask you to take note of this and take responsibility with your vote. Underground workers have actually retired so far in a collection of insurance and age 90, 10 years of insurance and 45 years of age. What does that mean? This means that under conditions of hard work, under poor conditions of work, these people have the opportunity for their work they have done to receive an earlier pension. After that, we heard the Prime Minister's announcement, including the trade unions who looked down on the miners. I'll tell you that they really looked down on them because I was in a meeting in Madan with a large group of miners, more than 200 people. At this meeting, at every moment when the major mining unions of the power plants shared what they had agreed, they received a male howl. Subsequently, I know that indeed the Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers, he is a minister, Mr Kalfin, in Smolyan meets with the leaders of the trade unions and somehow calms them down. However, the truth is, colleagues, that the working conditions in the mines are severe. The truth is that employers and concessionaires do not change anything, that the natural resource is used under extremely difficult working conditions. And now, in order to make the exception, the Council of Ministers says, "We will allow to work after the retirement of this group, but not underground." Now we see that the ban regime in para. 1 is made in respect of all who work first category. I listened very carefully to the Prime Minister, saying: "He will retire earlier as a miner and has no right to work. Maybe another job, but not a miner, say, a driver, a host or something. Why wouldn't he do that? Therefore, honourable Members, I call on you not to support § 4. We will later motivate him to do so. 38, in the Transitional and Final Provisions, or at least if you have the will to make such a change, as the Commission has proposed, by even two months, to postpone it by at least three years. I'll tell you why. At the moment there will be an extremely large vacuum for finding miners, because this is the perspective. Currently, mining schools offer and create people who want to work in mines, but people who want to have a decent pay. I claim without any concern that the mining work is currently being paid by 500, 600 BGN. We could have made another regulation, and so far, what have they been doing? They pointed out the NOI by taking an earlier retirement, an earlier pension, working under the miners and giving 600 - 700 lv. [[the President signals that time has run out]] , and one big delusion that the miners receive £1,200. This does not currently decide retirement for mining work, this does not change the conditions and this is discriminatory.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u366	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. I gave you a signal that time was up. - What's the line? I won't. The debate is closed, we're going to vote. I put to the vote Mrs Cornelia Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs to drop § 20. They voted 103 MPs: 8 against 68, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Bajraktarov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 100 MPs: 23, against 40, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Yanaki Stoilov and Georgi Gokov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 105 MPs: 26, against 48, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission proposal for § 23. They voted 101 MPs: for 83, against 7, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, for a negative vote. [[Voices: "Eeeee!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u367	Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of Parliament! I take the negative vote procedure once again to stress that, as we are against any increase in age in general, we are also against increasing age for categorical workers. That's where the exit for the categorical workers is... Mr. Ademov explains how they reduce the average age in Bulgaria for retirement and significantly down...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u368	Not me, statistics!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u369	Yeah, statistic shows it. But that shouldn't be the only argument that makes us raise that age. I take the negative vote to say a few words that we from BSP left Bulgaria give you arguments and we quote facts, you treat them disparagingly, you neglect them, you ignore them. You don't even listen to what the speakers in the stands say. Somehow inappropriate is the constant introduction of Mr. Bajraktarov and the people of the Patriotic Front about how the people of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria were missing. How are these people here who give you arguments, you don't listen to them and they as figures to fill in the quorum of the National Assembly, what to do? So please spare yourself these constant reminders, because...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u370	Mr. Gokov, you have taken the floor to explain the negative vote. Is that why you voted negative?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u371	It's part of my explanation of the negative vote. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u372	Thank you, too. We're listening, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u373	Proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs: Paragraph 21 shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. point 5 is amended as follows: ..... 5................................................................ A new para is being created. 7 containing the following: For periods during which persons are provided in a universal pension fund, their individual coefficient shall be reduced on the basis of the ratio between the amount of their contribution to a universal pension fund and the sum of the contribution to the pension fund for persons born before 1 January 1960. and transfer under art. 21, t. 5 in a row determined by an act of the Council of Ministers. 2. Point six, drop out. 3. Point 7 becomes t. 6 and amended as follows: It's six. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8..................................................... 4. New t. is being created. 7 and 8: "7." So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 9 and in it the words by para. The following points are inserted after point 7 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: ) (a.k.a. the 8. Previously on AMC's... 9 and 10 become respectively. 10 and 11; 5. Point 8 becomes t. 9 and amended as follows: ............................................... The created new para. 13 to be reported. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs: Paragraph 21 shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. Paragraph 5 shall be amended as follows: ,5. A new para is being created. 7. ,(7) For periods during which persons are provided in a universal pension fund, their individual coefficient shall be reduced on the basis of the ratio between the amount of their contribution to a universal pension fund and the sum of the contribution to the pension fund for persons born before 1 January 1960 and the transfer under art. 21, t. 5 in a row determined by an act of the Council of Ministers. 2. Paragraph 6 shall be deleted; 3. Point 7 to become t. 6 and to be amended as follows: ,6. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8..................................................... 4. To create new t. 7 and 8: ,7. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 9 and in it the words by para. The following shall be replaced by the following: the following points are inserted after point 8 (Commission Regulation (EU) No 231/2014): 8. Previously on AMC's... 9 and 10 become respectively. 10 and 11 ,9. The creation of para. 12: ,,(12) The amount of pension under art. 68a is reduced by 0.4 per cent for each insufficient month until the person of his age under art. 68, ) (a.k.a. OJ L 268, The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: Paragraph 21 becomes § 4 and is amended as follows: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 70 the following 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The amount of the pension for internship and age shall be determined as follows: 1. The amount of the retirement pension shall be determined by multiplying the income from which the pension is calculated by the amount formed by: percentage 1.1 per cent and from 1 January 2016. For each year, an insurance service and the corresponding proportion of the percentage for the months of insurance service shall be taken into account. 2. The amount of the pension for insurance service and age under art. 68a is defined in the order of t. 1, such as for each underage and/or insurance internship under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 reduction is 0.4 per cent. 3. If the persons have acquired the right to pension under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 and continue to work after the date of acquisition of the right, without being granted a pension, for one year of insurance service, after that date the rate shall be 4, for two years of insurance service by 4,5; for and for more than three years by 5 and the corresponding proportion of those percentages for the months of insurance service. The percentage for each year of insurance service after the date of acquisition of the law under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 is defined as an actual calendar service without the conversion acquired after 31 December 2006 2. Paragraph 8 is amended as follows: The amount of the pension for internship and age under art. 68, ) (a.k.a. 2 shall not be less than 85 per cent of the minimum size by para. 7 and under art. 68a may not be less than 90 per cent of the minimum size by para. 7. 3. In para. 10 words defined by the State Social Security Budget Act and commas before and after them are deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Hasan Ademov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 21, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 70 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) the first sentence is amended as follows: the sum of the retirement pension and age shall be determined by multiplying the income from which the pension is calculated by the amount formed by: percentage 1.1 per cent for each year of the insurance service and the corresponding proportion of the percentage for the months of the insurance service. (b) New sentences shall be created second and third: "After 31 December 2016 the rate for each year of insurance service shall be increased by the first number of each subsequent calendar year by a percentage equal to or greater than the percentage of art. 100, para. One, to reach 1.5. The percentage shall be determined annually by the State Social Security Budget Act for the year concerned. c) Previous sentences second and third become corresponding sentence fourth and fifth. 2. In para. A sentence 2 is created: "For pensions granted with a starting date after 31 December 2018, the individual coefficient shall be calculated from the insurance income of the person for his insurance service after 31 December 1996 until the date of granting the pension.' 3. In para. 4 t. The second sentence is created: "From 1 January 2019'. The ratio between the monthly social security income of the person and the average social security income of the country for the same month. 4. In para. A sentence 2 is created: "From 1 January 2019 the individual coefficient is defined as an average ratio of the monthly ratios under para. 4 t. 2nd sentence, 2nd sentence. 5. A new para is being created. 7. For the periods during which persons are provided in a universal pension fund, their individual coefficient shall be reduced on the basis of the ratio between the amounts of the insurance contributions for a universal pension fund and the Fund for a third category of work for persons born before 1 January 1960, by order determined by an act of the Council of Ministers. 6. A new para is being created. 8. The individual coefficient shall not be reduced for the periods for which the accumulated funds on the individual account of persons in a universal pension fund have been transferred to the State Fund to ensure the sustainability of the state pension system. 7. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 9. 8. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 10 and in it the words by para. The following points are inserted after point 7 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: ) (a.k.a. 9. Previously on AMC's... 9 and 10 become respectively. 11 and 12. 10. They're creating an al. 13 and 14: The amount of the pension under art. 68a is reduced by 0.4 per cent for each insufficient month until the person of his age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1. (14) Persons may request recalculation of the pension from the insurance income for another three-year period before 1 January 1997 within 12 months of the entry into force of the pension award order.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u374	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u375	Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of Parliament! Article 70 is perhaps the most interesting text of the Social Security Code from the point of view of the people, because it regulates the amount of pension and proposals to change this article are of serious interest. I will not reveal any secret that the incomes of the Bulgarians are miserable and it is imperative to bring them into some elementary compliance with the minimums for survival, but this is another topic. Why am I mentioning it? Because here importers are trying to suggest to people that with their proposals they somehow improve the adequacy of pensions. From 1 January 2019 the individual coefficient for calculating the amount of the pension under art. 70 will be defined as the arithmetic mean of the monthly individual coefficients. Strange why since 1 January 2019? From 1 January 2019 to the formula for determining the amount of pension in the calculation of the individual coefficient of art. 70 drops the income of the person on whom insurance contributions have been paid for the period of three years, optionally before 1997. Why from 1 January 2019? Perhaps because the current rulers will no longer rule. From 1 January 2017 will begin gradually, but very gradually, increasing the burden of one year of insurance service in calculating the amount of pensions. Why since 2017, it is still unclear! I remain with serious concerns that the government, who claim to reform the pension system, consciously neglect a problem facing the Bulgarian society. These are the high levels of poverty and inequality in Bulgaria, as well as unfairly low incomes from work, and hence the low levels of pensions. I remember that with these measures Minister Kalfin promised 40% growth in pensions by 2025. Maybe because then no one will remember today's promises. If we're even impartially dealing with bills, what does that mean for 10 years, 40%, in one year, 4%? It's not very adequate, and it's not very promising. I'd even say it's not serious. You ask yourself how in 2025, when we will already be in the Eurozone perhaps, the average pension in Bulgaria thanks to today's reform will have grown to the great 224 euros per month, which will provide the Bulgarian pensioner with an enviable existence in a Member State of the European Union, 7 euros per day, and only for the average pension. And for the minimum pension, the minimum pension is EUR 107 or EUR 3.45 per day. Our proposal, which has no claim for a long-term resolution of pension adequacy issues in substance, is a proposal to recalculate old and new pensions and a new way of calculating new pensions from here on.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In the Transitional and Final Regulations, we have proposed this to happen for the current pensions as well, not just for the future. In our preliminary calculations, this would actually lead to an increase in pensions by about 10 percent. We said where the money could come from and although you rejected at this stage our proposals to increase the maximum social security income and to increase the insurance by 2 percent, you can safely vote for this proposal, because when adopting the State Social Security Budget for 2016 can fix things with revenue. So calmly support the proposal, because otherwise I will speak with full right and we will all talk that in clear proposals where the money can come from, you of the majority reject without thinking mechanically about the proposal to increase pensions by 10% from 1 January 2016. The other part of the proposal provides for us if the persons have acquired the right to pension under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 and continue to work after the date of acquisition of the right without being granted a pension, for one year of service after that date to receive a significant bonus of up to 5% for each additional year of insurance service. With this, we aim to encourage the stay on the labour market for a longer period of time for people with high qualifications who have acquired the right to a retirement pension for internship and age. I ask you to look into our proposal and not reject it mechanically, because I feel that if, as a joke from GERB, the Reformation Block is offered to dissolve, for example, all of you will mechanically vote on it without paying attention to the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u376	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs for a statement? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Bajraktarov and a group of MPs, the Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 84 MPs: 12, against 34, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the proposal by Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs, the Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 99 MPs: 12, against 68, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on Mrs Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs, the Commission does not support it. They voted 99 MPs: 14 against 62, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 24 in the version of the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 82, against 10, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u377	Under § 22, there is a proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly to dismiss § 22. The Commission does not support the proposal. There are identical proposals from the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs and from the National Representative Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs: In § 22 t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." In para. 4 t. 1.. 3 words.................................................................................... 70, para. The following points are inserted after Article 7 (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013: 70, para. The The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u378	Statements? I won't. We are voting on Mrs Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs, the Commission does not support it. They voted 98 MPs: 12, against 60, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the two identical proposals of Mr. Bajraktarov and a group of MPs and Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support them. 100 MPs voted: 20, against 44, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. We vote § 22 by importer, supported by the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: 84, against 10, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u379	Under § 23, there is a proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly to dismiss § 23. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs, identical to that of the National Assembly. 2, differs only in t. 3 with Mr. Kovachev's proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 23: point 2 is amended as follows: "2." So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 et c. 1.. 3 words.................................................................................... 70, para. The following points are inserted after Article 7 (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013: 70, para. The following points are inserted after point 8 (Commission The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs, identically in this section. 1 and 2, differing in t. 3: ,,3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23 which shall become § 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u380	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal of Mrs Ninova and a group of MPs for the dismissal of § 23. The Commission does not support it. They voted 102 MPs: 13, against 72, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal to amend the item. 2, which is identical in this part with the proposal of Mr. Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs. We vote. They voted 104 MPs: 19 against 33, abstention 52. The proposal is not accepted and cannot therefore be supported. 2 to create a new t. 3 as it refers only to the displacement of the numbering of the paragraphs. I shall put to the vote § 23 by importer supported by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 91, against 6, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u381	Under § 24, there is a proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly to dismiss § 24. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs and an identical proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 24 is amended as follows: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 81, para. 2 words under art. 70, para. The following points are inserted after Article 7 (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013: 70, para. The following The Commission does not support the proposal of the two Members of Parliament. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u382	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Mrs. Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 109 MPs: 11 against 79, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the identical proposals of Mr. Bajraktarov and a group of MPs and Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs not supported by the Commission. We vote. Vote 109 MPs: 19 against 75 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. We vote § 24 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 109 MPs: 93 against 9, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u383	Proposal by the National Representative Velizar Enchev for the creation of a new § 24a: ..24a. A new article shall be created. 84a. Add-on to the pension for paid bachelor tax Art. 84a (1) The missionaries who have not entered into a civil marriage shall, for each year, receive an additional monthly supplement to their pension in the following amounts: 1. for paid bachelor tax up to 15 years receive a monthly supplement of 0.6 per cent of their pension for each year; 2. for paid bachelor tax over 15 years receive a monthly supplement of 1.1 per cent of their pension for each year. (2) The provision of para.1 shall apply to single pensioners who have not been married and who are over 65 years old. (3) The supplement under para.1 shall be at the expense of the state budget and shall be paid through the National Insurance Institute in accordance with the order for payment of pensions. Article 84a shall enter into force as from 1 January 2015 The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u384	Statements? Mr. Enchev, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u385	Madam President, honourable Members! At the end of last year, when Budget 2015 was adopted, I made this proposal to compensate, to repay the people who paid bachelor tax and were repressed with it. Then you rejected the proposal. That is the bad news. The good news was that it was supported by many BSP MPs and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Now I am making a new proposal by making a correction in order to ease the state budget. Then, at the end of last year for the payment of bachelor tax up to 15 years, I proposed to be 1.1. Now, however, I propose that whoever has paid a bachelor tax for up to 15 years should be repaid by 0.6% of the pension for each year, and for the payment of a bachelor tax for more than 15 years to receive a monthly supplement of 1.1% of the pension for each year, which, firstly, is fairer, and, secondly, is more sparing of the state budget. I expect that all of you will be empathetic to the fate of these Bulgarian citizens who were, as I said, economically repressed and unduly damaged by the state, as this bachelor tax was paid depending on the age of 5, 10, 15% of the gross monthly remuneration. The tax was paid to the state budget. These are funds that have been used many times by the state! It is normal, fair to give compensation to these pensioners in the form of an addition to their monthly pension. I'd like to make a comparison so you can see the accuracy of my proposal. As the state did with private deposits of citizens in the private CCB, so should it do with forced private deposits taken in the form of bachelor tax and imported into the state budget. In the first case only a year ago the state compensated private deposits in a private bank, but with money from the state budget. In the second case I plead, the state will compensate, if you vote, the forced private deposits imported into the state budget from the state budget itself, which, I think, will restore justice. That's why I'm asking you to vote. Here I will show my colleagues from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms letters that I have received from their members and sympathizers from the mixed areas. [[shows them]] Razgradsko, let's not say the names of the villages so there are no problems. These are about 120 signatures and letters asking you to support the proposal for the bachelor tax. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u386	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Enchev's proposal, which the Commission does not support. They voted 102 MPs: 21, against 66, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u387	Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 5: .................................................................................. In Article The pension shall be paid to the European Parliament by the European Parliament, the Council, the Council and the European Parliament. 68a shall be issued from the date of submission of the application. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u388	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 21, against 67, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u389	Proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs: A new paragraph 24a shall be created with the following content: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 95, para. 1 is created a new t. 5 with the following content: It's five o'clock. where the pensioner does not comply with the regulations of the authorities of the workability expertise in relation to the contraindicated working conditions. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u390	Mr. Bayraktarov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u391	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just want to say a few words. This text was also supported by the NSI, because until now there is no text to control the disability pensions granted. Moreover, there was a misunderstanding in the Commission? Some of the colleagues did not understand what it was about. That is why I appeal to colleagues, especially from GERB, to support this text, because they also realized that it is good. By the way, it is very difficult to create such a text because there are a number of conventions that need to be respected. So, fellow Members, support the text so that we can exercise control over disability pensions. 906,000 disability pensions we pay, which is really awful!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u392	Give us a chance to vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u393	I am giving you the opportunity to support this text. It was also supported by Mr. Ademov at the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u394	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Are there any other statements? I won't. Dear colleagues, please vote on the proposal made by the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs. They voted 106 MPs: 94 against 8, abstention 4. [[Private applause from GERB.]] The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u395	Under § 25, there is a proposal from the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 25 to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 25 to be amended as follows: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 102 is ,(6) When recalculating the pensions under art. The amount of their reduction under Art. 68a. 70, para. 12 does not change. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 25 becomes § 6, as the content of the created para. 6 is amended as follows: In the case of the transfer of pensions under art. 68a in the order of para. The amount of the reduction determined in accordance with Art. 1? 3 and 5 shall be equal to the amount of the reduction determined in accordance with art. 70, para. 1, t. 2, does not change. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 28.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u396	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 106 MPs: 18, Against 55, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 100 MPs: 15 against 65, 20 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 100 MPs: 11 against 71, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for § 25, which is supported by the Commission and acquires the corresponding numbering in its report. We are voting on the text of the importer supported by the Commission. Vote 109 MPs: 92 against 12, abstention 5. The text of the importer for § 25 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u397	Proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs: " § 25a is created with the following content: It's 25a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 104, para. 10 shall be completed and acquired as follows: The category of work, as well as the activity under art. Art. 69, Art. Art. 69a. 69 years cannot be proved by testimony. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u398	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 106 MPs: 18, against 53, abstentioned 35. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u399	Under § 26, there is a proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 124 the following amendments are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words "al." point 4 is inserted and the text to the end is deleted. 2. Allinea 3 is canceled. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs: In § 26 to be created t. 3: "3." ) (a.k.a. 3 is canceled. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u400	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly - the Commission does not support it. They voted 103 MPs: 19 against 66, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. Please vote. They voted 85 MPs: 13 against 49, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. A proposal from the MP Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. Please vote. They voted 101 MPs: for 5, against 73, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. And now I am voting on the text of the importer for § 26, which is supported by the Commission and finds the relevant place in its report. We are voting on the Commission text, that is, the text of the importer supported by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 85, against 12, abstention 2. The text of the importer for § 26 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u401	Under § 27, there is a proposal from the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u402	It's withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u403	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The Commission does not support the proposal. The proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs and the proposal by the National Representative Georgi Kovachev is identical. These proposals are not supported by the Commission. Proposal by the National Representative Radan Kanev and a group of MPs: The following amendment shall be made in Paragraph 27: 124a, para. 1 the words "five years" shall be replaced by "one year." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u404	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is identical to the proposal made by the MP Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs who are not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 102 MPs: 14 against 75 abstentions 13. The proposals of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, as well as of the National Representative Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs have not been accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Radan Kanev and a group of MPs, which is also not supported by the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: 10, against 74, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for § 27, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: for 89, against 13, abstention 3. The text of the importer for § 27 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u405	Under § 28, there is a proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly to dismiss § 28. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u406	Withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u407	There is an identical proposal of the MP Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs: supposed to be as follows: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 125, para. 1, t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." compulsory participation with the exception of persons provided by the order of art. 4c, para. 1 in the Fund The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u408	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 100 MPs: 13, against 68, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. I now vote on the proposal of the MP Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs identically with that of the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs, which was withdrawn anyway, is not supported by the Commission. Please vote on the proposal of MP Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 2 against 55, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for § 28, which is supported by the Commission. Please vote on the text of the importer supported by the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 84, against 10, abstention 2. The text of the importer for § 28 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u409	A proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly, § 29, to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u410	It's withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u411	I saw. It is identical in its first part with the proposal of Georgi Kovachev, the difference is in point. 2. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 29 to be amended as follows: ,§ 29. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 127 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 words, except for persons provided by the order of art. 46 in the Pensions Fund are deleted. 2. Allinei 3, 6, 7 and 8 are cancelled. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from MP Radan Kanev and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 32.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u412	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u413	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support the text of the importer. [[Private applause from GERB.]] Before you clap, you should know that you canceled what you accepted six months ago and we convinced you it was a very lost job. Then in the same stubborn way, you insisted on accepting the transfer of funds to the National Insurance Institute from private pension funds. The Council of Ministers had to carry out the Law's commission and issue an act under para. 8 for the order and way of translating the amounts under para. 6. The Council of Ministers didn't do anything. Blocking the implementation of the Law was actually a tactic and a means not to apply the Law that you stubbornly adopted. There was a public discussion. I am speaking to support the Council of Ministers' proposal now and to tell you that the rule of law in which we have the rule of law is not done. As much as you curse the judiciary, there will be no rule of law in which the legislative process is progressing in this way. The National Assembly, the majority, accepts something of stubbornness, the Council of Ministers does not comply with the laws, waiting for time to pass, to pass six months. In fact, at the end of January I do not know exactly how many they are, you will see them, and finally quietly and quietly cancel this, and the same majority, the same MPs who accepted it, cancel it in silence, in a semi-sleep sleepy state in plenary. [[Voices: "Eeeee!" by GERB.]] Dear MPs, laws, the rule of law and the rule of law are not done this way. That is why I wanted to pay attention to you and support this time the sensible proposal of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u414	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 102 MPs: 11 against 73, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs, which is also not supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 2 against 68, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for § 29, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 97 against 1, no abstentions. The text of the importer for § 29 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u415	According to § 30 there are identical proposals from the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs, from the National Representative Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs... [[(Reply:]] They withdraw it, but there are other proposals. There is a proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal to dismiss § 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u416	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs identical to that of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs who are not supported by the Commission. They voted 103 MPs: 9 against 75, abstention 19. The proposals of the MP Georgi Kovachev and the group, as well as the MP Cornelia Ninova and the group, have not been accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for § 30, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: for 94, no 13 abstentions. The text of the importer for § 30 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u417	There is a proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly to drop § 31. The Commission does not support the proposal. The following amendment is made by the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs in § 31: In Al. The 3th sentence of the Annual application to a pension insurance company shall also be submitted by the persons referred to in art. 124a, para. The following entry is inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 May 2011 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and repealing Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MPs Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs in § 31. 1 to be amended as follows: "1." In para. 3 the words "one year' shall be replaced by "three months'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 34.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u418	Meanwhile, Mr. Bayraktarov withdrew his offer. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 107 MPs: 15 against 75 abstentioned 17. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the MPs Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 103 MPs: for 7, against 77, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for § 31, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: 90, against 12, abstention 5. The text of the importer for § 31 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u419	Under § 32 and § 33, there are proposals from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly. § 32, Paragraph 33, respectively, shall be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal for § 32 for § 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 35, and for § 33, which shall become § 36.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u420	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mikov. [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u421	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, we are against this change because by about 20% the required reduced performance is increasing. From 70.99 per cent of the government is proposed to become 89.99 per cent. By about 20% the requirement for reduced performance is increased and in fact becomes 90% reduced performance. So far, the text envisioned 70% reduced performance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u422	Seventy-one percent.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u423	Yeah, 71%. You correct me. There shall be a one-off payment of up to 50 percent of the funds accumulated on the individual account. A man has imported, at the same time he is deprived of that right. So we say that what is offered as a change is right, right, right! Deviation of rights! This is what you do and you have to stay in the transcripts to make it clear what you do, because tomorrow people will have to know who has done what with the Law and most of all with their money that they have imported for insurance! That's why we're against it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u424	Stenographers write, don't worry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u425	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote Mrs Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs for dropping paragraphs 32 and 33 by importer. The Commission does not support these proposals. They voted 102 MPs: 21, against 73, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for Anblock § 32 and § 33 by importer, supported by the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: 86 against 15, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u426	Under § 34 there is a proposal from the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u427	He's retreating. He's retreating.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u428	There is an identical proposal from the MPs Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs - § 34 to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is also a proposal for dismissal by the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 37.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u429	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs and Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs to drop § 34. The Commission does not support the proposals. They voted 104 MPs: 18, against 71, abstention 15. The proposals have not been accepted. I shall put to the vote § 34, supported by the Commission. Vote 104 MPs: 85 against 15, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u430	Under § 35, there is a proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly to dismiss § 35. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u431	Statements? I won't. We are voting on Mrs. Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. Vote 100 MPs: 15 against 74, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. We vote § 35 by importer, supported by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 89, against 12, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u432	Proposal by the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 35a.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u433	Now is the time to withdraw it so we don't read it, Mr. Bayraktarov. You're not withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u434	The next proposal is from the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs to create a new § 35b.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u435	You should also read § 35a.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u436	Didn't you withdraw it? I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u437	You didn't pull it off.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u438	A proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs is created a new § 35a: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 177 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinei 1 and 2 are amended as follows: The pension insurance company shall not invest the funds of an additional compulsory pension fund in: 1. financial instruments issued by the pension insurance company by related persons within the meaning of Paragraph 1, para. 2, p. 3, b. In the case of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a non-resident company of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a group of employees of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a parent company of a parent company of a parent company of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a parent company of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a parent company of a parent company of a subsidiary of a parent company of a 2. financial instruments issued by the bank trustee of the fund, by an investment firm under art. 123c, para. 1 or by persons associated with them within the meaning of § 1, para. 2, p. 3, b. the additional provisions; 3. shares of collective investment scheme or shares or shares of another collective investment undertaking under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 10 and 14, managed by a person related to the pension insurance company within the meaning of Paragraph 1, para. 2, p. 3, b. the additional provisions; 4. financial instruments or investment property that are not fully paid out. (2) Additional pension fund assets shall not be acquired by: 1. the pension insurance company that manages it from related persons within the meaning of Paragraph 1, para. 2, p. 3, b. In the case of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a non-resident company of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a group of employees of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a parent company of a parent company of a parent company of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a parent company of a subsidiary of a subsidiary of a parent company of a parent company of a 2. another supplementary pension fund managed by the pension fund; 3. the bank trustee of the fund or its related persons within the meaning of § 1, para. 2, p. 3, b. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 4. Investment firm under art. 123c, para. 1 or by persons associated with it within the meaning of § 1, para. 2, p. 3, b. the additional provisions; 5. collective investment scheme or other collective investment undertaking under art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1, t. 10 and 14, managed by a person related to the pension insurance company within the meaning of Paragraph 1, para. 2, p. 3, b. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The prohibition on acquisition under para. 2 and 3 shall not apply in the case of the conclusion of a transaction on a regulated market in a Member State or on an official market on a stock exchange or on another organised market in a third country operating on a regular, recognised and publicly available basis. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u439	Report to her the proposal for a new § 35b. [[National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov wants the floor.]] You'll have speeches then together. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] You want two solo speeches. You have the floor, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u440	Thank you, Madam President, for complying with my wishes. My fellow Members, I realize that a large part of the people present here, without wanting to offend anyone, will find it difficult to understand what this text is about. This text is on an extremely expert level. To make it clear, I'm going to try to give you a few things. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] Karadayi, don't wave your hand at me because you don't understand it at all. [[Radio.]] I'll try to remind you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u441	Get to the point, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u442	I'll explain it to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u443	I'm relieved, Mr. Ademov will explain. At the end of December and the beginning of January, many colleagues were circling the media worried that pension insurance companies did not realise income for insured persons, that there is a risk that some of the funds collected on individual accounts might have gone the wrong way. Simply put, it has to work with these funds through connected persons. It is for this reason that we propose the creation of § 35a, which precisely and clearly regulates how pension insurance companies can manage those funds and the portfolios for which they are responsible. By the way, I want to tell you, this text was proclaimed by the Financial Supervision Commission as early as 2009. Then the President of the Commission comes out and makes a public statement that such a text is needed. He said, "We have prepared a package." This package is still available to this day, but has never been submitted to the Chamber for consideration. So if you really want us to protect the funds of Bulgarian citizens in their individual accounts, I call on you, colleagues, to adopt this text because it is a good text. This is the European Commission's requirement, it is clearly stated in the February report of the European Commission. This requirement is clearly stated in the March report of the International Monetary Fund, as also stated by the World Bank. Now I ask you: since we are constantly talking about Euro-Atlantic values here, after it is said that we must comply with what our partners require of us, with what eyes will you reject this text? With what eyes?! I want to hear motives on this text, and I especially want Karadayj to come out and oppose me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u444	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Bajraktarov and a group to create a new paragraph, which the Commission does not support. Vote 78 MPs: 10, against 44, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u445	A proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs is created § 35b: supposed to be at the end of the restructuring period (i.e. at the end of the restructuring period) and at the end of the restructuring period (i.e. at the end of the 1.A new para is being created. 2 containing the following content: The total value of an additional compulsory pension fund investment in financial instruments issued by companies in a single group shall not exceed 10 per cent of the fund's assets. The limit referred to in the preceding sentence shall include the deposits of the fund in the group banks, the value of the net exposure to the counterparty in the forward currency contracts and the interest rate cyap contracts and the difference between the market value of the asset concerned and the amount received in the case of repurchase transactions under art. 179a with these banks. The limit referred to in the first sentence shall also include the value of the net exposure to the counterparty concerned in the forward currency contracts and the difference between the market value of the asset concerned and the amount received in repurchase transactions under art. 179a with financial institutions of the group. 2. Previously on AMC's... 2 "12" becomes 3 "13" respectively. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u446	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov. I'd suggest you sit further so we don't waste any time moving here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u447	Thank you, Madam President. I will continue my speech because on this text, on which we have proposed, a very serious analysis has been made, as over the years it has been shown that some of the related parties have played extremely speculatively on the Stock Exchange. Moreover, the analysis we have done has shown an atypical way of changing the value of shares at certain times, which proves that the existence of this text is extremely important and I urge you to support it, because in this way, people who have shown concern through the media about the yields of the lots of insured persons will now have the opportunity to protect it. Now, that's the truth. If you really want to protect the contributions of insured persons, colleagues, support this text, because it is for the benefit of all of you. By the way, if this text is not adopted, the most damaged are a large part of the MPs, as the vast majority have the largest amounts in their individual accounts. So, as they say, approach selfishly, protect your own interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u448	Names.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u449	Thank you. You're not on that list.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u450	- What's the line? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Bayraktarov and a group of MPs for a new § 35b, which is not supported by the Commission. 88 MPs voted: 10, against 46, abstentioned 32. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u451	Proposal from the MPs Cornelia Nino, Yordan Tsonev, Mariana Todorova, Vladislav Nikolov, Nastimir Ananiev, Chavdar Peychev, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal by Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 39: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 180 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 words by 31 March each year shall be replaced by every quarter, by the 10th number of the following month and the words by the previous year shall be replaced by the previous quarter. 2. In para. 2: (a) c. 1 before the word "Content" is added "form" and "Species." (b) c. 2 the words "the achieved investment results' shall be replaced by "the achieved yield and the level of risks incurred'.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u452	Statements? Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u453	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and colleagues, following several proposals signed by MPs from the various parliamentary groups, members of the Temporary Commission, let's call it for short, under private pension funds. You must remember, after the Commission's work has been completed, we have come to you with a report which identifies several problems and we have made proposals for legislative solutions to these problems. One, to sum it up like this, was aimed at increasing the transparency and awareness of people who have their accounts in private pension funds. The current law provides that funds will publicly export income information once a year by the end of March. Since this has turned out to be insufficient and not up to date, we are proposing that this happen every quarter, that is, four times a year, to oblige funds to announce, through the law, the yield, with which we aim to inform citizens more often, to have greater publicity, transparency and accessibility to information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u454	Any lines to Mrs. Ninova? I won't. Any other MPs for a statement? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 39 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 96 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u455	Proposal by Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u456	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u457	He's withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u458	It's withdrawn, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u459	Proposal by the MPs Cornelia Nino, Yordan Tsonev, Mariana Todorova, Vladislav Nikolov, Nastimir Ananiev, Chavdar Peychev for the creation of a new § 35b which is supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 40: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... Article 201 is amended as follows: Fees due Art. 201 (1) In order to carry out the activity of additional compulsory pension insurance and pension fund management, fees and deductions shall be introduced for the benefit of pension insurance companies as follows: 1. support from each insurance contribution of up to: (a) 4,5 per cent for 2016; (b) 4,25 per cent for 2017; (c) 4 per cent for 2018; (d) 3,75 per cent from 2019 2. an investment fee calculated on the value of the fund's net assets, depending on the period during which they were managed by the pension fund, as follows: (a) up to 0,9 per cent per year for 2016; (b) up to 0,85 per cent per year for 2017; (c) up to 0,8 per cent per year for 2018; (d) up to 0,75% per cent per year from 2019. (2) The fee under para. 1, t. 2 shall be determined and set aside in order and manner defined by a commission regulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u460	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u461	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, I propose only one version which is in art. 201, para. 2, where it is: the tax on para. 1, t. 2 shall be determined and charged.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Since we have already determined the fees, I propose simply to drop the words....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u462	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. First, I will put to the vote Mr. Ananiev's proposal, which says that al. 2 should sound like this: The fee referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be calculated on the basis of the following formula: 1, t. 2 shall be deducted in order and manner defined by a Commission regulation The arguments are that the determination that he proposes to reject is already taking place further in the relevant points and letters of this text. We are voting on Mr. Ananiev's proposal. Vote 97 MPs: 94 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We are voting § 40, in line with the newly adopted decision under para. 2. They voted 101 MPs: 98 against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u463	Proposal from the MPs Cornelia Nino, Yordan Tsonev, Mariana Todorova, Vladislav Nikolov, Nastimir Ananiev, Chavdar Peychev: Paragraph 35c is inserted: ,§ 35c. Art. 202 is amended as follows: Art. 202. The pension insurance company can collect an additional fee of up to 20 BGN. in the case of the transfer of funds to the individual account in a pension scheme under art. 343a, para. 1, t. Art. 2 or art. 343f, para. 1. The fee shall be paid by the insured person. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u464	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u465	Madam President, I do not want to do a procedure, but I am making a statement which is directed to my colleague Nastimir Ananiev. Colleague Ananiev, you are making a proposal on the same article once with Mrs Cornelia Ninova, and a second time, you are proposing a proposal on the same member on your behalf and a group of MPs. I would like to ask: have you, colleagues, seen such a unique case, to make a proposal with two groups of MPs under the same member?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u466	In the alternative, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u467	In the alternative, there is no such thing in the Rules. I ask you to stand up and explain which of the two proposals you support, because one comes out on behalf of the Commission, the so-called Committee for Pension Funds. From now on, I tell you, because you also signed there, colleague Ananiev, that in the end there is a spectacular scandal, but a spectacular scandal. And you'll find out what it's about. That's why I'm asking you to reconsider whether you signed your signature and read what you signed? I'm not making that statement for a reason. It's an appetizer of the scandal to come.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u468	A line, Mr. Ananiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u469	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Bajraktarov, as Vice-President of the Temporary Commission of Funds, I have supported the proposal of colleagues. I had my differences, so I put in my own proposal so there could be an alternative and also be able to have a dispute and find the best option. I am pleased that the Commission has supported my proposal. I understand that you didn't like it, but that's life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u470	Second line? A hole, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u471	Yes, Commissioner Ananiev, I really don't like it, and now I'm going to explain why I don't like either proposal. Because, honourable Members, this proposal, which at first glance seems very good, see, we will reduce the fees, only with the acceptance of art. 4b for the so-called choice, colleague Ananiev, you give the green light free and free two billion leva, remember the word, two billion leva in just a few months to go to another fund. The fee introduced for the transfer of funds from one fund to another, in the first place, was stopping. Someone has to pay for this pleasure. Currently you are doing it for free, playing 10 BGN, 20 BGN, and these 10 and 20 BGN are only a fee if the funds are transferred to a fund that is located in a country of a member of the European Union, but not in Bulgaria. That's what you're doing! I hope you understand that, you give the green light. You know very well as a member of this Commission that there is also a tenth fund that is registered and, so to speak, is waiting on stand-by. On stand-by waiting for all this to happen. I hope you realize that. I'm telling you this well because I really respect you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u472	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. To speak, the people's representative Cornelia Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u473	My fellow Members, the proposal that we have made before you, the Commissioners who have signed it, is in agreement with the Financial Supervision Commission and the private funds. As a party to this conversation, in this dialogue, they have agreed to this proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have been guided by the aim of reducing people's costs in terms of serving their money in lots. Reducing fees actually leads to increasing people's resources in their individual accounts. That was the only motive. No doubt about any agreements.. to help some of the funds at the expense of others are not serious in this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u474	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MPs Cornelia Nino, Yordan Tsonev, Mariana Todorova, Vladislav Nikolov, Nastimir Ananiev and Chavdar Peychev, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 23, against 12, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's proposal for the creation of a new § 41. Please vote on proposals from the Commission § 41 with the corresponding text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u475	I didn't read it, though.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u476	Oh, yeah? Cancel the vote. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u477	A proposal from the MPs Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 41: ............................................................................. Art. 202 is amended as follows: "Administrative Fee" Art. 202. The pension insurance company can collect an additional fee of up to 10 BGN. in the case of the transfer of funds to the individual account in a pension scheme under art. 343a, para. 1, t. Art. 2 or art. 343f, para. 1. The fee shall be paid by the insured person.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u478	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposals to create a new § 41 together with the relevant content on the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 96 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 7. Paragraph 41 together with the corresponding text, in accordance with the Commission's report, has been established and adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u479	Proposal from the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs: ..created § 35c: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in 1. A new para is being created. 2 containing the following content: The total value of the investment of an additional voluntary pension fund, respectively of an additional voluntary pension fund under professional schemes, in financial instruments issued by companies in one group shall not exceed 20 per cent of the fund's assets. The limit referred to in the preceding sentence shall also include the deposits of the fund in the group banks, the net exposure value to the counterparty in the forward currency contracts and the interest rate swap contracts and the difference between the market value of the asset concerned and the amount received in the case of repurchase transactions under art. 179a with these banks. The limit referred to in the first sentence shall also include the value of the net exposure to the counterparty concerned in the forward currency contracts and the difference between the market value of the asset concerned and the amount received in repurchase transactions under art. 179a with financial institutions of the group. 2. Previously on AMC's... 2 " 10" becomes 3 "11" respectively. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u480	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 97 MPs: 18, against 28, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u481	Proposal by the Members of the National Assembly Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly, § 36, to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 42.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u482	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. 100 MPs voted: 9 against 57 abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 36, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 82, against 10, abstention 4. The text of the importer for § 36 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u483	Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] The proposal is supported by the following. 1... [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] The second point withdraws it. [[Applause.]] Proposal from the MPs Cornelia Nino, Yordan Tsonev, Mariana Todorova, Vladislav Nikolov, Nastimir Ananiev, Chavdar Peychev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 43: ..................................................... In the additional provisions of § 1, para. 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: Point 3 (e) is amended as follows: (e) persons owned directly and/or by a controlled person/person of 20 or more than 20 per cent of the capital or by the number of votes in the general meeting of the other legal person. 2. point 4 is amended as follows: "4." The following information shall be provided in the form of a copy of the information document referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article: (a) may exercise directly and/or through a controlled person/person more than half of the votes in the General Assembly of a legal person; or (b) may designate more than half of the members of the management or control body of a legal person at the same time as a shareholder or partner in that person; or (c) have the right to exercise decisive influence over a legal person under a contract concluded with that person or its constituent act or statutes, if this is admissible under the law applicable to that legal person; or (d) is a shareholder or partner of a company, and: (aa) more than half of the members of that legal person's management or control body who have performed the relevant functions during the preceding and current financial year and until the consolidated financial statements are drawn up have been determined only as a result of the exercise of its voting rights; or (bb) which controls independently under a contract with other shareholders or partners in that legal person more than half of the votes in the General Assembly of that legal person; or (e) under law, an instrument or agreement shall govern, represent and/or determine the investment policy of another person. In the cases referred to in points (a), (b) and (d), the votes of the controller shall also be added to the votes of the legal persons over which he exercises control, as well as the votes of the persons acting on his behalf, but on his behalf or at the expense of a legal person controlled by him. In the cases referred to in points (a), (b) and (d), the votes of the controller shall be reduced by the votes on the shares held at the expense of a person who is neither the controller nor a legal person controlled by him, and by the votes on the shares which are the subject of a pledge if their rights are exercised by order and in the interest of the pledgeor. In the cases referred to in points (a) and (d), the votes of the controller shall be reduced by the votes on the shares held by the person under his own control by a person controlled by him or by a person acting on his own behalf but at the expense of the controller and the person under his control.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u484	Statements? I won't. I am voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 43. [[Noise and lines.]] We are voting on a proposal from the Commission to create a new paragraph. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] Paragraph 42 was created just now. Please suspend the vote and declare the result. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 43 is unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u485	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u486	Procedure in the manner of conduct, please. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] If you're going to ask me when § 42 was created, please refer to the transcript.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u487	Dear Mr. Glauchev, the proposal I made in § 42 is supported by the Commission. It is in no way reflected in the so-called you.............................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u488	He's not from me. He's from the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u489	Okay. And when was then voted on the proposal, which is supported by the Commission and which states that § 36, which becomes § 42, and then created § 36a. I ask you: when did we vote on this text, which concerns the related parties and is supported by the Commission? Now, let me see, here in the transcript, when did we vote it, and why did you skip that text?! [[Noise and lines.]] No, just now, it hasn't been voted on. [[Reply from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova.]] There is no 43 such thing as the 43rd paragraph I can read to you what it says, it is something else entirely. [[Noise and lines.]] I apologize very much, but keep an eye on things, because this is how Members of the National Assembly are misled and do not vote on texts that are supported by the Commission. [[Reply from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova.]] Here's the colleague Svetlana Angelova said he wasn't in the report at all. If you have to, give it a rest. [[Noise and lines.]] I don't want to take a break, but if I have to... [[Loud noise and lines. A line from the rapporteur Hasan Ademov.]] Am I right, Mr. Ademov? [[Loud noise and lines.]] I'm right, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u490	Take 15 minutes off. [[After the break]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u491	Colleagues, please take your seats. The hearing is ongoing. Before the interruption, § 43 new on the Commission report was voted on. Mr. Ademov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u492	There is a proposal from the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs § 37 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in § 37: 1. points 1 and 2 to be dropped; 2. points 3 and 4 to become t. 1 and 2; 3. create a new t. 3: "3." Paragraph 6c shall be inserted with the following content: 6c. (1) When applying for a retirement pension and age pension, the person insured in a universal pension fund, born from 01.01.1960 to 31 December 1969 including, shall have the right to choose whether to receive pensions from the National Insurance Institute and from a universal pension fund or only a pension from the National Insurance Institute, if it is more favourable to it. (2) The person who wishes to exercise his right under para. 1 expressly states it to the National Insurance Institute, which calculates the amount of the retirement pension and the age of the applicant, in two versions: 1. without applying art. 70, para. 7); 2. by applying art. 70, para. 7. (3) The National Insurance Institute shall inform the pension insurance company managing the universal pension fund in which the person is insured of his application for retirement and age pension. (4) The pension insurance company receiving the information under para. 3, calculates a pension from a universal pension fund on the basis of the funds accumulated on the individual account of the person and informs the National Insurance Institute of its size. (5) After receiving the information under para. 4 The National Insurance Institute shall grant pension for retirement and age: 1. in the size by para. 2, p. 1, if it is greater than the sum of the pension, in the size of para. 2, p. 2 and the pension from a universal pension fund; 2. in size by para. 2, p. 2, if the sum of it and the pension from a universal pension fund is greater than the amount of para. 2, p. 1. (6) The National Insurance Institute shall send a copy of the order to grant the pension to the pension insurance company by: 1. in the cases under para. 5, t. 1, the accumulated funds on the individual account of the person shall be transferred from the respective universal pension fund to the Fund. 69, within one month of receipt of the order from the pension insurance company; 2. in the cases under para. 5, t. 2 inform the person that he should submit the necessary documents to the pension insurance company in order to be granted an additional pension from the universal pension fund in which he is insured. (7) The contribution to the universal pension fund of the persons whose funds have been transferred to the Fund of Pensions, respectively the Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (8) The order and the way to transfer the funds from the universal pension fund to the Fund of Pensions, respectively the Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. For the exchange of information between the National Insurance Institute and pension insurance companies, the Financial Supervision Commission, in agreement with the Managing Director of the National Insurance Institute, shall determine the rules for the exchange of information between the National Insurance Institute and the pension insurance companies. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MPs Dora Yankova and a group of MPs: In § 37 a new point 1 shall be created with the following content: ,1. In § 4, para. 1, 2 and 3 the words "up to 31 December 2015" shall be replaced by the words "up to 31 December 2018" including the words "up to 31 December 2018." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs: In § 37, the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 shall be deleted; 2. Points 2 and 3 shall become points 2 and 3 respectively. 1 and 2. 3. To create a new t. 3: ,,3. Paragraph 6c shall be inserted with the following content: , § 6c. (1) The persons insured in a universal pension fund born from 01.01.1960 to 31 December 1969 shall be entitled, within one year before the age of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 to transfer once the funds accumulated on their individual account in the fund to the Fund of Pensions, respectively the Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (2) The persons under para. 1 explicitly state to the pension fund manager of the universal pension fund in which they are insured their wish that the funds accumulated on their individual account in the fund be transferred to the Fund of Pensions, respectively the Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (3) The funds of the persons who have declared a wish according to the order of para. 2 shall be transferred to an account of the Fund "Pensions" respectively, Fund "Pensions" for the persons under art. 69s, within one month of submission of the application to the pension insurance company managing the universal pension fund in which they are insured. (4) The contribution to the universal pension fund of the persons whose funds have been transferred to the Fund of Pensions, respectively the Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (5) As from the first day of the month following the month of submission of the application under para. 2, The National Revenue Agency shall suspend the transfer of contributions for the person who submitted the application to the universal pension fund and shall begin to transfer them to the Fund. 69 "In which the contribution to it is increased by the amount of the contribution under art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 1, t. 1. (6) When applying for a pension for internship and age from persons whose funds have been transferred to the Fund of Pensions, respectively the Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. The National Insurance Institute shall calculate the amount of the pension in two versions: 1. without applying art. 70, para. 7); 2. by applying art. 70, para. 7. (7) The National Insurance Institute shall notify the pension insurance company managing the universal pension fund from which the funds of the person concerned have been transferred to the person concerned for his application for retirement and age pension. (8) The pension insurance company received the information under para. 7, calculates pension from a universal pension fund on the basis of the funds transferred to the Fund of Pensions, respectively the Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. It shall inform the National Insurance Institute of its size. (9) After receiving the information under para. 8 The National Insurance Institute shall grant pension for internship and age: 1. in the size by para. 5, t. 1, if it is greater than the sum of the pension, in the size of para. 5, t. 2 and the pension from a universal pension fund; 2. in size by para. 5, t. 2, if the sum of it and the pension from a universal pension fund is greater than the amount of para. 5, t. 1. (10) In the cases referred to in para. 9, p. 2 The National Social Security Institute shall transfer to the universal pension fund the funds transferred to the Fund. Article 69 (a) and the contributions received under Article 69 (b) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 69 (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 1, t. 1 after the date under para. 5, within one month of the date of disposal of the pension for retirement and age. (11) The insurance relationship with the universal pension fund in which the funds under para. 10 shall be recovered from the date of their entry into its account and the pension insurance company managing it shall grant the pension from a universal pension fund in accordance with the order and within the time limits laid down in its rules. (12) The order and manner of exercising the right under para. 1 for the transfer of funds from a universal pension fund to the Fund of Pensions, respectively the Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. For the exchange of information between the National Insurance Institute and pension insurance companies, the Financial Supervision Commission, agreed with the Governor of the National Insurance Institute, shall establish a regulation. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Hasan Ademov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the CPNS: In § 37 t. Five out. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 37, which shall become § 44: ..................................................... The transitional and final provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 4b al. 5 is amended as follows: In the case of the granting of a pension under art. 168 The National Insurance Institute shall translate those transferred on the basis of § 4a. 1 funds from the occupational pension fund in which the person was insured as at 31 December 2010 and the contributions made to the pension fund received after that date until 17 June 2011 including, on the account of the occupational pension fund that grants the pension. The funds shall be transferred within 14 days of notification to the National Insurance Institute that a pension from a professional pension fund has been granted. 2. Paragraph 5 is hereby repealed. 3. In § 6, para. 1 after the words "35 per cent', a comma is added, it shall be added as from 1 July 2019. "40 per cent" and comma. 4. In § 22: (a) in para. 1 the words "until its transformation into a universal pension fund" shall be deleted; (b) Paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 shall be repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u493	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Mrs. Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 107 MPs: 12, against 69, abstention 26. The proposal is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Bayraktarov and a group. The Commission does not support it. They voted 88 MPs: for 7, against 63, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the unsupported proposal of Ms. Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. Vote 95 MPs: 8 against 69, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for an unsupported proposal by Mr. Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs. They voted 98 MPs: 2 against 74, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 44 on the Commission report. They voted 105 MPs: 91, against 10, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u494	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u495	We vote. They voted 99 MPs: 93 against 3, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u496	Paragraph 38. Proposal of the Members of the National Assembly Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly, § 38, to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Hasan Ademov, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 38, which shall become § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) Pensions for insurance internship and age of persons under art. 4, para. 1, t. 1-4 and 6 and art. 4a, the provision of which has been terminated after the acquisition of the right to a pension but not later than 31 December 2014, shall be granted from the date of termination of the insurance if the application with the necessary documents has been submitted within 6 months of that date. If the application is submitted after the expiry of the 6-month period of termination of the insurance, pensions shall be granted from the date of submission of the application. (2) Persons with granted pensions for internship and age under the conditions of art. 94, para. 1 on applications submitted after 31 December 2014 may, within 6 months of the promulgation of the law, request that pensions be granted to them under the conditions of para. 1. (3) The pensions of the teachers granted under § 5, para. 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions with a starting date until 31 December 2015 shall be paid in a reduced amount until the person of the age of the acquisition of a pension under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u497	Statements? I won't. We are voting on Mrs Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 11 against 69, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 45 on the Commission report. Vote 96 MPs: 90 against 4, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u498	Paragraph 39. There is a proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs............................................................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs. The proposal by Mr. Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs is identical: The following paragraph is inserted after the second paragraph:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u499	He's withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u500	The proposal has been withdrawn by Mr. Bayraktarov and a group of MPs, but since Mr. Kovachev is not here, so please read his proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u501	Proposal of the MPs Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs: The following shall be added to the table in Annex II to .............................................................................. (1) For insured persons born after 31 December 1959 for whom the obligation to provide a universal pension fund arose after 31 December 2014 until the entry into force of this law, the term under art. 137, para. 3 starts from the date of entry into force of this law. (2) For persons who did not receive a universal pension fund within the term under para. 1 shall be made official distribution under art. 137, para. 4................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Hasan Ademov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 39, which shall become § 46: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. For insured persons born after 31 December 1959 for whom an initial insurance obligation arose after 31 December 2014 until the entry into force of this law and who did not make a choice according to the order of art. 137, para. 3 shall be allocated by service to the registered universal funds in a manner and in a manner determined by the National Revenue Agency and by the Committee on Art. 3. 120b, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u502	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Mrs Cornelia Ninova's unsupported proposal and a group of MPs. 100 MPs voted: 12, against 71, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the unsupported proposal of Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs. They voted 93 MPs: for 6, against 71, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 46 on the Commission report. Vote 92 MPs: 82 against 4, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u503	Paragraph 40. There is a proposal from Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs to drop § 40. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Hasan Ademov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 40, which shall become § 47: ss ss s s s s s The persons referred to in art. 69 who have the necessary insurance service to acquire the right to a pension may retire without requiring exemption from the service, respectively the dismissal or termination of the pension.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u504	Statements? I won't. We are voting for Mrs Ninova's unsupported proposal and a group of MPs. They voted 104 MPs: 10, against 75, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 47 on the Commission report. Voted 103 MPs: 89 against 11, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u505	On 41, there is a proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Kiril Dobrev and Maya Manolova: The following shall be taken into account in the transitional and final provisions: ............................................................................. State employees under the Ministry of Interior Act can retire without regard to the minimum age under art. 69 by 31 December 2018, introducing a change in the legal framework for the differentiation of positions in that ministry, according to the nature and special working conditions and with a view to the use of early retirement rights. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 48.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u506	Statements? I won't. We are voting for Mrs Ninova's unsupported proposal and a group of MPs. They voted 107 MPs: 12, against 76, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposal of Mr. Kiril Dobrev and Maya Manolova, unsupported. They voted 101 MPs: 11 against 65, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. We vote § 41 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 100 MPs: 90 against 5, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u507	Under § 42, there is a proposal from the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs to drop out. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Georgi Kovachev and a group of Members of the National Assembly, § 42, to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Identical proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly to drop § 42. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Mariana Todorova and a group of MPs supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 42, which shall become § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) The persons to whom a public benefit pension has been granted with an initial date until 31 December 2015 and with a reduced individual coefficient according to the repealed para. 3 of art. 127, may request its recalculation if, by 31 December 2016, they choose to transfer the funds from their individual accounts to a universal pension fund in the Fund of the State Social Security by 31 December 2016. The accrued funds in the individual account of the insured person shall be transferred from the respective universal pension fund to the Fund................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, In this case, the pension shall be revalued from the first number of the month following the one in which the choice was made. The social security contributions for additional compulsory pension insurance after the reclaim of the pension shall be transferred to the Pension Fund. (2) The persons of whom less than 5 years remain on 1 January 2016 until the age of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 may, by 31 December 2016, exercise the right referred to in Article 1 once. 4b of choice to change their insurance from a universal pension fund in the Fund of Pensions, respectively Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. 69 (of state social security)..........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u508	I put to the vote Mrs. Nino's proposal and a group of MPs, identical with the proposal of Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs for the removal of § 42... an unsupported proposal from the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 15 against 75 abstentions 13. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 49 on the Commission report. Vote 98 MPs: 81, against 12, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u509	Proposal by the National Representative Hasan Ademov for the creation of a new § 43. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 50: .................................................................................. Persons who have a pension awarded with an order entered into force until 31 December 2015 may request by 31 December 2016 a claim of the pension from the insurance income for another three-year period prior to 1 January 1997.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u510	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 50 to a new one on the Commission's report. They voted 102 MPs: 98, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u511	Under § 43, there is a proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly to dismiss § 43. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43, which shall become § 51.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u512	We are voting for Mrs Ninova's unsupported proposal and a group of MPs. Vote 94 MPs: 8 against 70 abstentions 16. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 43 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 100 MPs: 90 against 6, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u513	Proposal by the MPs Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 43a: ..................................................................... For pension insurance companies managing an additional compulsory pension fund for which the term under art. 201, para. 3 has expired, Art. 201, para. 4 and 5 shall apply. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u514	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the unsupported proposal of Mr. Ananiev and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u515	The pulses aren't working!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u516	Cancel the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 107 MPs: 13 against 54, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u517	Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In the transitional and final provisions, § 7: .................................................... The pensions granted until 31 December 2015 shall be recalculated in accordance with art. 70 with a percentage of 1.2 per cent per year of insurance service, without changing the income from which the pension is calculated. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u518	Statements? I won't. We are voting for Mrs Ninova's unsupported proposal and a group of MPs. They voted 107 MPs: 8 against 78, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u519	Paragraph 44 contains identical proposals: - by the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u520	It's withdrawn!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u521	Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 44 to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 44 to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44, which shall become § 52.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u522	Statements? I won't. We vote on the unsupported proposals of Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs, and Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs who are identical. They voted 102 MPs: 8 against 76, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 44. They voted 105 MPs: 92, against 10, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u523	Under § 45, there is a proposal from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 45 to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 45 to be amended as follows: ,§ 45. In the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, in art. 179, para. 2 and 3 are amended as follows: The National Revenue Agency shall transfer the contributions for additional compulsory pension insurance within 30 days of their receipt from the dedicated account on the account of the pension fund referred to by the pension insurance company managing it. Within the same period, the increased contribution to the persons under art. 4c, para. 1 and § 6c, para. 5 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Social Security Code. (3) The order for the selection of insurance, deposit, allocation of compulsory social contributions and exchange of information shall be governed by a regulation adopted by the Council of Ministers. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 53.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u524	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u525	Madam President, I withdrew my proposal because it is absolutely identical for my colleague Kovachev not to read two identical proposals. We will support the proposal of colleague Kovachev. By the way, I have to tell you what this is about. It is a pity that I do not see colleague Vladislav Nikolov, who is very aware of this case. What's the case, colleagues? In the National Revenue Agency for years there is a very unpleasant case, which in a specialized language is called "Storning Operations." What does that mean? For example, the Agency or its program, which very often makes some strange mistakes, reports a difference of two or three pennies. This difference immediately stops from the Agency your money that needs to be transferred into your individual accounts, to go where they belong. At the moment of 2006, I quote from memory because this was confirmed in a hearing of the National Revenue Agency in the Temporary Pension Fund Commission, these non-payments are being cleared in your accounts! It is for this reason that we propose that, within 30 days, the amounts should be transferred to where they belong, to realise income, as it is appropriate, and that citizens should not suffer. The amount, by memory, which I think continues to be in the so-called "stourning operations', exceeds 200 million. lv. More than 200 million. lv.! These works are currently being carried out since 2006! They have yet to be cleared for 2007, 2008. Perhaps in 2016 the amounts for 2012 will be cleared. Let them be so good from the National Revenue Agency to translate the amounts where they should be, and there is no problem that these few pennies or two-three leva difference should be withheld, an accounting leveling of these accounts should be carried out. Moreover, the NRA even wanted us to impose additional penalties on employers who, of course, have no fault at all. Therefore, this text is fair, it is in favour of all citizens, so that within 30 days their money can go where it is intended to go. That's the truth. I hope you understand that, because that's a fair text, fellow Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u526	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I vote on Mrs Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 103 MPs: 19 against 63, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr Kovachev and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 100 MPs: for 6, against 66, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 45 by importer, supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: for 93, against 7, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u527	Under § 46, there is a proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Milena Damyanova, Svetlana Angelova and Galya Zaharieva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 46, which shall become § 54: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Health Insurance Act in art. 40 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 2 words.............................................................................. 6, para. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled (b) c. 6 words................................................................................. 6, para. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled 2. In para. 3 t. 9 is amended as follows: Nine. Parents, adoptive parents, husbands, or one of the parents of the mother or father who care for a disabled person with a disability of over 90 per cent who constantly need foreign help.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u528	Statements? I won't. We are voting for Mrs Ninova's unsupported proposal and a group of MPs. Vote 108 MPs: 16 against 76 abstentions 16. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 54 on the Commission report. Vote 98 MPs: 90 against 7, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u529	Under § 47, there is a proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly to drop § 47. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 47, which shall become § 55.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u530	Statements? I won't. We are voting for Mrs Ninova's unsupported proposal and a group of MPs. They voted 101 MPs: 11 against 70, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 47 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 91 against 6, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u531	Proposal by the MPs Cornelia Nino, Yordan Tsonev, Mariana Todorova, Vladislav Nikolov, Nastimir Ananiev, Chavdar Peychev for the creation of a new § 47a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 56: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Public Offering of Securities (en. DV, No. 114, 1999; amend. The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 5 sentence 3 is created: "This requirement shall also apply to transactions and actions under art. 114c. (b) in para. 11 after the words "al." Article 1-10 is added. 114c. 2. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 114c: Art. 114c. With regard to transactions or actions representing performance under a contract concluded before entering the company in the register under art. 30, para. 1, t. 3 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act, art. 114 and 114a when the result of the transaction or action is passed the thresholds under Art. 114a. 114, para. 1-3. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 221, para. 5 after the words. 114a, para. 4 and 5 is a comma and is added. 114c
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u532	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u533	Madam President, honourable Members! You have just been read a text which has not been submitted and has not been voted by the Commission. [[Relations and calls from BSP LB.]] That's what this is about. And I will explain now, because with this text which was tabled by Mrs Cornelia Ninova, I have reacted extremely strongly to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u534	So it's imported! [[Noise, lines, cheering.]] What did you react to if the text was not submitted?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u535	Ma'am, don't interrupt me because the text hasn't been submitted. I'll show you now. Here is the text which has been submitted to the Chamber of Commerce with the signatures of the importers. And now I am reading you what the report says, which has not been submitted as a text to the Commission and which, Mr. Ademov, I ask you: how does the text in the report change and in what way? How is this changing of texts motivated? [[Noise and lines.]] Because in art. 114c, colleagues, I will read to you the importers what they have written down. They record: after the word "supervisor" I read to you: 114 et seq. It's an importer. Here is a report on what is offered to you: "Art. Art. 114, Art. 114 a.m. Such a thing the Commission has not voted on, no such text has been submitted to the Commission, nor, in other words, is someone here trying to mislead the MPs, and I ask: how so? [[BSP LB.]] Who? Yeah, who? [[Radio.]] Here a little while ago, a guy pretending to be open to say who, someone. It is already reserved, so we will call someone. So, Mr. Ademov, you owe an answer to your fellow Members in how you have read a text which has not been voted by the Commission. Is that an attempt at fraud? Is it an attempt to forge, or is it an attempt to serve interests that make up 900 million? lv.? [[Loud noise and lines.]] This is supported by these texts.. 900 million. lv.! I ask: how do these things happen? Therefore, Madam President, I would like a half hour's rest to decide what will happen in these texts. [[Loud noise and shouting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u536	Dear Mr. Bayraktarov...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u537	It's been an hour since the last break. I have a right to ask.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u538	Yes, you're right, Mr. Bayraktarov, that an hour has passed since the last break.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u539	There's no end to the hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u540	There's less than an hour left.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u541	How did you decide?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u542	You'll disprove me if this thing isn't true. Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u543	There is no fixed end to the working day, so do not violate the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u544	There are several paragraphs left that cannot be accepted in more than one hour.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u545	Otherwise, you will legitimise one thing that has not been voted by the Commission. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u546	Somebody go get your pills!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u547	Karadayi, the pills will be for someone else.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u548	Please, Mr. Bayraktarov. For medical care later, please. [[Laughter, excitement.]] Are there lines? There are no lines. Any other MPs? Mrs. Ninova, we expect you to respond to those placed by Mr. Bayraktarov... [[Heckling]] Let's hear from the importers. I'll ask him to answer it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u549	Dear colleagues, the proposal of the importers... [[Lowered noise, lines and calls.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u550	Please, let's hear the answer of the importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u551	The proposals of the importers are............................................................................... 114 et seq. That's what we signed and brought to the Office. That's how to put it, it's not exactly an offer, because it's an offer. 114, and the next. It means everything until the end of the Securities Act, it's not in the Social Security Code, it's about the Public Offering Act. The exact text that corresponds to the intentions for changes in the legislation is.......................................................................................... Art. 114, Art. 114 a.m. And, Madam President, I am making in this regard an editorial proposal: instead of an article. 114 et seq................................................................................................. Art. 114, Art. 114 a.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u552	This, Mrs. Nino, nowhere in the Commission's version do I see the following ones. ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The Law on the Public Offering of Securities shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is And you're going to write the letter, the letter, the letter, the letter, the letter, the letter, the letter, "2." Article 3 is replaced by the following: 114c: And then there's the editing. "3." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 221, para. 5 after the words. 114a, para. 4 and 5 is a comma and is added. 114c That's the offer. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u553	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly! I use even to address Mr. Kalfin, or if anyone in this room has an answer to the question. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] No, we started by adopting changes to the Social Security Code. We're still on the subject, but for two hours I've only been hearing some arguments about pension funds. Do not turn out that under the flag of the famous pension reform we are dealing with some struggle between pension funds. Get out there and explain it, because the arguments about who proposed what changed what, what was the end effect, leave this depressing impression, and we are not making a pension reform, but we are continuing the redistribution of some influence by interest. If not, explain it, because I have been following the debate and for two hours I have not heard anything else, which concerns the Bulgarian pensioners, only who, in what direction will target one or other actions of the pension funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u554	A line? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov. Just to remind Mr. Yanaki Stoilov that here in this House, we voted on the Commission report, led by Mrs. Cornelia Ninova, and we have committed to implementing amendments to the Law, which are in the sense that we are voting today. We're listening, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u555	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Stoilov, colleagues from two committees are the Energy Committee and the other one is for revision of the sector. They have gone mad to look for buffers and to reduce energy costs. This is about signed contracts in one of the ERPs worth 900 million. lv. between the related parties to this ERP and someone is trying to legitimise these contracts. I will take you back in time in 2003. 114 of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities for a single purpose to stop the draining of profits and to damage the state budget from non-taxing profits from companies through related persons. An indicative example in this regard was in 2003, 2002 and 2001. The refinery, which reduced its profit of 160.. 170 million, by memory, to 3 million. Then lawmakers, doing them honour, reacted very quickly because a group of businesses showed that there was a drastic damage to the state budget. Turns out there's still a list of 50,000, by the way. companies that have zero paid profit tax. Zero! The majority of these companies will now reveal to you a secret with Russian participation. It's on the list. $50,000. They're companies. [[Noise and lines.]] The current article. 114 purely legal is perfect. He acts without fail, only that someone wants to bypass him to insert some other texts with which all this can be legalized and wronged both you and every Bulgarian citizen of these contracts for 900 million. lv. I have said it here before, from this tribune, I am telling you this now: this is not about struggles, but about the protection of the interest of Bulgarian citizens. This is what this is about. I think Mr. Dobrev can confirm it, he's familiar with the case. [[Reply by National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u556	Mrs. Ninova, you can make a line, since you spoke earlier. You say you want a statement, but you just took the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u557	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u558	Are we done with the lines? A hole, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u559	Madam President! Mr. Bajraktarov, I admit that I am not familiar with the examples you quoted and the relationship between the activities of energy companies and pension funds. But since you opened up the topic of energy, it was very strange that this effort in the recently adopted Law how, without changing the conditions under which the different electricity producers work, could reduce the price of electricity by some other combinations. I think this is an almost unattainable task, and practice will soon confirm it. I continue to be under the impression that instead of focusing on the issues affecting the incomes of Bulgarian citizens from pensions and the rules for their determination, the pathos of this reform seem to be focused on how to replace pension funds in the landscape of the pension system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u560	Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u561	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I think that on this proposal the discussion needs clarification because it is a case for which Mr. Bajraktarov is right, and the entire Temporary Pension Fund Commission has united around how to prevent what happened a few years ago with one of the electricity distribution companies and several of the pension funds. I'm explaining how this term has come to change. It was requested by the pension funds and we in the Commission with all our colleagues responded, they will confirm it. This is about the following..................................................................................... Art. 114, Art. 114a, as Mr. Bajraktarov rightly pointed out, the Law on Public Offering of Securities regulates the matter of what transactions cannot be concluded by public companies. These are mainly related party transactions, transactions above certain thresholds. Not to list them in three whole sheets of the two terms are listed the assumptions that cannot be concluded, no transactions can be carried out as a result of which...... and are listed. These are art. 114 and 114a. The electricity distribution company in question, in which several pension funds invest their assets, i.e. pensioners' money, carries out such transactions, but carries them out before taking action to become public. Pension companies shall notify the Commission of financial supervision and request a penalty. The Financial Supervision Commission answers to them that transactions and investments took place before companies became public. That is, we see at that moment a emptiness in the Law. We all saw it on the Commission. Lawyers also admitted it, and the Financial Supervision Commission admitted it. By the way, it was also acknowledged by the companies which made the complaints in question. With this amendment in the Law, we say the following: if there is a similar case in the future, the transactions concluded before the company becomes public must be revised once it becomes public, after the funds of the pension funds have been invested in that company. That is, we are trying to fill the legislative gap in terms of what will happen from now on. What happened then is the subject of a judicial dispute, or the subject of anything else. The pension companies then accepted such transactions by voting and the majority shareholder was no longer involved in the votes. Only minority shareholders were involved, as is the requirement of art. Art. 114, Art. 114a, but we now predict this to happen even if there is such a hypothesis as was in the past. So we have no relation to this text to legitimizing any of the things that have happened in the past. We're trying to fill this void, and we've all united around this text. The easiest thing to do was to do something else without taking any legislative initiative and leave art. Art. 114, Art. 114a to act as it is now. In a similar hypothesis, the same dispute would arise in the future, the same case. That's why we tried to fix it. In the Commission, as far as my memory recalls, the main problem was that Mr. Bajraktarov had to correct me, if I was wrong, the dispute was not about whether or not there were legislative changes, but whether it was the FSC's fault, whether it should have stopped the deal or not had to stop it, whether it had to respond that way or whether it had to respond in a different way. Given that we had an interpretation of lawyers about the text that was acting, and it is that these transactions were concluded before the electricity distribution company in question even filed documents to become public, we cannot apply this hypothesis. Here, this is the whole case of this controversial article, which, by the way, if we leave it unaccepted, will remain as it was, there will be no consequences either for the electricity distribution company or for pension companies.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u562	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I can't see. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote § 56 on the Commission report. They voted 107 MPs: 34 against 12, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u563	Proposal by Mariana Todorova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 57: ...... 57............................................................... In the Labour Code (promise, SG 2a) § 2a of the Additional Provisions is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u564	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 57 on the Commission report. Accordingly, there will be another numbering. Vote 104 MPs: 90 against 13, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u565	Under § 48, there is a proposal from the MPs Kiril Dobrev and Maya Manolova to drop § 48. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the Members of the National Assembly Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly, The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 58.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u566	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u567	Madam President, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members! The proposal of the Reform bloc is related to the introduction of the legal requirements... the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and the Minister of Health in three months to propose a plan to reduce, optimize and control the costs of disability pensions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u568	But this is the next text. You are proposing the creation of a new § 48a which has not yet been reported. Wait. I put to the vote the unsupported proposals by the Commission by the MPs Kiril Dobrev and Maya Manolova, Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs for dropping § 48 by importer. They voted 111 MPs: 17 against 77, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. We will now vote on § 48 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 113 MPs: 98 against 11, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u569	Proposal from the MPs Radan Kanev and a group of MPs: A new § 48a shall be created with the following content: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Within three months of the entry into force of the Law, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Health introduce to the Council of Ministers a plan for reforming, optimizing and controlling disability pensions and/or state support for people with disabilities. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u570	We're listening, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u571	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to argue why this proposal is important. Because according to official data from the 2014 NSI report, the cost of disability pensions amounted to 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes If we compare the last 14 years, that is 6.5 times the increase of 244 million. lv. at 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes In addition, out of 99 379 pensions granted in 2014, 36 800 of them are for disability due to a general illness and over 3700 are for disability social pensions. Colleagues, that's 40%. Nearly half of the pensions allocated in 2014 are wheelchairs! This is a trend that has virtually no control. Why do we want the ministers to propose this plan within exactly three months? Because the budget is about to be prepared and we need to know whether we are going to reform the disability pensions, or whether we are going to put huge deficits in the NSI budget again. Second argument. About eight months ago, if I am not mistaken, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, on parliamentary questioning you replied that in a few days you will propose a solution to the problem first needed and then political, but in practice for these eight months nothing happened. I have personally asked you twice in the Commission whether this problem will have a solution. Your answer, of course, is that there will be. The ball is transferred between the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Health and the Bulgarian citizens pay hundreds of millions for this broken system. My proposal is also to colleagues from GERB: give the ministers an obligation in these three months to make this plan. Now we don't have to accept anything. To oblige them to make this plan within three months and propose changes that will lead to optimization of the system, and to stop hundreds of millions being drained from the budget down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u572	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Kanev and a group of Members of the National Assembly "The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 108 MPs: 14 against 34, 60 abstentions. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u573	Proposal by the MPs Hristo Gazhev and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 49 with the following text: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Within 6 months of the adoption of this Law, the Ministry of Defence should submit a proposal for legislative changes to art. 160 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria with a view to updating the age limit for military service with the provisions of this Law. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u574	Statements? I won't. It's a very strange text. We, who are entitled to a legislative initiative, are obliged by the Ministry of Defence to propose these changes. Why don't we offer them? Colleagues, under the Constitution, the MPs can do the same and it is nonsense in law to oblige the ministry to propose changes. Are there any speeches? I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 105 MPs: 11 against 30, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u575	Proposal from the MPs Kiril Dobrev and Maya Manolova: In Paragraph 49, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 2 to be The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Members of the National Assembly Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly " § 49 becomes § 8 and is amended as follows: ................................................................................... The Law shall enter into force from 1 January 2016 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 49, which shall become § 59: ............... 59................................................................... The law shall enter into force from 1 January 2016 with the exception of: 1. paragraph 2 concerning art. 4a, para. 3, p. 6 § 3, § 6 concerning Art. 6, para. 3, p. 10, § 7, t. 2 concerning the amendment in art. 9, para. 6, § 15, § 24, p. 5, § 29-34, § 45-49, § 52, § 53, § 54, p. 2 concerning the amendment in art. 40. para. 3, p. 9 which shall enter into force three days after its promulgation in the Official Journal. 2. paragraph 43, which shall enter into force 12 months after its promulgation in the Official Journal. 3. paragraph 55, which shall enter into force from 1 April 2015; 4. Paragraph 57, which shall enter into force from 17 July 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u576	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Dobrev and Mrs. Maya Manolova's motion to drop the item. 2 in § 49 "Unsupported by the Commission. They voted 103 MPs: 9 against 76, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for an unsupported proposal by Mrs. Ninova and a group of MPs. Voted 101 MPs: 9 against 75 abstentions 17. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 59 in the version of the Commission report. They voted 102 MPs: 91 against 11, no abstentions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u577	Thank you, Madam President. I would especially like to thank the importers, to thank my colleagues from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, from the National Insurance Institute, all MPs who participated in the discussion. I would especially like to thank the experts from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Svetlana Djankova, Marieta Stoyanova, referee Boryana Kapitanova, who have done their best so that you, the MPs, can accept these changes. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-28.u578	Due to the closure of the vote and the adoption of a second reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Security Code, I close the plenary session. "Tomorrow........................................................................................................ [[PHONE RINGING]]
