ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] By letter No 554-00-616 of 11 June 2015, on the basis of art. 82 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, importers Georgi Kovachev, Stefan Kenov, Hristo Todorov, Borislav Iglev, Rosen Petrov, Georgi Nedev, Rumen Yonchev and Svetlin Tanchev withdrew the bill for amendment and supplement of the Credit Institutions Act on 25 March 2015. Moving on to: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY LAWS FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODE OF THE TRUDA. We are going to vote on the amendments to the Labour Code in the last two days, and then we will move on to the envisaged for today as the first and second, respectively, draft decision on the extension period, in general, of the Committee on CCB; and the first vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Credit Institutions Act. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 454-01-5, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee proposes not to support the bill in the first vote. We vote. [[GERB's line.]] It's a question of place. Under the Bill of Mr. Siderov and a group of MPs, because they have four bills, only with the signature we cannot find out what it is about. The specific bill proposes to arrange for the protection of Bulgarian workers, who will have priority over all other citizens of other member states in the European Union. This is the bill. We vote. [[Noise and lines.]] I put to the vote the Bill of Mr. Siderov and a group of MPs, in which they propose to legally arrange for the protection of Bulgarian workers, who will have priority over all other citizens of other countries - members of the European Union. The leading Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee proposes not to support the bill in the first vote. They voted 141 MPs: 16 against 76, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. The next bill of Mr. Siderov and a group of MPs is to amend and supplement the Labour Code, No 454-01-16, which proposes to create guarantees through changes in the existing art. 245 to be paid in due time and to the full amount of wages paid in good faith by the worker or employee. The Commission proposes not to support this bill in the first vote. [[Replys from "Attacka."]] I can't hear from there. If you come to the microphone, I'll hear you well. They voted 143 MPs: 33, against 62, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. The third bill with importers Mr. Siderov and a group of MPs, No 454-01-19, also since 27 October 2014, is about changing the minimum wage, relevant, in short, with those of similar average minimum wage of the countries...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission proposes not to support the first vote and this bill. We vote. They voted 144 MPs: 20, against 62, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. The last bill, the fourth one, of Mr. Siderov and a group of MPs is No 454-01-20, with which they propose the status of teachers and low wages in the sector to be recognized by compensation for retirement with the number of salaries corresponding to the internship of years which they have earned. That's the quickest way to put it. The Commission proposes that the National Assembly should not support this bill in the first vote. Vote 152 MPs: 39, against 42, abstention 71. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a bill with importer Petar Kanev and a group of MPs from 6 February 2015 amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 554-01-24. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee proposes to the National Assembly to support the bill in the first vote. They voted 147 MPs: for 147, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. [[Applause.]] I put to the vote Draft No 554-01-67, submitted by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs on 1 April 2015. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee proposes not to support this bill in the first vote. This is for the April Uprising to be celebrated at the same time as May 1st. They voted 146 MPs: 30, against 43, abstention 73. The offer is not accepted. To re-vote Mr. Slavcho Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u2	Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! I propose a re-vote for two reasons. Many of us could not vote, and the proposal is quite meaningful and it should finally have a date on this great uprising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u3	Colleagues, re-vote the bill of Mr. Slavov and a group of MPs. They voted 153 MPs: 34 against 41, abstention 78. The offer is not accepted. The last Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code is No 502-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 May 2015. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee proposes the National Assembly to support the Draft of the Council of Ministers at first reading. Vote 152 MPs: for 151, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We're going to point one for today's program: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO APPROVATE THE PRESENTATION OF THE REPORT OF THE TEMPORARY ANCETAL COMMISSION ON THE FACTS AND ASSISTANCES RELATED TO THE ACTS OF STATE AUTHORITIES AND With the draft decision with importers Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs will introduce us to Mrs. Atanasova. The Project has received and signed motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the draft decision was proposed by representatives of all parliamentary groups of members of the Temporary Commission to examine the facts and circumstances related to the actions of state authorities and institutions which should have exercised control and countered the drain of the Corporate Commercial Bank for the period 2009 - 2014. During the Commission's hearings and overall activity, and in relation to the preparation of its report, a number of data have been established which are currently related to the activity or the available funds of various natural and legal persons. In order for all the data from our Commission's report to be disclosed, the amendments to the Credit Institutions Act should first be adopted. The next item in today's program of the National Assembly is precisely the change in the Law on Credit Institutions, which received approval yesterday by a huge majority in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Budget and Finance, which is why we believe that it is extremely important to extend the deadline for submitting the report for consideration in plenary and when it is examined there will be no danger of revealing banking secrecy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u5	You have offered our attention the draft decision on behalf of the importers. Are there any MPs who want to take a stand? There aren't any. We're closing the debate. I read the full content of the Project Decision: Project! DECISION extending the deadline for the submission of the report by the Temporary Committee for the Verification of the facts and circumstances relating to the actions of state authorities and institutions which should have exercised control and countered the draining of the Corporate Commercial Bank in the period 2009 - 2014 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 35 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall extend the deadline for the submission of the report by the Temporary Committee for the Verification of the facts and circumstances relating to the actions of state authorities and institutions which should have exercised control and countered the draining of the Corporate Commercial Bank in the period 2009 - 2014 until the promulgation and entry into force of the amendments and additions of the Credit Institutions Act. Please vote. They voted 146 MPs: 135 against 4, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Next item: The legal basis for the amendment and the application of the law on credit facilities. There is a link between the decision we have just adopted and this Bill. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance will offer to our attention Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u6	Thank you, Madam President. At its meeting held on 11 June 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the said Bill. The meeting was attended by Borislav Stratev a member of the Management Board of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, Lazar Iliev and Rosen Angelchev a Syndicates of Corporate Commercial Bank AD (in bankruptcy) and Biserka Bancheva a leading legal consultant in the Bulgarian National Bank. The bill was presented by the MP Desislava Atanasova. As a result of the activities of the Temporary Committee for the Verification of the facts and circumstances related to the actions of state authorities and institutions which should have exercised control and countered the draining of the Corporate Commercial Bank in the period 2009 - 2014 data have been established for natural and legal persons with deposits, accounts and credit provided in deviations from the conditions announced by the bank and for persons who have carried out the management transactions after placing the Bank under special supervision. The public's interest in this circle of individuals and political parties requires legal changes to create a legal basis for revealing the bank's secret to a bank in bankruptcy. In this sense, the proposed changes aim to disclose banking secrecy with regard to natural and legal persons and the amount of their deposits, loans and accounts to which privileged interest rates have been granted, the amount of deposits, accounts and loans to political parties and the persons under art. 2 of the Law on the publicity of the property of persons holding senior state and other positions and their families, as well as their related legal persons, advisory contracts, lease contracts and other compensation and grant contracts between the bank and the persons under art. 2 of the Law on the publicity of the property of persons holding senior state and other positions and their families. In addition, the Bankruptcy Act introduces a procedure for granting access to the data in the real-time gross settlement payment system under art. 103 of the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems of Temporary Syndicates, Syndicates, Members of the Governing Board of the Fund and persons with the necessary international experience in investigating bank defaults that carry out follow-up and retention and return actions in the bank's assets with which the bank has ordered in violation of the Law, good banking practices and/or where the given significantly exceeds what was received, as well as in the case of loans granted in case of insufficient or missing collateral or related persons, where such transactions or transactions have led to a deterioration of its financial situation. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, at first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Credit Institutions, No 554-01-109, submitted by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs on 3 June 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u7	Report from the Committee on Legal Affairs on First Voting. Mrs. Anna Alexandrova will present it to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u8	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Credit Institutions Act No 554-01-109, submitted by Desislava Valcheva Atanasova and a group of MPs on 3 June 2015. At its meeting on 11 June 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Credit Institutions Act, No 554-01-109, submitted by Desislava Valcheva Atanasova and a group of MPs on 3 June 2015. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova. The Law provides for a legal possibility, after the bankruptcy of a bank, to disclose banking secrecy in respect of the natural and legal persons who have been granted privileged interest rates or who have carried out authorising transactions, as well as the transfer of claims and intercepts after placing the bank under special supervision. The bank secrecy of deposits, accounts and loans of political parties and persons and their families under art. 2 of the Law on the publicity of the property of persons holding senior state and other positions, as well as of consultancy contracts, rental contracts and other compensation and grant contracts between the bank and their persons and their families holding senior state and other positions. The proposed changes introduce a procedure in the Law on Bankruptcy for providing access to data in the payment system for gross settlement in real time under art. 103 of the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems of Temporary Syndicates, Syndicates, Members of the Governing Council of the Fund and of persons with the necessary international experience in investigating bank defaults that carry out follow-up and retention and return actions in the bank's assets with which the bank has ordered in violation of the law, good banking practices or where the latter significantly exceeds what it received, as well as in the case of loans granted in case of insufficient or missing collateral or related persons, where such transactions or transactions have led to a deterioration of its financial situation. The motives of the Bill unite the opinion of all parliamentary groups that there should be a disclosure of bank secrecy about a bank in bankruptcy. This is required by the public interest to clarify the objective truth about deposits, accounts and loans to natural and legal persons, provided by way of deviation from the conditions announced by the bank. The discussion was attended by MPs Philip Popov, Danail Kirilov and Dessislava Atanasova. Mr. Popov voiced support for the proposed bill in order to ensure publicity and transparency in relation to transactions that concern the mass of insolvency. Mr. Kirilov emphasized that it is necessary to make a clear distinction between banking secrecy that protects information about the person concerned and classified information that keeps the state order. He noted that since the data on the financial and economic situation of the individual is personal data, it could be considered a possible withdrawal of the proposal to create para. 14 in art. 62 of the Credit Institutions Act. Mrs. Atanasova expressed the need to refine the deadline for reporting information by the Syndicates or the introduction of automation when announcing the information. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 11 votes for the European Parliament, without the opposition and the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Law amending and supplementing the Credit Institutions Act, No 554-01-109, submitted by Desislava Valcheva Atanasova and a group of MPs on 3 June 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. On behalf of the importers, the bill will be presented to us by Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I formally present the motives, colleagues, because any of my fellow Members of the Temporary Committee of inquiry could do so. As in the previous decision, we have reached a consensus in the Temporary Committee of inquiry and in the preparation of the amendments to the Credit Institutions Act, we are also unanimous. The amendments to the Credit Institutions Act come as a result of the activities of the Temporary Committee of inquiry relating to the actions of state authorities and institutions which should have exercised control and counteracted the draining of the Corporate Commercial Bank. Both in the previous decision and under this draft, the reasons concern the disclosure of the banking secret for all natural and legal persons falling under different assumptions, whether borrowers or depositarys. Until now, there is no legislation in force concerning the disclosure of facts and circumstances affecting the stocks and operations of the accounts, deposits and loans of clients of a bank in bankruptcy. The changes proposed by us aim to create precisely such an opportunity when a bank is declared bankrupt that banking secrecy may also be disclosed in respect of the natural and legal persons to whom privileged interest conditions have been granted, deposits, accounts and loans of different groups of persons, including members of political parties, related legal persons and related persons under the Law on the publicity of the property of persons holding senior state and other positions. In addition, the Bankruptcy Act is part of the Credit Institutions Act in its final provision with § 3, giving the opportunity to introduce a procedure for providing access to data in the real-time gross settlement payment system under art. 103 of the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems, both of the temporary and permanent arrangements, of the members of the Board of the Deposit Guarantee Fund and of persons with the necessary international experience in investigating bank defaults that carry out follow-up actions, and of preserving and repaying the bank's assets, as well as of the bank's assets with which it was ordered in breach of the law, of good banking practices, or where the act and given significantly exceeds what it received, as well as in the case of loans granted. I believe that the Temporary Committee of inquiry and its members, of which all are importers of this Bill, of all political parties will probably stand up to present and argue the support of the parties they represent, but I would like to say that this is yet another proof that we are all united around the fact that the truth about KTB should finally come out. I hope that this Bill will be approved by the many MPs, just as it happened in the Budget and Finance Committees and on legal issues at their meetings yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u11	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I close the debates and put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Credit Institutions Act, No 554-01-109, submitted by Desislava Valcheva Atanasova and a group of MPs on 3 June 2015. Please vote. Vote 114 MPs: 112 against 1, abstention 1. The bill amending and supplementing the Credit Institutions Act, No 554-01-109, submitted by Desislava Valcheva Atanasova and a group of MPs on 3 June 2015 was adopted in the first vote. Moving on to the next point in our program: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY LAWS FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CIVIL REGISTERATION. The first draft is by the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, which was submitted on 27 October 2014; the second draft was by Iliya Iliev and a group of MPs and was submitted on 28 November 2014; then there was the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015; the next draft, submitted by Maya Manolova and a group of MPs on 14 May 2015 and the last was by Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs, submitted on 28 May 2015. The report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government will introduce us to the President of the Commission, National Representative Nayden Zelenogorski. Mr. Zelenogorski, your Commission's report on Mr. Lutvi Mestan's Bill read it. The reports on the other bills follow.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 454-01-55, submitted by Ilija Iliev and a group of MPs At a regular meeting held on 11 December 2014, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 454-01-55, submitted by Ilija Iliev and a group of MPs on 28 November 2014. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Mr. Ilia Iliev. The Bill shall offer, exceptionally, in the civil registers instead of a permanent address, a temporary address which may be entered. The Commission is given an opinion by the Ministry of Interior which disagrees with the proposed Draft. The proposed text of the project does not specify which exceptions apply to the proposed hypothesis to replace the permanent address with the proposed office temporary address. In the course of the discussion, the speakers shared some of the reasons of the importers in which they stated the reasons for the proposed change, but among them there are different hypotheses which, in order to be able to apply the proposed change, must be described in the Law. However, the bill does not specify what these exceptions are and under what conditions they will apply. In addition, the notion of a service temporary address does not exist in the Law, but in the Law, except that the cases in which it is applied have not been regulated, and a legal definition of what it is and how it is determined is not proposed. In addition, the law does not deal with the concept of civil registers. It is not clear how the current address will be determined in such situations with a view to fulfilling the obligations under art. 90, para. 1 under which any person subject to civil registration under this Law is obliged to state in writing his permanent and current address, which must correspond to the address referred to in art. 89, para. 5. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote held, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 3 votes............................................................................ and 6 votes.................................................................................................................................................................. ♪ I can't believe on a Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 502-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 12 March 2015, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 502-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015. Mr. Ivan Asparuhov, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Mr. Ivan Getov, Director-General of the Directorate-General for Civic Registration and Administrative Service at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and representatives of civil organizations took part in the meeting of the committee. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Ivan Asparuhov. The draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Registration provides for changes to the current regulations in two main directions. The first part of the changes are drawn up on the basis of an initiative of a group of non-governmental organisations aimed at creating legal prerequisites to ensure the welfare of the stillborn children and, in particular, the regulation of drawing up a document allowing the funeral of these children. The current provisions of the law do not regulate the drawing up of a document which constitutes a permit for the burial of the stillborn children. The project provides for the copy-extract from the birth certificate of the dead child to be a burial permit, as well as the free issuance of the document. Under the provisions of the law, a copy of the birth certificate of a stillborn child may be issued only upon express request by a parent or a parent. The bill provides for a text according to which the transcript-extract from a death certificate may also be issued to third parties where necessary to carry out a funeral without requiring explicit authorisation by the heirs. This amendment is dictated by the fact that there are not few cases in which the heirs of a deceased person do not wish to engage in a funeral or the deceased has no heirs. In these cases, the funeral is organised by relatives or by officials in the municipal administration, who, however, under the current law, are not entitled to receive the document authorising the funeral. The second part of the changes contains provisions regulating the possibility of requesting a current address abroad. In accordance with art. 94, para. 3 of the law Bulgarian citizens, where the place of living is abroad, state as a current address the country in which they live. At the same time, the law does not specify the body to which an address may be requested abroad. With the addition of art. Article 96 and the amendment of Art. 96 99 The authority to which a current address may be requested abroad and the administration to which the address card for change of address is submitted shall be regulated. During the discussion, the speakers supported the proposed changes that fill the existing gap in legislation. Part of the Members of the National Assembly expressed reservations as regards the changes relating to the proposed regulation to state a current address abroad. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 10 votes for the Council of Ministers and 2 votes for the Council of Ministers, proposed to the National Assembly a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Civil Registration, No 502-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote. ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 554-01-90, submitted by Maya Manolova and a group of MPs and a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 554-01-106, submitted by Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs At a regular meeting held on 4 June 2015, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Draft Law supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 554-01-90, submitted by Maya Manolova and a group of MPs and a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 554-01-106, submitted by Naya Zelenogorski and a group of MPs. Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Ivan Asparuhov, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works and Mr. Ivan Getov, Director-General of the Directorate-General for Civic Registration and Administration at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works took part in the meeting. On behalf of the importers, the bills were presented by Mrs. Maya Manolova and Mr. Nayden Zelenogorski respectively. Both bills are aimed at clarifying and supplementing part of the provisions in force relating to the strengthening of the control for the identification of illegal registrations at a current and permanent address, including the establishment of a clear order for the submission of alerts for infringements, their examination and the removal of the committed infringements. It is given the possibility to carry out checks of the legality of address registrations, respectively for the deletion of those committed in violation of the law. A check may be carried out on an alert, at the request of the owner of the property or at the initiative of the mayor of the municipality. An obligation to carry out an official check on the registrations made in recent months, such as in the bill submitted by Maya Manolova and a group of MPs, is proposed to cover the period from 1 February to 30 April 2015 and in the bill submitted by Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs. It is proposed that all registrations which have been made in violation of the law be deleted and that the perpetrators are subject to a charge. The bill submitted by Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs provides the opportunity for the persons concerned to challenge the acts of the civil registration authorities before the relevant administrative court. Proposals have also been made to refine the provisions on the basis of which to determine the criteria for the number of persons who can be registered at one address. The bill submitted by Maya Manolova and a group of MPs proposed increasing the amount of sanctions for the violations of the law. During the discussion in the opinions presented by the Deputy Ministers of Interior and Regional Development and Public Works, the principle support for the amendments proposed in the draft laws was expressed, and concrete remarks and proposals were made on the two draft laws in order to correct and correct existing deficiencies by which to regulate the mechanism of interaction between the municipalities and the structures of the PROO in the resolution of infringements. Some of the MPs have expressed doubts that the proposed changes will solve the existing problems, not excluding the possibility of creating additional difficulties to vote in the upcoming local elections by those whose addresses will be deleted. The majority of the MPs who spoke supported the need to adopt the proposed drafts, noting that it is necessary, in conjunction with the representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Ministry of Interior, to clarify and supplement the proposed provisions, taking into account the comments and proposals made in the course of the discussion of the drafts. Based on the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government: - with 10 votes in favour, without the opposition and 2 votes in abstention, propose to the National Assembly that a Bill for Supplement to the Law on Civil Registration, No 554-01-90, submitted by Maya Manolova and a group of MPs, be adopted in the first vote; - with 10 votes in favour of the Council, without the opposition and 2 votes in abstention, proposes to the National Assembly a bill for amendment and supplement of the Civil Registration Act, No 554-01-106, submitted by Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Zelenogorski. With this in all the bills presented to your attention, the committee responsible has reported. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Kotseva. The report by the Committee on Regional Policy on the draft law of the Parliamentary Representative Lutvi Mestan is presented in plenary on 4 February 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u14	Thank you for the opportunity to make a procedural proposal for admission to the hall of Mr. Ivan Getov
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u15	Please vote on the proposal made. Vote 76 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 1. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will introduce you to Ms. Anna Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 502-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015. At its meeting held on 11 March 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 502-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Ivan Getov, Director of the Directorate General for Civic Registration and Administrative Service at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. The bill provides for the drawing up of a birth certificate for a stillborn child within 48 hours, governing the possibility of carrying out a funeral. There is also the possibility that the Death Act may also be issued to third parties who are not heirs of the deceased, where it is necessary to carry out a funeral. In addition, the current Bill regulates the body to which persons living abroad state the current address and the administration to which the address card for changing the address is submitted. During the discussion the People's Representative Philip Popov raised a question about the need to enter into force of the Law on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. In response Mr. Getov explained that he was looking for speed given the social need to regulate these social phenomena as soon as possible. As a result of the vote taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 502-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015, proposed to support a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Civil Registration, No 502-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u17	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Dr. Darin Dimitrov will introduce us with the report from the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u18	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 502-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015. At its regular meeting on 19 March 2015, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 502-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015. The meeting was attended by Dr. Petar Moskov, Minister of Health, Deputy Minister of Health, Dr. Vanyo Sharkov, Dr. Adam Persenski and Dr. Boyko Penkov, Mr. Ivan Getov, Director-General of the Directorate-General for Civic Registration and Administration at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, representatives of the word, patient and non-governmental organizations in the field of health. On behalf of the importer, the Bill and the reasons for it were presented by Mr. Ivan Getov, Director-General of the Directorate-General for Civic Registration and Administrative Service at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. He noted that the Bill aims to regulate the drawing up of a document that constitutes a permit for the burial of the stillborn children. This is intended to be the copy-extract from the birth certificate of a stillborn child to be issued free of charge within 48 hours of birth. Mr. Getov emphasized that there is no uniform practice in Europe in this regard. Depending on the legislation of different countries, different measures are taken in this regard, but everywhere it is possible to bury the stillborn children. The Bill also includes provisions on the possibility of issuing a copy of the death certificate to third parties who are not the heirs of the deceased and without explicit authorisation where necessary for the execution of a funeral. In addition, the proposed amendments and additions to the Civil Registration Act regulate the body to which persons living abroad may state a current address and the administration to which the address card for changing the address is submitted. On behalf of the Ministry of Health, Dr. Petar Moskov, Minister of Health, expressed a positive opinion stressing that the Ministry of Health is the initiator of this debate and strongly supports the presented bill. In the course of the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health expressed positive opinions in support of the bill, which will establish a regulatory regime regarding the issuance of a document for the burial of stillborn children in Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion held and as a result of the vote held on the following results, the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Registration, No 502-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u19	Thank you, Dr. Dimitrov. As we have already mentioned to you, the report of the Committees on the Draft Law of Mr. Mestan and a group of MPs was presented on 4 February. The same bill was then presented on behalf of the importers. Speech has been made, but it is nevertheless agreed that the groups now have the full amount of their speaking time. Therefore, let me remind you of this: GERB is due 30 minutes, BSP is due 18, DPS On behalf of the importers then, as I said, Mr. Mestan presented his bill. Now the other importers have the floor. Any of the importers on the bill? Mr. Iliev? If you want to take them in a row? Here you go, Mr. Iliev. Then she said she wanted Mrs. Manolova and surely Mr. Zelenogorski, perhaps.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, after many meetings of us on the territory of the country with Bulgarian citizens, mainly from districts with mixed populations, we have found that thousands of citizens live in many cities in the territory of the country without real address registration and identity documents due to the removal of residential buildings by the municipal authorities in which they lived and were registered. There are hundreds of examples on the territory of the country in different districts and municipalities in which the local authorities unconstitutionally remove and delete residential buildings in which Bulgarian citizens are accommodated and addressed. As a result of this factology, victims are forced to look for an address for relatives, acquaintances and relatives, which leads to the accumulation of a huge number of people, registered at the same address that they don't really live at. As a result of the above circumstances, the mayors have de facto removed the residential buildings and deleted the address registrations. People are forced to register the same, only 200 to 300 people at the same address. There are thousands of such cases throughout the country. In our opinion, it is unacceptable, for example, in a one-storey house or apartment, that the municipality register 200-300 people as a standard in the European Union is provided for a minimum of 13 sq. It's a living area for one person to live in. Is this not a clear and conscious exit from an awkward situation by the municipal authorities precisely because we do not have a law and regulation governing the actions of the municipal authorities, in such cases being in the interest of society and statehood? Leaving these people on the street and without a roof by the municipal authorities makes them illegal to any state institutions and this leads to violation of basic human rights, such as a doctor's examination, even emergency assistance, application for work, providing education for their children, inability to receive any correspondence, deprivation of their right to free movement in the country and beyond, which is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria: Art. 1. All people are born free and equal in dignity and rights. Art. 35. (1) Everyone shall have the right to freely choose their place of residence, to move within the territory of the country and beyond its borders. As a result, there is a tendency to increase citizens without documents and without an address registration in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. This is also a prerequisite for committing multiple crimes, some of which are impossible to track by law enforcement authorities precisely due to the lack of identity of the alleged perpetrator. Given the above facts, I consider this a prerequisite for a threat, including the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. In view of this and in order to reduce the likelihood of abuse of a domestic, economic, social and criminal nature, I consider it extremely necessary to amend the Civil Registration Act. Honourable Members, these are the reasons that we presented mainly to the committees when we reported the bill. Firstly, I would like to thank all my fellow Members in the Commission, who supported the proposed bill, as well as to thank my fellow Members who voted abstention, because abstention in my opinion means that you agree, but in this case, most likely for political reasons, you cannot support the relevant bill. In general, the Bill has a very serious logic. We are all witnessing subsequently, including the situation that has developed in the last weeks in Garmen, however unpleasant it is to recall it, is a clear and clear example that we need a change in the Civil Registration Act. We proposed a change in the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents and in the Law on Municipal Property, through which together, in a package with this law, we propose a solution to this problem with the accumulation of 200, 300 and more people at the same address. We are therefore lawmakers here to solve people's problems. We must not let the problem weigh on the municipal authorities because the municipality, registering 200, 300 people at one address, de facto violates the law. He violates it because there is no other member of this law or anyone who gives them legal grounds to register them. With the proposal that we make, in addition to a permanent and current address, in the Law to include a business address, the idea is to have exactly those people who neither have a lease contract in the buildings where they live nor have a property document. Well, what are they, then?! In fact, after the mayor registers them, he violates the law. The administration itself violates the Law and there is no legal point to invoke to be registered. Our idea as a whole is that if a separate file shop is created in the administration with a business address, it will be exactly the people who live in illegal buildings inherited for decades. There are registered de facto by 200, 300 people from the municipality and in general the administration violates the law. Colleagues, we need to change this law. The fact that there are more proposals from both another parliamentary group and the Council of Ministers, including, means that the Law needs a change. We can change some things. I would be very happy if now the Law was passed at first reading and then with more colleagues who would include ideas and suggestions, we can add further additions and clarification under the Law so as to be in the interest of society.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u21	Thank you, Mr. Iliev, for presenting your bill on behalf of the importer. The next bill was submitted by the Council of Ministers. The reports of the committees were presented. Mrs. Manolova, you have the floor to present on behalf of the importer your bill submitted on 5 June 2015. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u22	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! The reason for the introduction of the BSP law left Bulgaria is the mass migration of voters from the beginning of this year until the end of April. Two hundred thousand people have changed their current address in just four months against 50 thousand. souls for the same period over the past year, and in a trend that is opposite to the usual, opposite to the logical one, namely from the center to the periphery and from the big cities to the small municipalities. Surely this mass migration of citizens is not linked to the government's programme to combat depopulation not only because such an element in GERB's management program in its 200 pages is not, but also because this migration is ultimately only virtual. Newly populated citizens don't really live at their new addresses. They will appear there on the 25th of October, when they will vote in the upcoming local elections. Moreover, each of us realizes that 200, 300, 500 voters in a municipality of 1000, 2000 or 3000 people will definitely decide the outcome of the vote and tilt the scales for the benefit of one candidate or another, meaning they will completely manipulate the final election results. Those are safe voices. These are people who don't need to pave the streets, fill holes, fight street dogs, solve any problems of theirs. You don't have to campaign, convince them, introduce platforms to one candidate or another. It is clear that they have moved against 30, 50 or 100 BGN, to exercise their right to vote and thus to change the election result in any small Bulgarian municipality. Here it will be fair to make two important clarifications. Firstly, this is not a party issue, because with such manipulation of elections through resettlement of voters, mayors and candidates for mayors of all colors are engaged. In this process are involved at local levels all political plants, so there is no way to say that one or another political force has taken a championship in this manipulation, just everyone involved. Secondly, this mass resettlement, the migration of voters is carried out entirely in violation of the Law. Yes, it was changed during the management of GERB and with our participation. The law is good, but no law is made in view of future possible abuses of it. Newly settled voters 40-50 in a barn, 20 30 in a hallway room, 100 on empty terrain, have definitely relocated... [[National Representative Kiril Dobrev spoke with MPs from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u23	Mr. Dobrev, lower your voice! Respect your colleague on the stand! Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u24	Thanks, but if you don't interrupt me, it'll be better.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u25	In your favor, I'm doing it. Sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u26	Newly populated voters do indeed violate the Law with regard to the requirement of a certain number of residents at a given address, and also with the very fact that this address reflects the place, the address where a citizen lives. It is certainly not about living voters, but about moving them, resettlement, resettlement, accommodation in view of the upcoming local elections. With the bill we've introduced with our colleagues, we're offering a few things. First of all, the possibility to carry out checks on the legality of registrations carried out, such as both on an alert and on an official basis, and at the request of the owner. The current Law or, more precisely, the coup d'état interpretation of the Act in force enables the employees of GRA to deny even the owner of a property information on how many people have settled at his address under the fair assumption that they will thus violate the Personal Data Act. There are cases of lawmakers who explained to me that they were trying to verify how many people were registered at their address and eventually received the unshakable refusal of the mayor or of the staff member that this was information that they could not provide them. In my opinion, however, since citizens do not have accurate information in which collapsed house, barn or uninhabited area are overcrowded voters, there should be an opportunity to carry out a formal check of the new registrations, which should be in a period from 1 January to 30 April or from 1 February to 30 April............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Those who meet the legal requirements will, of course, retain their registrations, but those who have broken the Law by settling specifically for the local elections six months before the local vote simply to be deregistered. In fact, this is the most important element in the bill that we have tabled, because currently the procedure for annulment of registration in the Civil Registration Act does not exist. And all checks carried out by the prosecution, in practice it cannot cover all 100,000 newly populated citizens, are done where there are the most signals, selective, at the insistence of political plants and there is no mechanism by which violations can be effectively removed by deregistered new voters. That is why we propose that there should be official de-registered after it to follow sanctions for those who have broken the Law in sizes that will be adopted by the Bulgarian Parliament. We also propose that mayors should be obliged to make public the new registrations in this period from 1 February to 30 April so that people can draw conclusions as to which addresses there is a transfer of new voters. I'm not going into any more detail. The bill is in front of you. I expect there to be support and it will become a reality as soon as possible, because the adoption of amendments to the Civil Registration Act will be a sign to the Bulgarian citizens that it makes sense to vote in the upcoming elections, that both ruling and opposition, and the executive power, and the National Assembly have united in the effort to make elections more honest and really make sense for people to vote. Otherwise, where there are 300 new voters, 500 others simply have no reason to walk on October 25th. I thank the MPs from all the parliamentary groups who supported me at the Regional Commission meeting. I would like to recall that Prime Minister Borisov supported the bill submitted by us during the parliamentary blitz control, but for now I will refrain from giving thanks so as not to jinx the way of the Law until its final exit from the plenary. Moreover, I recently thanked Mr. Tsvetanov for the support of the GERB Parliamentary Group under the Law on Private Judicial Contractors and then it turned out that there was nothing to thank him for, because all the amendments to the Law on Private Judicial Contractors and the banks were rejected by the MPs from the parliamentary majority during the discussion at second reading of this Law. I hope that the Civil Registration Act will have another destiny, because, once again, it is not a party matter. The issue is about the honesty of the upcoming local elections, and I appeal to the MPs of all parliamentary forces to vote for the vote on 25 October to be a little more honest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u27	And thank you, Mrs. Manolova. The next bill was tabled by Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs. On behalf of the importers, Mr. Petar Slavov, you are welcome to argue the draft on behalf of the importer. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the bill that we have tabled with colleagues from the Reformation Bloc and the Patriotic Front concerns this very serious problem of electoral tourism and seeks a lasting solution to stop these extremely vicious practices which, in addition to leading to abuse and lasting disgust of our compatriots from really exercising their right to vote and saying that in such situations it is pointless to vote. What we have tried to propose is, firstly, an effective mechanism for controlling the respective municipal administration, over the mayors, and I see that this is not present in the other bill. As our concept and approach is as follows: if a mayor or a municipal administration, obviously in violation of the Law, allows such registrations, as there is now some regulation in the Law that such endless registrations at a single address are not admissible, it is slightly naive to expect that by imposing them with a specific text in the Law, they will suddenly start observing it after they have not respected it, and will become extremely precise. So we provide for these acts, which they, in the context of alerting whether there are a hundred people recorded in a boxer and so on, issue, will be able to be controlled in court, and of course, this control must be very fast and effective in order to make sense. So we've also thought about it, it's going to be one-instant and it has to evolve within about a month to make sense of it. We have provided for something else, to which colleagues from the Patriotic Front paid particular attention to the fact that hotels, hostels, so-called temporary accommodation sites are widely abused and thousands of people are accommodated. Particularly disturbing was the case of Nessebar, which you have all heard in recent days and in the media. There were talk of 8,000 people, if memory serves, who can safely predict the outcome of the vote in this municipality. So clearly there was also provided for the possibility to register at a hotel or accommodation at a current address, not to be used for abuse and electoral tourism, while respecting the upcoming tourist season. That is, a sufficient period is given for such places as hoteliers or people working in this sector to be accommodated without, of course, limiting them and interfering with the season. So we've been trying to think about both of these things. Of course, first of all, it is important to be able to verify, since, as has been said, signals are often not being checked and there are refusals by the administration to carry them out. Therefore, it is explicitly given the opportunity to carry out an inspection by the authorities on the basis of which an examination is then carried out by a specific administrative act subject to ex post control. In other words, what I started with is if an administration has been dishonest and has allowed such practices to be controlled and things to be put in accordance with the Law. The last thing I'm going to finish with is that we've been trying to figure out what it means at a given address to be able to live normally defined people, because there was a gap in the Law at the moment and it wasn't clear. There was a subjective interpretation of whether, for example, a hundred people are eligible to register in a three-bedroom apartment and whether they obviously, since they may not be able to stand in this apartment, how they will coexist. Apparently, some mayors on the ground thought it was possible. So we have borrowed from some existing regulations on municipal accommodation, the criterion for how many, figuratively speaking, square meters of living area are needed by a person to really live a normal life as a minimum. That's what we've been reciting in our proposed changes. Of course, whether we are a greater opportunity for relatives in a straight line, in a matchmaking, in a serb line, who live in a common household, to live together and not limit them, as we know that there are multi-member families who practically forced by the circumstances, live in this way. And this has nothing to do with election tourism. In short, I think that's what you can say. I also rely on common support, as these are pressing changes and perhaps should have been adopted a long time ago, but better later than even later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u29	Thank you, Mr. Slavov, with which the presentation of the five bills is over. I'm opening the debate on the five bills in parallel. Please speeches, honourable Members! Mr. Dobromir Prodanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u30	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! GERB's parliamentary group will support three of the bills presented today to supplement and amend the Civil Registration Act. First of all, we will support the Law of the Council of Ministers. This project aims to regulate the drawing up of a document, which is a solution to the funeral of stillborn children, a painful and painful question, but 600 such cases of stillborn children are available annually in Bulgaria. The gap currently present in the regulation does not provide for a document allowing a stillborn child to be buried. This omission, in addition to regulating and treating stillborn children as biological waste, inevitably enhances the trauma and stress of parents when such an event occurs, and creates a series of difficulties for both relatives and institutions and hospitals. The proposed change fills this gap in the Law and solves a matter which inevitably also represents a matter of great public importance. Apart from the above amendment, the Council of Ministers' proposal also proposes regulation of the possibility of announcing a current address abroad, as there are currently no provisions in the Law determining the relevant authority to which it can be applied abroad, and this inevitably creates a lot of difficulties for citizens to do so. With the specific proposal with the inclusion of a supplementary text in art. 96, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 99 This opportunity is regulated for Bulgarian citizens abroad to state their current address to the municipalities at their permanent address. The proposed changes specify the procedure for carrying out the address registration and avoid the difficulties of some of the Bulgarian citizens in fulfilling their obligation within 30 days to declare a change of their address. Secondly, the GERB group will support the bills for amendment and supplement of the Civil Registration Act with importers Maya Manolova and a group of MPs and Mr. Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs. Issues with suspicious, suspicious, mass and targeted address registrations in certain settlements and especially before elections not only wide public interest, inconvenience, but also a taste of injustice remains, while creating serious problems and showing the imperfection of the Civil Registration Act in its section on address registration. We welcome the initiative of the importers also here, and now is the time to clearly show the desire of all parliamentary forces to solve this problem once and for all, and to stop these targeted and mass registrations in individual settlements, to stop and eliminate the possibilities for abuse of the current provisions that inevitably affect and in places even resolve election results in individual settlements. As we have also stated in the committees, in the GERB Parliamentary Group we are also ready with specific texts of the amendments under discussion and we will actively participate with proposals between first and second readings. We believe that this will also be done by all parliamentary represented forces, hoping to avoid party speaking and misuse of political statements, and to direct all energy and efforts towards adopting the best version of the amendments to the Law. However, here is the time to say that changes in the name of changes are not only needed, but real changes are needed. Both bills, although seemingly complementary, believe that they do not lead to a complete solution and resolution of the problem to the fullest extent. The discussions held in the committees, the debates in them have shown that there are questions that should find their answers 92, para. 8 of the Law; answers on the offer of automatic deletion of registration, i.e. with what registration will be left for those persons who are automatically deprived of the unlawful registration, the person will return to his previous registration, will it be obliged to state a new address, what will this new address be; answers on what maximum and detailed definition we will give to the notion of a deleted registration. Ladies and gentlemen, there are actually many issues that need to be resolved and, as we are at first reading, we should discuss and focus on the philosophy of the proposed bills. Let us not deepen ourselves in separate texts, in their precision. If we want to refine the texts, if we want to suspend the vicious and contrary registrations, if we want to guarantee people honesty and justice, let us support these two bills of colleagues and between first and second reading to be active with good proposals to give the best legal framework. However, let us also listen to the opinion of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, especially to colleagues from the Grao Directorate. If we want to ensure a working change for the upcoming 25 October elections, we must act, as they said, very quickly, so that the necessary changes can be made, that the checks we have requested and that all the consequences of this action can be realised, respectively. Thank you for your attention and I hope you will support the proposed bills of colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u31	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Replies to Mr. Prodanov's statement? I can't see. Mrs. Manolova, you want a procedure on the edge of time for rest. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u32	Dear colleagues! Mr. Chairman, my procedure, which is on the verge of a parliamentary break, is precisely related to the parliamentary rest. My fellow Members, I propose that we extend the plenary sitting to discuss the submitted draft amendments to the Civil Registration Act until their vote in plenary, which I suppose will take place within the next half hour at most. Given the fact that several bills have been tabled, there is a procedure for their integration into a joint bill, if, of course, they are supported, then a proposal between first and second reading. We have heard that all parliamentary groups will do so, and until the final adoption of the texts will pass a sufficiently long period of time. On the other hand, if we want to be effective and prevent the abuse of voter migration before the elections, if we want, figuratively speaking, to move the ant houses in a timely manner, so that they cannot change the outcome of the vote, we need to make the changes urgently. Therefore, I suggest that we work for another half hour during the parliamentary break, vote on the bills, so that we can provide them to the GRAO and the mayors, as well as the other enforcement services in sufficient time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. I understand your offer. A reverse opinion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I think we are all aware that we are looking at five bills that are very important. If, within 30 minutes, we are going to solve the migration issue if, within 30 minutes, we are going to decide those rules by which we want to put in place an election order, rules to determine how and how people will be registered, or broken down, houses, if within 20 to 30 minutes today we are going to determine which people will vote and which people will be deleted, I think it is very unserious, Mrs. Manolova. Very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, Therefore, given the two bills, or the three of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we will fill our time at least 30 minutes, I think they are so, so, colleagues, let us enter on Tuesday or Wednesday at a regular meeting and normally discuss all those rules that are needed to finally make the right decisions, the best electoral rules and rules for people to be registered with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u35	Thank you, Mr. Atalay, for your feedback. My fellow Members, I am voting on Mrs Manolova's procedural proposal to continue with the debates on the bill until the final vote on the proposed bills. [[Reply from GERB: "Twenty minutes. "]] No, she said by the end of the bill. Please, honourable Members, vote. Vote 117 MPs: 64, against 24, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. Re-vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u36	Mr President, honourable Members, and colleagues are currently entering the Chamber. I'm asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u37	We are revising Mrs. Manolova's procedural proposal to extend the debate time on the bill. Please, honourable Members, vote. They voted 132 MPs: 92, against 20, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. We'll continue the debate. Please, speeches. Are there any further comments? Mr. Iliev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, the fact that we have so many proposals for a change in this Bill means that there is really a lot of work on it and we all need to be very responsible in general in dealing with it. It is clear that this Law concerns many Bulgarian citizens and can affect an awful lot of human fates. I would like to ask all Members to be responsible, to take this seriously and to forget the political bias in the proposals so made. The bill, which Mrs Manolova submitted, generally believes that there is logic in it, but not in this way. Why? Because the mayor who sets up the committee to determine who should be deleted as an address registration and who shouldn't, may decide that those who don't vote for him will de-registered them, so that a conflict of interest can become here. In general, in view of what has happened in the last weeks in Garmen, we are adamant that there is a need for such a change, Mrs Manolova, but we need to think about it more specifically and in more detail in the direction so that it does not become a conflict of interest by local authorities, especially around the elections. We will, of course, make our proposals between first and second readings. Without the change we are proposing for introduction and at a business address, we believe that such a change that you are proposing will definitely confuse the Law further and will lead to an approach by local authorities where the mayor in the respective municipality may have some personal bias in making specific decisions, because, you know, the deletion of an address registration will mainly be directed to people of Roma origin and to the neighborhoods with mixed populations. There, many of the people are low-letter, cannot defend their rights and interests under the Law and the Constitution, and this can lead to abuse by the mayors. I would ask you one more thing, Mrs. Manolova: why could there be an official deregistered, and why shouldn't there be an official registered, as we suggest? All these issues, in our opinion, are yet to be debated and we need to discuss them in the interest of the whole society and, above all, as preventive measures, not to allow cases like Garmen, to have tensions in individual municipalities and territories of the country. The problems with the address registrations aren't now. They've been hereditary for decades. And if we, this National Assembly, do not make the right decision to solve this problem, it will be absolutely shameful and disgraceful to us, I would say. The problem is serious and we all need to take this bill very responsibly. Regarding the bill submitted by the Council of Ministers, by the DPS Parliamentary Group as a whole, we support it. We will make our proposals between first and second readings and debate on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u39	Thank you, Mr. Iliev. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u40	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to state the firm position of the Patriotic Front in terms of supporting legislative measures to end the so-called 'election tourism'. This is one of the extremely ugly phenomena of Bulgarian democracy, which unfortunately, as well as other ugly phenomena began to grow. It is true that the influence in the small settlements of such registrations for election results is greater and there the issue is more sensitive, but we must give a general solution for all municipalities. In this spirit, we will support the two bills in this direction. We will also support the Law of the Council of Ministers. There is no option to support the DPS Bill due to the fact that this is yet another play with the revival process. I do not know why, after a quarter of a century, exploitation of this topic continues to refer only to it and justify their existence only with it. I think the deceased have at least already appeared before their god with their name, which was impersonally inherent, not with some address registration. In this spirit, we will not support these two bills. We call on all our colleagues to find a common language for the eradication of the phenomenon of selected tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u41	First line, Mr. Slavcho Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u42	Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Veselinov, with all due respect to you, allow me to disagree with part of your statement. It is not true that the great migration of the people takes place only in small villages. I'll give you an example with Plovdiv. More than 2500 people registered this year from January to March compared to the last 5 years in Plovdiv. Look at the stats! I would remind you that only in 2011 the difference between the first and the second in Plovdiv was 2000 votes. That was the price of the mayor's seat in Plovdiv 2000 votes! So this isn't just about small settlements. Great migration of nations is also done in large cities. It is therefore extremely important that this Bill be voted on! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u43	Second line? I won't. Would you like to use the back, Mr. Vesselinoff? No. There's a word for it, Mr. Ruchen Riza.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u44	Madam President, honourable Members! We are constantly receiving signals from Bulgarian citizens with Turkish-Arab names that during their administrative service and in particular when issuing certificates and copies of civil status certificates, they are quite often asked by the employees to tell them what their Bulgarian names are. The Bulgarian names, which were replaced forcefully in 1984 with tanks and weapons and not voluntarily, following this change of names in 1989, more than 400 thousand people left Bulgaria, we consider it absolutely unacceptable and affecting the conscience and feeling of the citizens to require them to communicate in written or oral form personal data which the official concerned can obtain through his access to the Esgraon. In order to cross such ineligible and unlawful practices, we propose once and for all to be removed from the Esgraun forcibly imposed during the so-called revival process the names of these Bulgarian citizens, as well as to introduce an explicit ban on such data being required by civil servants. Very often we witness cases when even gloating people wonder what their previous names were. Even more so for the people who have died, they need to change their names. Under current legislation, the person who wants to regain his name, let him recover it, not accept the opposite premise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u45	First line, Mr. Julian Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Here's my line. I wonder how long, ladies and gentlemen of the DPS, you will be exploiting the subject of the revival process. Everyone knows what happened back then. It is clear to everyone that what was done in the Bulgarian state was not right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u47	Let's restore the law!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u48	Perhaps to some extent, the current members of the DPS have participated in the same process. Then we, from the Patriotic Front, propose and we will submit it as a bill to restore the Bulgarian names of all Bulgarians who have been turned in during the Turkish slavery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u49	Second line? I won't. It's a hole, Mr. Shirt.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u50	Colleagues themselves admit that a violent change of names is a mistake. Let's fix this mistake. What's the holdup?! In 25 years of democracy, this error is still repeated and allegedly caused the existence of this DPS. Let's vote on it! [[Reply from MP Julian Angelov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u51	Mr. Dimitar Bayraktarov has the floor of speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I didn't mean to say anything, but when... [[Reply.]] Control your emotions, comrade Kirilov! However, when the bones of the dead are dug into and it is not explained what is the technology in which they will contact the dead to change their names, I think that we cannot be idle in something that is religiously sacrilegious, unfulfilled, at the very least cynical to require the people's representatives on a professional basis to change the names of the deceased. Colleagues, we cannot be indifferent to something that is being offered here in some extremely cynical way. We can't go through the bones of the dead. We've already discussed this, and you're still trying to pin it on us almost guilty of now that someone has decided to turn the dead... What if one of these dead people wants to have some Buddhist name, have a Jewish name, how would you decide? [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] It really is a very serious matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u53	The line is Mrs. Ahmedova. You appear to be a couple with Mr. Bayraktarov, I hope the line is correct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u54	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear colleague Bajraktarov, as always you have not understood what this is about. We don't want to change the names, we want to restore the names that were before these people died. I can give you an example: my grandmother died 90 years old in 1986. She died with a Bulgarian name. On her grave, we had to write a name that neither her parents gave her, nor until her 90s, she had that name. Is it right that there should be a cardboard in the City at the moment, writing its real name, and with a red pen a Bulgarian name is written on it? Is it okay to keep it that way? Is that right? In our opinion, this is not right, and that is why we are proposing the Bill. But who should read it, who should think about it, and who should know what they're doing?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u55	Second line? I won't. The hole is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u56	Madam President, my coat will be very brief, subject to the wisdom of the people: God forbid blindly see!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u57	Go ahead, Mr. Imamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u58	Madam President, honourable Members, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I propose 30 minutes. rest according to art. 61, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u59	I'm calling a break till 11.10. At 11.10 we are in plenary and continue with the debates on the draft laws under discussion. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u60	Colleagues, the meeting is ongoing. Are there any other MPs who wish to take part in the debate? Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we are looking at five bills. I would like to say that out of these bills the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support the bill submitted by the Council of Ministers. My fellow Members, just half an hour ago, I took the liberty of saying that the other bills are very important in terms of restoring justice. A bill which has been tabled by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in connection with the recovery of the names not only of the deceased, but to be deleted in the registers and those Bulgarian names which were not adopted by those citizens who were forced into force during the revival process. My fellow Members, I am convinced that the majority, even all of the Members present in this House, agree with this justice. With the adoption of the law in 1992, the first attempt was made to recover, and subsequently the name of the Red or Black Pen was left in the City. It is very unpleasant when a Bulgarian citizen, entering the institutions in Bulgaria, is required or asked: Colleagues, I am convinced that the feeling you would feel if you were asked what your other name is will also make you submit one such bill to restore that justice and self-esteem of Bulgarian citizens. I believe that, under this bill, all political forces will make it possible and support the Bill tabled by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. As for the bill submitted by Mr. Ilia Iliev and a group of MPs from the point of view of registration, honourable Members, we are trying to restore some rules on the basis of which to make the institutions, especially the GRAO and the Ministry of Interior, register and know which Bulgarian citizens whose houses have been broken down, where they will be registered once they have no place to live. Our proposals, honourable Members, are that they should be registered in a professional capacity. Notice, if there is any omission, we are ready after adopting the Bill at first reading, between first and second reading to give a definition of what a service registration is and let's say where to register these people who have their houses torn down. Because at the moment, after their houses have been demolished and the registration of 200 or 300 people at one address is extremely unacceptable, as Mrs. Manolova suggests, that since they are temporarily going to register for the electoral migration of 200-300 people in one place, it is also unacceptable that after their housing buildings are demolished, we do not know where these people will be registered. If they don't have registration, they can't use any services, they can't get benefits, they can't even go to a doctor. I believe that with these several arguments both GERB and the other political forces will do their best to support this Bill, which proposes the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. I would like to say a few words about Mrs. Maya Manolova's Bill and the bill proposed by the Reformation Block. Honourable Members, these bills are still in its very creation not working. They do not have criteria on the basis of which we will give the mayors or the municipal administration and these committees the basis of which to delete those citizens who have registered, respecting the Election Law and registration laws. We have created this law here together, fellow Members. We have said that 6 months before that everyone has the right to register at a current address where they consider well. If at the moment we find that we only have a migration in connection with the elections, then why did we write in the Law of Elections the majority principle of election of a mayor or whoever was running for office in these elections? I repeat, Mr. Iliev, they can't be registered here in a professional capacity, but citizens can be expunged. By erasing them officially, we increase the number or the people who are going to get on the ban list. Dear colleagues, in the previous elections we have 750 thousand. citizens who have been deprived of the right to vote because they are on the prohibition list. With this deletion is expected about 200,000, which will be deleted because they have legally registered in another settlement. That's why we want there to be criteria. You have no criteria in these bills. If it is European in principle per square meter a citizen should be registered, there is no such requirement in these bills! Mrs. Manolova's bill says that since these people are registered at the current address, notice, we want them to even be announced on an official list and publicly explain how who and where they have registered. And in the reformers' bill, there are one wishes: usually placed in one dwelling, the registration of the current address on the second line may exceed two or three times. What if a family is of 12 members, accommodated in a garsonier with a double increase of 36 people, how will they live and how will they be registered in a garsonier? My request is, honourable Members, if we pass these laws, they will only be for the introduction of the MPs...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u62	You're gonna have to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u63	...that the MPs have made... We will do something that the MPs have been very concerned about in connection with migration, but we will de facto not solve any problem of registration or migration problem, because if we make the ban list close to 1 million, then you are against the President's referendum, because he will not be able to achieve 50% plus one because one million citizens will not have the right to vote. I told you about the majority principle. I told you, and we didn't enjoy it when Mr. Vejdi Rashidov took 30 buses to Kardzhali and became a MP, but the laws were then so. And Mr. Vejdi Rashidov became the MP. If Mr. Vejdi Rashidov hadn't come in from Kardzhali, then Mrs. Karayancheva wouldn't be in parliament today. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u64	Mr. Atalay!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u65	But you see that we, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, do not mind, we only want to create rules and by these rules the citizens of Bulgaria to be able to register and participate, to respect their electoral right, to be able to participate in elections, and to those who have illegally built houses and have their houses torn down, to give them an opportunity to be registered in office. Since these bills do not solve matters, they do not create rules, but, on the contrary, they will confuse and create difficulties, I suggest that we do not support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u66	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Colleagues, I'm making a procedural proposal as we entered the time of parliamentary control by half an hour. Ministers are calling and they're wondering when the time will come to answer. I call on the majority not to be blamed by the opposition for sabotaging Friday's control, please support the procedural proposal, which I will make on the grounds of art. 52, para. 2, p. 4 to postpone the debate on Wednesday. This is the first regular meeting on 17 June. We will not be delayed, the laws will be passed, but we are failing parliamentary control. The time of the parliamentary groups is extended and there is still much time at their disposal. We're practically deprecating today's Friday's control. Here's your offer back, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u67	Honourable Members, Madam President! Sometimes no less important than the adoption of a law is the time of its adoption. Once again, I would like to stress that the bill that we have tabled is in no way party and does not contain an accusation against any party that is abusing the election of voters associated with the local vote. On the contrary, representatives of all political forces, candidates of all political forces, are involved in this outrage. I think it is a matter of general will of parliament to say that we want the elections to be a little more honest and that it makes sense for people to vote. If we don't put an end to the anthills of voters who have moved into their new settlements to change the vote, really many people will not vote. So I appeal, I hope the intention to postpone the vote is not another elaborate scheme to reject the bill of our parliamentary group and the bill of the Reformation bloc. Furthermore, speed is really important if we want the law to be applied and those who have illegally registered to participate in local elections have enough time to cancel their registrations. We will not support the request for a continuance. If it is accepted by the majority, I ask that the vote be taken on Wednesday, and I ask that, after all, the political conscience and correctness of those who have made the commitment to support these bills prevail over the conjunctural political accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova, for supporting my idea of the vote on Wednesday. Voting regime for the procedural proposal to postpone the debate and vote on Wednesday. Vote 120 MPs: 103, against 7, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. One message before control. On 12 June 2015, a general draft of the bills amending and supplementing the Labour Code adopted on the first vote on 12 June 2015. The project was drawn up by the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. And now with the long-awaited today's PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New requests for the period from 5 June to 11 June 2015 have not been made. Written answers to service: - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev; - from the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to a question by the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - from the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to a question from the National Representative Krasimir Jankov; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Mustafa Karadayi; - by the Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva to a question from the MPs Husein Hafuzov and Durhan Mustafa; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Delchev; - from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Vyara Cerovska; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Vyara Tzerovska; - from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Vasil Antonov; - from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva to a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Willi Lilkov; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to three questions from the National Representative Claudia Grigorova; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the MPs Georgi Kuchukov and Miho Mihov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from MP Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on a question from the National Representative Neno Vlaikov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov and Atanas Zafirov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Atanas Tashkov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Manol Genov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on two questions from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov on a question from the National Representative Ivan Kirilov Ivanov; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov on a question from the National Representative Desislava Kostadinova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Kiril Dobrev; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Kalina Balabanov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to two questions from the National Representative Ivan Valkov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the National Representative Korman Ismailov. We move on to the questions and answers to the cabinet members who have stated an opportunity to participate today in parliamentary control. First, Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova will respond to Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister for the Interior. Before that, however, there was a request for a Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. Mr. Tasco Ermenkov will offer us the Declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have witnessed how the return of GERB and the right coalition to power is detrimental to electricity prices. In fact, we are talking about a continuation of that energy policy again, leading to impossible prices for both people and businesses, a policy with which, under the pressure of society, we had separated at the beginning of 2013. There is once again an attempt to shift the burden of solutions to energy problems on the back of the ordinary person. Moreover, we are also witnessing a continuation of the policy of intervention of the executive power in the face of the Prime Minister in the work of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Here are some of the titles in the media for illustration: "Standart" "Boyko sends emissaries for the price of the current" ; "Monitor" "Boyko Borisov: "Messer" adjournment for the new prices of the current" ; "Investor." Bulgarian Prime Minister Borisov sends MPs to KEWR for the price of electricity and electricity for the business is not good. The offer for the price of electricity for the business is not good. The Prime Minister Borisov is sending MPs to KEWRC for the price of electricity. The offer for the price of electricity for the business is not good. After all, the aim of Parliament to elect commissioners in the energy and water regulator was to guarantee its independence, not to tempt the government to intervene. Alas, the party president, who is notorious for being only consistent in his insecurities, could not resist the temptation to once again single-handedly dispose of the fate of the people. He, who is also the prime minister of the state, started, as can be seen from the above headlines, making suggestions and proposing decisions to the KEWRC, which is clearly contrary to its status. Moreover, the prime minister also allowed himself to set the agenda for the work of Parliament and its committees and also to define their powers. Recalling that the KEWRC was broadcast by parliament and the cabinet could not interfere with its work, he noted that a parliamentary committee, however, had such rights and had to tell them how they did the pricing. We would hardly imagine a more brutal interference in the work of an independent regulatory authority by the executive and an attempt at dictation over parliament. And if this intervention was in the defense of the common man, she would have, if not some excuse, at least an understanding. Alas, as always, the chairman of the GERB party is a defender of the largest capital, calls for a revision of the price of electricity to the detriment of the ordinary Bulgarian. The parliamentary group of Coalition BSP left Bulgaria and has its reservations to the Commission's decision on energy and water regulation on the unbalanced approach to public and private enterprises. The fact that in deficit conditions is reduced the price at which the National Energy Company will sell electricity to the final suppliers, while increasing the price of electricity for the household, while the most damaged will be the Northeast region of Bulgaria. We do not understand what people in Varna, Dobrich, Razgrad, Ruse, Silistra, Targovishte are guilty of being punished with a higher price of electricity. Perhaps this is the revenge of the government for the events of February 2013, which began precisely in Varna? We can also not be concerned by the fact that the price of electricity sold by the NPP is reduced and Kozloduy is brought down from its cost. Surprisingly, the fact that the plant is obliged to sell electricity to cover the technological losses of the electricity distribution companies at the price of 30 BGN per megawatt hour at cost, notice, over 50 BGN, even more so that in these losses are calculated all the thefts of electricity, the prevention of which is direct responsibility of the electricity distribution companies. Here we should note with great bitterness that the KEWRC has increased these costs by more than 30% compared to the previous price period. Instead of disciplining the ERPs to reduce their technological costs, including by reducing electricity thefts, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission proposes that these thefts be offset by a lower market price and allows their size to be increased and all on the back of consumers. For the first time in the history of the country's electricity energy mix is not included TPP Maritsa East 2, something that raises legitimate concerns and provokes justified protests by the miners of Minnie Maritsa East. It is worrying that no special attention is paid and the efforts of all institutions are not directed to eradicate the main reasons for the accumulation of the deficit in NEK, and they are, as is publicly known, long-term contracts for buying preferential prices of renewable electricity, as well as the murderous contracts for our energy with the so-called US power stations, which, contrary to any market logic, earn more when they do not work. In fact, it continues the policy of forming such a price which would damage state-owned energy enterprises to take from them in order to give it to private ones. We do have concerns, doubts and concerns about the new pricing model, but we adhere and advise all MPs and institutions in the country to adhere to the laws of Bulgaria. The independence of the regulatory authorities must be guaranteed and the political responsibility for their actions must be borne by those political formations which have broadcast their representatives in them. In this regard, let us remind that Coalition BSP left Bulgaria is not a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in the part of energy. So all political responsibility for the consequences of the Commission's decisions should be borne by the parties of the quadruple ruling coalition, and these consequences could be detrimental to ordinary people who are detrimental to the country's economy as a whole. There will inevitably be an increase in the number of energy poor, which, along with the freezing and withdrawal of those social benefits for young people, mothers, working poor, pensioners will lead to the further impoverishment of the country's population. In fact, the statements cited above from the beginning of the Prime Minister's declaration are also a clumsy attempt to wash hands of political responsibility for this. As always with him, someone else is guilty, and he ate onions and smelled onions. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Do not doubt for a moment that we and, as opposition, will continue to defend the interests of the workers and will take all legal action to ensure a decent life for the people of Bulgaria by opposing all attempts to further break down the businesses of the state sector of the economy and energy, including. We will continue our efforts to thaw out all social benefits and supplements and extend the scope of measures to compensate the energy poor. Be assured that we will hold an account and seek political responsibility for any action that is detrimental to the interests of the people, to the detriment of the Bulgarian state and statehood! [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u70	Can we move on to Mrs. Bachvarova's questions now? Mr. Atanas Merdjanov has a question for Mrs. Bachvarova. Previously on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of GERB Mr. Delyan Dobrev. With a large degree of probability the topic is the same.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u71	Dear colleagues! I apologize in advance that I will not have Mr. Tasco Ermenkov's pathos, but I have not written a statement to use a topic with great respect to people's everyday lives. I was hoping it wouldn't be used politically. From the speeches yesterday until the end of the day, it seemed to me that it would not be used, but obviously I was wrong. The KEWRC is independent, thanks to the decision of the National Assembly. The nine members of the KEWRC were elected by the National Assembly only a few months ago. This KEWRC GERB has two representatives. Even assuming that the parliamentary group of GERB or the prime minister can influence part of the composition of the KEWRC, it is on two of them out of nine. Do not try to apologize and distance yourself from the decisions of the regulator by having only one member and he is in the part of the water supply because this member participates in the nine-member composition when prices are accepted. This is our position on the independence of KEWRC and the influence of the Prime Minister on KEWRC. Thirty levs of technological losses from NPP "Kozloduy." Who introduced them? Let Mr. Stoinev tell you. [[BSP LB.]] When were they introduced, Mr. Stoinev? When did you make 30 leva? technological losses? Isn't it during Oresharski's office? In the case of another composition of the regulator, which determined 30 leva. technological losses? [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u72	Please don't engage in dialogue with each other. You have the floor for a declaration, Mr. Dobrev, not for questions to the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u73	Text two, text two, no quota. But he will sell a quota at 65 BGN, which is lower than the market price. You also understand that very well. Don't speculate with the miners and their fears because you're wrong. Long-term contracts. Who gave the special bet on long-term contracts? This government is the first to do and negotiate, and not only did it negotiate so much, that fairy tale agreements were actually concluded for the price of long-term contracts, which, according to the cabinet's calculations, amounts to nearly 100 million. lv. per year. 100 million leva a year, colleagues, will save the state and all the people in it, and the business from the conclusion of long-term agreements to long-term contracts to reduce the price. I will not recall when these long-term contracts were signed as early as 2001. [[BSP LB.]] I will not also recall why these plants have become a reality. It happened because in 2007, a former minister gave a special bet on the basis of which he placed the claims of the National Electricity Company so that a third party could withdraw a loan. Regarding the wines with the long-term contracts GERB has no fault at all.. neither the first nor the second cabinet, quite the opposite: GERB is the first cabinet to reduce the price of the long-term contracts. You also speculate that the price of the goods would almost rise after the price of energy has risen. First of all, let's be clear about the percentages. For domestic subscribers, the increase is between 1 and 2%, depending on the ERPs, on average 1.99%. The business, the industry, which consumes over 10 or over 30 gigawatt hours according to the decisions of the regulation the increase will be between 1 and 2%. For the rest of the business in the field of services, malls, retail chains, municipalities, the increase of the obligations to society is from BGN 26. 40 leva. and pennies, at the ultimate price of the energy they pay, 160 BGN. The increase is between 8-9% of this service sector. Here I am in a hurry to clarify that the same companies that went out six months ago on the free market paid 15% higher prices for electricity up until six months ago. So then they paid 15% higher price, now after the increase they will pay 5-6 percent less. As we didn't notice six months ago, they would reduce the price of goods and services, because the price of electricity has decreased by 15%, and now we will hardly notice that they will increase the price of these same goods and services. Do not use the topic of energy for politics. We started this National Assembly well, and in February this year we adopted thanks to all the parties in this Parliament.. I stress changes in the Energy Act, which reduced the deficit of the National Electricity Company from 800 to 400 million. lv. Half of the energy reform was done here in this National Assembly. This decision of the regulator returns justice so that the consumer does not pay 50 BGN. obligations to society or 5 pennies from his account of kilowatt duty to society and, on the other hand, business, including retail chains, shopping malls, municipalities, to pay 1.8 pennies. Now both will pay 4 cents each, except for the industry, which will pay 2 pennies, because according to the rules, the guidelines of the European Commission on State aid are at risk of this industry being bankrupt. Therefore, green energy obligations can be reduced by 85%. This regulation will be adopted on Monday so that they can pay less and the increase for this industry is 1-2% as for domestic subscribers. This decision of the regulator guarantees and is a step towards market liberalisation. If so far there has been a huge disproportion of how much the regulated market is paying and how much the free market is paying, these conditions are currently not even, but they are close. Once again, it is more profitable on a free market, but it is more profitable by about 4-5% to continue to stimulate the release of the free market, but there is no disproportion and the possibility that companies that are not an industry that are in the service sector are attracted to the industry and try to pay a debt to society as much as the industry pays. I repeat again, according to all the rules of the European Commission. My request is that we do not try to raise our ratings to our parliamentary groups, to our political parties, speculating on this topic. Society is sensitive enough not to experiment on the subject. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u74	You are welcome for a procedure in the manner of conduct, but with one mind that if it is not in the manner of conduct, you know what follows.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u75	I know, of course, even the least I know what's going to happen next.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u76	Let's see.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u77	Madam President, since you started with a note, I will say it from the stands: I have no doubt that it will follow, not even on grounds, but in the least doubt.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u78	You're already confirming my doubt.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u79	Yeah, yeah, that's the way it goes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u80	You are now here in confirmation of my doubt and what I have said.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u81	Madam President, in my opinion, when taking the floor on behalf of a parliamentary group, you must monitor whether it is on behalf of a parliamentary group or not. Here in the whole speech I heard on my behalf, my speech and so on. The explanatory regime was on behalf of Mr. Dobrev, not on behalf of the parliamentary group. She was never mentioned once. very please, when there is a procedure on behalf of a parliamentary group, let it be on behalf of and not of the personal quality of the person, however competent, was he minister and so on, because this way he affords innuendo. The declaration was mainly directed against attempts to intervene in the work of the KEWRC by the executive, if you had listened carefully, Mr. Dobrev. The rest was just our concern.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u82	To me, Mr. Ermenkov, is the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u83	To you, too. I ask you very much, Madam President, when it comes to declarations, let them be declarations, because otherwise we violate the Rules of the National Assembly, which requires and authorises only political declarations on behalf of political parties, and not to be made on personal behalf during parliamentary control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u84	We support him entirely.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u85	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. I will not use the full minutes and seconds of the two minutes that I have time to answer. I hope you will not question my qualities as a member of the GERB Parliamentary Group. So from my own person, I declare that I have been informed and have been present in taking the position expressed by Mr. Delyan Dobrev on the occasion of this declaration. Thank you for paying attention to me so that I can enlighten all MPs that this is the position of the Parliamentary Group of GERB. For another reason you had in the way of conduct, but I made a note to Mr. Dobrev, who entered an uncontrolled dialogue with MPs from the Chamber, as a result of which we will now hear their personal explanation. Mr. Stoinev, you have the floor for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs Deputy Prime Minister! Look, there's no way when it comes to this kind of reform, there's no political speech, and I don't know why you're angry. Moreover, we do not speculate on the concerns of the miners. I remember when I entered this position the mines were on strike and you felt very well the wrath of the miners. So when there's tension, it's nice to light the red light and know that the right decisions have to be made. As for the RES sector, it is difficult for people to forget when it became the biggest boom. In one year, approximately a thousand megawatts in the RES sector. And of course, we all have to find the right solution so that it doesn't fall on people. Good are these changes that have been adopted, but in no case can I accept that this, you see, was half the reform. If we are talking about real reform, it started a year and a half earlier when we started working for a balancing market when we started for the energy exchange when the first restrictions on high-efficiency cogeneration were made. And now these are steps that really build on. But to say that you have launched some kind of reform with only certain actions, by no means can I agree.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u87	Is that what you were personally offended by, Mr. Stoinev? I've been listening very carefully to a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u88	Wait a minute. And the second, which is about the American power stations, you haven't done anything yet. The month of June is the time limit in which the money is to be found. I'm glad Mrs. Bachvarova is here, because if you don't find the money, those contracts are off. And as far as I'm concerned, you're not looking for money. And our personal opinion is that you really need to step up some actions that were from the previous government, because it is really important that these funds enter the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u89	Can we give the floor to Mrs. Bachvarova now? Yeah. The first question is Mr. Volen Siderov, which he postponed. That is why Mr. Atanas Merdjanov's question is the first question about the control by the Ministry of Interior's COS office. You have the opportunity to develop your question, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, Mrs. Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, honors you that you immediately appeared to Parliamentary control, unlike your colleagues, some of whom have been absent for 45 days and have not answered questions from the Members of the National Assembly. The question I want to ask you is related to the tragic incident of the Anevo polygon. Unfortunately, this incident is part of the tragic series, which is carried out because of the carelessness and inaction of the state services in the Republic of Bulgaria. At least five ministries responsible for this incident are responsible for the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, of course, the Deputy Prime Minister responsible for this, who oversees the security sector. And as many allegations and interpretations of the case have appeared in the press, unfortunately the tragic character has far exceeded the country's borders, as the Reuters Agency quoted the injured in the bombing in Anevo American citizens as testing weapons intended for the opposition in Syria; no delay in reply to Moscow, RIA Novosti, who say: "We cannot not ask ourselves what were the objectives of the US citizens who were involved in the tests of the armed Soviet model carried out by a private military company in Bulgarian territory. The statement of the President of the Republic, who expects in a short time within days, if not within hours, will also be delayed by the responsible institutions to clarify what the incident is due to. But the most interesting statement was by Minister of Defence Nenchev, who said on the National Radio that he did not know the company that was testing weapons at the polygon near Anevo, expects the investigating authorities to do their job, [[the President signals that time has run out]] it's not about training, it's not responsible for other people's sins. It gives the impression that once again, as in the tragic case of the Fivefold, it is a transfer of responsibility.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u91	Twenty seconds more.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u92	That is why I ask you, Mrs. Bachvarova, to answer: how was the control carried out by the COS office of the Ministry of Interior? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u93	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova and Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Merdjanov, I try not to put off the questions that the Members of the National Assembly are asking me because I realize that my responsibility is extremely high on the subject of all the current topics. So I would like to tell you that I will not transfer responsibility from myself for what I should be carrying it for. I will make some clarification that I hope will help you to clarify the nature of what happened on June 6th and not speculate politically on this case. This incident, which occurred on June 6th, was on a separate site on which VMZ gr. Sopot performs a test of his production. The testing activity of products produced by the plant is part of the technology in the manufacturing process and according to the provisions of the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles does not require control by the Ministry of Interior. The personnel of the CoS Office shall carry out ongoing controls on the conservation, accountability and physical protection of storage warehouses for explosives, weapons and ammunition and pyrotechnic articles. On the territory of the polygon of VMZ gr. Sopot has a storage facility for explosives and the employees of the Ministry of Interior have fulfilled their duties, replaced them by the Law, carrying out security audits on the polygon. We're talking about the warehouses, not the playground where this incident occurred. The development and validation of safety instructions for carrying out explosive activities is the obligation of manufacturers. In 2013, the company authorised to use the polygon was authorised to trade arms, ammunition, explosives and pyrotechnic articles with a period of validity until 2018. It also holds an export and import licence for defence-related products since 2014, issued by the Interdepartmental Defence Industry and Supply Security Council to the Council of Ministers. This is in 2014. In 2011, the company concerned entered into a lease contract with VMZ gr. Sopot, under which it receives for temporary use real estate with an area of 150 sq.m, located in the region of the village of Iganovo. There the COS performs its functions. There are no records of omissions in their activities. In connection with the implementation of its commercial activity in 2013, the company also entered into a contract under which the plant retains in its own warehouses the company's property. A contract has also been signed to test a hand grenade launcher and grenades for him for training purposes. The incident on June 6th, in which one person and four were injured, arose in connection with the test. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Before the incident at the Ministry of Interior, no information was received about a contract for the test, as there is no such requirement under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. The line, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, I am extremely grateful for this response that you gave to the people's representation, which is very interesting. However, I do not know if you realize that you have just signed the resignation of Minister Lukarski and hinted about the resignation of Minister Nenchev, because both ministers have categorically rejected and rejected the apologies of the institutions they run. After all, who is guilty will prove it, I hope, the investigation and the Bulgarian court, but it is something else. We are witnessing another tragic incident in which people are killed. I do not want to exclude any of the Bulgarian governments who have underestimated this issue at different times, but it is a fact that these cases are of special frequency with the GERB governments. I don't speculate politically. These are the data, these are the facts, and here we see again a transfer of the ball and a lack of government attitude about what legislative initiative to take in order to prevent such tragic incidents. We hinted at a special programme which Minister Nenchev himself had to make to meet the Bulgarian citizens' overall expectation for the vision of the Ministry of Storage and, of course, the utilization of the many ammunition that are on the territory of the country. So far, we don't have that answer. We're waiting. And we will continue to ask the other ministers because, as I have already said, this case has far exceeded the borders of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u97	A hole, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u98	Mr. Merdjanov, take your time with the resignations. There's still an investigation into this case, a distribution of responsibilities. And I expect, however, the results and findings of this production. In the previous cases you're referring to, there are no human casualties to our delight. I think you are misleading your colleagues and Bulgarian citizens with such a statement. On these two cases, the prosecution is also currently working without closing its investigation. [[Relations of the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u99	The next question is Mr. Atanas Merdjanov's regarding the targeted and taken concrete measures of the Ministry of Interior regarding domestic crime. Here you go, Mr. Merdjanov. [[Replies from the place of the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]] Mr. Bojinov, only your voice is heard in the entire room outside the microphone.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, the Germen case has spoken and written a lot. Once again it is about tragic, one concern, but this case has raised many questions that cannot be addressed to state institutions. I will not stop myself, of course, because I can also speculate on this topic with your inter-coalition relations, for which you are responsible, because here, from this tribune, an ultimatum has been placed to solve domestic crime issues, but what happens in Garmen? It is more than clear that you, as a leadership of the Ministry of Interior, failed to give a convincing answer. They failed to give convincing answers to other institutions, such as the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Today, between us, the deadline is up for the voluntary demolition of illegally built homes. My question, however, relates to the specific measures that you have taken and pointed out after the case in Garmen, because in a morning block of a television show, very scary scenarios have been played out. There was an initiative for the creation of Roma Berets, for security advice to municipalities, citizens began to self-organise because of lack of state, of state authorities, the police themselves claim that there is no state. What's this about? I remember how you seemed to like and caricature our actions with regard to the measures we take for domestic crime. They were one step. True, they did not exhaust the entire arsenal of opportunities that the state could afford and organise, but it was still a step. What will you do in this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u101	For an answer Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Merdjanov, it is interesting to talk to you in the style of parliamentary control about the same things. I think that on your main topics and concerns I have already answered several times, but I will answer you now again. I have to, because of respect for the institution. I mean, I wouldn't comment on allegations, on phrases in TV shows, because the air is free, anyone can interpret one event or another without being responsible for the ones he launches. And since you're asking specifically, I understand from the way you asked the question that you read what happened in Garmen. I was in Garmen myself a few times, and I saw what was happening. I worked on the ground with my colleagues, with the district government, with the mayor of Garmen, so that we could implement concrete measures. They've been applied. I think right now, I hope the situation in Garmen is calm. Recently, what happened in the implementation of the very specific plan of measures, I can tell you that they were installed on 8 and 9 June, literally days ago, were installed cameras at pre-coordinated with the Ministry of Interior in the village of Germen, Ognyanovo and Dubnitsa. On the day of yesterday in the operational part of the Regional Administration, Gotse Delchev was installed a recording device and a control monitor to the video surveillance system, meaning we are currently monitoring the situation in these settlements now constantly. The other measure I insisted on has also been fulfilled. There are also standard complaint forms and are prepared to be placed in visible places in Garmen, so that by citizens anyone who feels injured can signal the easiest way for him and our authorities can take action in this direction. The process of destroying illegal buildings is also under way. Here are other institutions, but what makes me most confident in the direction in which we were looking for a solution was the verification that started literally the day after the events, long before the scheduled preliminary protest of the citizens of Garmen, in which representatives of all territorial structures of the state institutions, plus representatives of CEZ of their will, together with the assistance of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, carried out checks on main lines in the Roma neighborhood in Garmen. I think it is stronger evidence that the state is working on this case that can hardly be mentioned at this time. This gives me reason to keep working in this direction. In the recent talks with the Patriotic Front, I also think that my colleagues have received a response in a very specific way and with specific deadlines. I hope you can also identify the results of the measures that have been implemented by your government so that we can compare them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u103	The line, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, I am surprised by your confidence. The Garmen case I referred to as a typization of the overall situation in the country. I hope you will agree that the issues of domestic crime are still in the bud, and I would like to repeat that here we have the responsibility and guilt of all Bulgarian governments that have been in recent years. The point is that you came to power with a promise, with some intentions, mainly of your coalition partners, that once and for all something irreversible will be put into solving these problems, but this is not happening. I do not know about these specific measures that you have outlined here, but I want to tell you our information that in Garmen and around it the Roma are starting to withdraw to the high parts of the mountains. It's summer. They have already inhabited some nearby areas around Gotse Delchev, but when it gets cold, what will happen? We're running out of time today. I don't know if illegal buildings will be demolished, and I don't know if this is the right way, but more importantly, there is no confidence in the Ministry that these measures can be implemented. Excuse me, but the very fact that today and tomorrow there will be protests of police unions, what is he talking about? For lack of self-confidence, for lack of reasonable confidence, for lack of sufficient security within the police officers themselves who must implement these measures. I'll list our measures for you. We actually built an interactive crime map. I said, it's footprints. We demonstrated an enhanced presence of the gendarmes in small, remote settlements. How else can there be any hope in people?! We created the Security Programme to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which at least created an opportunity for more solidarity in the protection of property and property of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u105	Will you use the hole, Mrs. Bachvarova? You don't make sense of it. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the question of the gentlemen Atanas Zafirov and Vasil Antonov regarding participation of children in scenes that create violence and use of weapons. You're welcome to develop the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, according to information and films uploaded to the public internet, as well as numerous publications in various media, on 30 May this year on the Belen Island of Persin on an event attended by politicians and public... By the way, I regret that the President of the National Assembly has just left, but Mrs. Tsacheva has also attended this event, as well as colleagues from GERB, whom I see here in the Chamber. In their presence is presented a play under the motto "Most between generations." Children from elementary school took part in the presentation of this play in the town of Belene. Visible by reports and photos in various media, children involved are involved in scenes that include elements of violence and the use of firearms. I sincerely hope that you have seen, Mr. Minister, this photo is a photo bearing the Ministry of Defense logo, on which one child literally pointed a gun at another's head, which fell on his knees and with a terrible look begs for mercy. As the main organizer of this, I would describe it as a disgraceful event, is the Italian citizen Father Paolo Cortezy, who, notice, in subsequent media appearances not only does not deny this fact, he claims that he has used children in similar scenes at other times. As an example, the use of children recreating the Bible's scene of the extermination of juveniles with wooden swords. Unbelievable, but such a position is shared and approved by the school principal, who sees nothing disturbing in these appearances. Understandably, all this caused the great indignation and discontent in the Bulgarian society, which is why my questions to you, Mr. Minister, are: Firstly, what is your opinion on this issue and, of course, the opinion of the State Agency for Child Protection? Do you feel right, will you take responsibility and what this responsibility and sanctions will be? And the most important question: does it also prove to be the control over the activities of such religious preachers who work and communicate directly with children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u107	Thank you, dear Mr. Zafirov. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for an answer. Only on behalf of colleagues, since the President of the National Assembly is not here, they hardly knew in advance what the content would be and what would happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zafirov, you're asking for my personal opinion. I do not think that neither the scene nor its presentation on sites, especially to official state institutions, is appropriate. That's my personal opinion. I also checked with the State Agency for Child Protection, which is still the State Agency, it is not my ward, and the Agency for Social Assistance, which is part of the structure of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. They have checked on this case and the opinion they have prepared is as follows. They are based on several international acts and international conventions relating to the rights of the child, which include both rejecting any violence against children and any action that could put a child at risk. And we can imagine that such scenes and photographs would encourage in a similar direction. It is also the subject of international regulation that the obligation to prevent children from participating in events that are adverse or pose a risk of harm to their physical, mental, moral or social health. This is also enshrined in the Bulgarian Child Protection Act. At the same time, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child respects the right of children to participate fully in cultural creative life and to promote the provision of appropriate and equal opportunities for cultural and creative activities to children. So there are no texts in both international conventions and national law that will allow for a direct example censorship of such text. There are, we know, other scenes that suggest violence and are related to the history of Bulgaria, where there were different types of struggles for liberation and so on. After this case became a fact, there was also a conversation of representatives of the Agency for Social Assistance with the organizer of this event the Catholic priest of the church There was a meeting with both the school management and the parents. It turned out that all parents expressed express consent to their children's participation. The school has also expressed similar agreement and they have been involved in reproduction on a historic stage since 1949. This is the official explanation. If I can conclude, outside my personal opinion, which matches to a large extent with you that this is absolutely inappropriate to present and show, there is no national or international legislation in which to stop or censor such participation, provided that it occurs with the consent of the children, parents and teachers of the school where they study. There are also no legal possibilities or requirements for punishment for such actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u109	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. For a reply.. the public representative Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u110	Madam President, Mr President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I think your answer sounded very unserious to the worrying question that has been asked. We certainly didn't expect that answer from you. You are quoting the Convention on Children's Rights, which, of course, was ratified by the Bulgarian Parliament in 1992, and so you suggest that there is no legislation that cannot take measures on the scandalous case from 30 May this year. Let me remind you that this is a matter of violation of the Constitution of the country................................................................................... 13, who defends church creeds and gives them freedom of independence, but does not allow them to be used for political purposes. What you are quoting has been given to some extent the first days on individual televisions, but first we do not accept it as the truth. That was the version shared by the infamous Father Paolo Cortezy. It's a back story that's longer. I agree with you that in time she snuck up on a very good occasion, but the truth is that in the last 7 months she has developed very actively as a scenario for scenes and collection of funds for events, building a museum on the island of Belene. The truth is that after this case was made public and it was given to the media, people moved away. Parents took matters seriously, and much of the children no longer attend these scenes. The truth is that the case is scandalous and crosses the limits of good tone, including violating the country's Constitution.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u111	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. Mr. Minister gave you his personal opinion on the matter, he also introduced you to international regulations. You have the right to a duplicate, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To clarify something, because Mr. Antonov has shifted the center of the matter. It is related to whether such scenes should be displayed or, as we now understand, church structures should deal with historical reconstructions and interpretation of history. There's no criminal responsibility for either one of them. Mr. Antonov, if their parents don't agree to their children's participation, there's no way anyone can force them into such performances. If what you say is a fact, they have also participated in the assurance of the parents themselves with their permission. And the interpretation of history and its different stages is probably not something that censorship can be imposed on. What, in my personal opinion, is unacceptable, is that state institutions publish and promote similar scenes on their websites. The topics related to the interpretation of history related to who can make theatrical logs and what happened on the island of Belene, let's leave it to historians. They are not related to legislation at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u113	For a personal explanation, the President of the National Assembly Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u114	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Kalfin, Mr. Goranov! Dear colleagues! Yes, it is true that I, as President of the National Assembly, together with other MPs and other representatives of the state institutions, were on the island of Persin to celebrate the anniversary of the tragic events taking place here. The only scandalous thing in this case is the way in which a parliamentary group has been dealing with the things that have happened there for a third week, probably re-created by the mayor of Belene, who, as far as I know, is still a member of the BSP and has also been present with us, the other representatives of state institutions. It is inexplicable to me how people from other constituencies, miles away from Pleven, without being there, without knowing what happened, freely and frivolously claim from this parliamentary tribune things that are not true. I understand that the facts of those days and years of terror in this place are not convenient for you, but the truth is that there will be no oblivion! In this sense, I thank you for constantly raising this question for a third week. Yeah, there's gonna be a museum! Children with their parents' consent made the arrangement, but not with weapons, as you claim, but with butaphorical plastic pistols, one of which was thrown down into the grass after my reaction. If you were there, you'd see. Come next time. I invite you all! Like it or not, that's our story. And as the Club of Tradition is making a separation of other dark moments from our more distant history, in which it really has a corresponding value and swords and pistols of that time, children are also involved there, but do not from a work made in the styles of our Revival techniques. Children play unprofessionally, make such severe conclusions that they recreate violence and use weapons. Absolutely not true is what you export and the way you manipulate Bulgarian citizens!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u115	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsacheva. That concludes the questions to Deputy Prime Minister Ivaylo Kalfin. Thank you for your participation today. [[Replys from BSP LB: "Procedure, procedure! "]] I can hear you, you have a very good diction. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, deputy prime ministers! Dear Madam President, I have a brief question for you: what association does the number 45 cause in you? Maybe you can tell us that 45 years is enough! I will reply to you: "45 days are enough! " Today is exactly 45 days since I asked a question, introduced on 29 April 2015. The problem of asking was extremely important because it concerns the policy of the state, the government's strategy for the development of mountain, semi-mountain, backward and border regions. So far, there's no movement, no sign of respect for the parliamentary procedure. My question was addressed to Minister Lilyana Pavlova. In essence, the case referred to procedures, open wickedness in some of them, deadlines, false start of attempts to develop this program and whatnot. I sincerely sympathize with Minister Pavlova's addiction to asphalt and highways. I am also trying to enter your party soul to empathize with your stubbornness, with which as eagles the defence ministers of GERB from all these legal parliamentary procedures. But all of this is crossing a line. Please, Madam President, be startled and make some of the ministers understand that they are current ministers precisely that this country and this country is governed by parliament. Let the same ministers fulfil their commitments before the National Assembly to the parliamentary questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u117	Thank you, Mr. Genov. You're absolutely right. If your parliamentary group had not become one of the reasons for failing the plenary plenary session last Friday, Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova was prepared to answer your question, but when we, the MPs, do not create conditions for the ministers to answer our questions, there is no way that this will happen in a non-working plenary session.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u118	You said my name.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u119	I said that because you approached me in the manner of conduct. Who shall I answer to, my fellow Members who sit at the other end of the room?! Sit down! Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, will answer a question from MP Emil Dimitrov concerning a scheme of cigarette smuggling at the border checkpoint Captain Andreevo, revealed by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and the prosecution.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u120	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Tempted by what has just happened, I say I will not ask how many concentration camps there were in Belene, in Cherven Bryag, in Rudnik, Kuzian and the island of Persin. I will not comment on why recalling or recreating some dark part of the past creates many broaches. At the very least, because if we ban such things, it means banning and recalling other dark parts, for which there are many beautiful films such as........................ each.................................................. We wouldn't afford it. We mustn't forget the past. History even the darkest moments are something we need to remember at least so they don't happen again. Let us learn from our mistakes, remember our past, but work for the future. In this regard, it is also my current question to Mr. Minister of Finance Mr. Goranov and is related to the direct activity of the Ministry of Finance and the uncovering of smuggling channels, which has been actively developing in recent months. I am addressing you, Mr. Minister, for the widely reflected action of the Ministry of Interior and the prosecution, in which 13 customs officers, several border police were arrested at the end of March. The action was going forward. Smuggling continues to be one of the most serious problems facing our country, including cigarette smuggling. In this regard, I would like to ask you, Minister: how many customs officers have been punished and fired after the revelations at the end of March 2015 about the specific case of Captain Andreevo? Has a strategy been developed and what specific measures have been taken by the Customs Agency and the Ministry of Finance to strengthen control over customs officials so as to limit the smuggling of cigarettes into the country? This is a serious problem, a serious source of income and all efforts in this direction that lead to the detection of smuggling channels and to an increase in revenue are justified and we would be happy to stand behind your efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u121	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u122	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Dimitrov, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! As a result of a verification carried out by the Central Customs Administration, 18 trucks with risky goods have been identified, for which the Turkish Customs Administration has provided preliminary information to the Bulgarian Customs Administration. In this case, pre-trial proceedings have been brought by the District Prosecutor's Office (Plovdiv). The mutual exchange of information with the Turkish Customs Administration is based on an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Turkey since 1998. At present a mechanism has been established for a 24-hour bilateral exchange of preliminary information between the two customs administrations for the movement of excise goods. The exchange shall take place electronically at central level. By order of the head of Customs Svilengrad is regulated the procedure of the customs office of Captain Andreevo to register the cases of transfer of excise goods documents from and to the Turkish Customs Administration. Specifically on the first part of your question. With effect from 28 April 2015, the Office of Customs has terminated the duties of 21 officials from Customs Svilengrad, including officials who have been indicted and have been subject to a non-retribution measure under guard. Officers from different customs offices shall be posted to carry out their duties at the customs office of departure at Captain Andreevo. This practice will continue to be applied in the future as well as rotation of employees between different shifts of the point will take place periodically. Specialized teams from the customs mobile groups of the Central Customs Administration of the Customs Agency are sent to improve operational control. In support of this thesis are the proposed amendments and additions to the Customs Act, which you are probably familiar with. In order to improve the risk analysis and to carry out multi-level controls on inbound and outgoing road transport vehicles, a warrant has been issued and detailed actions have been described and the responsibilities of customs officers at the relevant workplaces at all customs posts have been specified. In order to ensure the control of trucks with goods and the introduction into the customs territory of the European Union in particular in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Director of the Customs Agency has established an organization and each of the eight lanes of route incoming road vehicles are installed barriers, traffic lights and video cameras to read the registration numbers of the cars. Since the beginning of May 2015, scales for measuring total mass and axial loaded lines in dynamic mode have been put into operation. Data from scales and video cameras are automatically imported into the customs information system, which allows to avoid the effects of a subjective human factor. In addition to the same, with effect from 1 June, the possibility of cash payments at the customs office of Captain Andreevo has been removed and, as of this date, only electronic card payments are accepted and post terminals are installed, with which we believe that we will further reduce corruption pressure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u123	Thank you, Mr. Goranov. Come in, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister of Finance Mr. Goranov, I am pleased with the full, accurate and comprehensive answer. I think this is the way to go. I take this opportunity to thank you for this exact answer, because it is in the most correct way to recreate what has happened and your intentions, which I am confident, are in the right direction. With regard to the new Law on the Transport of Goods, we support it fully, including the extension of the powers that the Ministry of Interior will acquire in the opening of the smuggling channels, i.e. the amendment to the Criminal Code. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u125	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Question from the National Representative Cornelia Petrova Ninova on the creation of a special fund for payment of disaster benefits. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u126	Mr. Minister, my question is: how far has the government programme promised to create a special pool of funds from which compensation should be paid for victims of disasters? I ask it because in recent years there have been a lot of disasters in the country, from Asparuhovo it has been two years, from Miziya one year, from the landslides last winter, half a year, and there is no result for helping the affected people and for restoring the infrastructure. People continue to be in distress in Plovdiv, Smolyan, Kardzhali, not to mention Miziya living there in wagons, and for one month of the fountains in Mysia runs the entire Mendeleeva table. It's forbidden to drink, wash, bathe, water. At 30 degrees, people live in wagons and there's no water. My question is: does the government need to create this catastrophic pool and if so, when? European money will obviously not come soon and will not reach the people. Of the national money provided for in the budget, there were hardly any left. I've just received a reply from Mrs Bachvarova with numbers. This fund is also almost exhausted and there is no money. What are your intentions from now on to help these people? It's calm now, thank God, and that's why I'm asking you now so that you don't accuse us of using people's tragedy for political purposes. Now it's quiet, now it's time to take action. The summer season will roll quickly, winter will come, and people are still in wagons, without any measures to assist them. When will the disaster pool become and compensation can be paid from there?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Mr. Goranov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u128	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Ninova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You know that we have submitted to the National Assembly a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Disasters, which provides for State support for categories of citizens in overcoming property damage caused by disasters, by introducing a mechanism to assist individuals who, by their own financial means, cannot take care of their property in the event of disasters. I will read the prepared preliminary information and in duplicate mode I will also present my personal position in this direction. The funds from the central budget through the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, respectively the Social Assistance Agency, will reach people who need disaster support and they will be up to the amount of the property tax assessment. Those who do not wish to be insured voluntarily and who have the opportunity to do so shall not claim aid to the State for this purpose. We may have conceptual differences here, but I believe that's true. Additional changes in the legal framework may be implemented, but the responsibility of citizens, municipalities and the state for the property they own should initially be increased and preventive action should be improved. We believe that this is one of the important stages of a series of actions aimed at improving the organisation of work, allocation of responsibilities and sources of funding in the event of adverse events caused by natural disasters. Of course, we rely on a partnership between the state, municipalities and the insurance business in this direction. Your specific question about the..Credit pool was discussed about the creation of a special fund. In any case, it exists if we assume that the annual planning of funds to overcome the consequences of disasters and accidents can be regarded as a fund. It is Kazuistic whether revenue sources in the budget should be increased by changing the tax burden associated with the taxation of insurance premiums as a potential source for the increase of resources in this direction. What is important to note is that efforts, apart from overcoming the already accumulated problems, especially in Miziya, which we observe closely and have communication with local authorities, we are ready to propose a mechanism that will facilitate and contribute to the assistance of the affected households so that they can benefit from the current mechanisms for financial support for recovery. In addition to overcoming existing problems, give a clear mechanism for the future. In this sense, you rightly raise the question. In our view, the proposed amendments to the legislation, although not completed, answer the question of how assistance could be structured for households who have suffered from such natural disasters. We must bear in mind that conceptually the right to property is inviolable, it is personal. In this sense, it creates not only rights but also responsibilities. The protection of individual property outside the insurance principle could only be done for people who, for one reason or another, after an income text, cannot take care of this property themselves and it is minimally necessary for their domestic survival. The general perception that whatever happens to private property the state is obliged to cover these damages is conceptually unacceptable, as is unacceptable for us, and the introduction of compulsory insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u129	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's your line, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u130	Mr. Secretary, this is not going to work! If you think you're gonna twist and run away from the question, it's not gonna work! Because I'm going to quote you on February 4th, you say, "The creation of a money pool is embedded in our program." The Ministry of Finance is preparing a law. It will be presented within one week in the parliament. The Ministry of Finance! Inside it is described what this Law will contain. February 4th! It's June 12th. Not a single two weeks, seventeen have passed since then. We don't have a CPR law. You quote that you have introduced the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection of Disasters, which would solve the issue. The only change that you have made is to inform people of the following responsibility: I read it literally from the Amending and Supplement Bill (ZID): Everyone should take measures to protect their property from damage and to limit the damage caused by the disaster, as well as to comply with the requirements of the competent authorities for removing the sources of danger for causing damage. And you're telling me that the state will have no responsibility to private property, it's a responsibility to everyone. Okay, it's a constitutional principle. However, where is the responsibility of the state, rather the state's carelessness for the barren dams, which, as we recall, were over 700; for the control of the ponds; for the cutting down of forests. Is that why people are going to be held accountable and take action to protect their property? I use the case that the Minister is here to thank her and as soon as I leave the room I will spread the information I have received for example about which companies are involved at the dams in Vratsa, because the prosecution said: "No one is guilty, no one is punished and no one is ever guilty and punished, and to the people we tell them: "Well take care of your belongings. There is! Seventeen, I don't remember the exact number. I will publish the companies by name and we will look for who is behind them and what responsibilities are carried. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] What you're proposing is not a Catastrophic Pool Act, Mr. Minister. You're transferring responsibility. One minister says: "I answer for the water and Lilyana Pavlova is responsible for the plumbing; Mr. Moskov is responsible for the quality of the water. Obviously, someone needs to coordinate you. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] On this occasion I asked Mr. Borisov, who should coordinate you. Mrs. Tsacheva returned it to me because she was not competent in this matter. I ask: when will there be someone competent in this country to stop drowning the citizens of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u132	Mrs. Ninova, your frustration and pathos are understandable, which you use to raise an unsolved question for a long time. However, I see no contradiction between what I say and what you say. We come to the general conclusion that compulsory insurance is not, in fact, you have not commented on this topic, but perhaps it is not the best solution. There's hardly any dispute over whose responsibility private property is. In the proposed measures, in addition to what you have read, the thesis you are imposing, there is also the claim that people who cannot self-insure themselves will be supported, but, of course, up to the amount of the tax assessment, because they themselves assess what the tax assessment is. And since they have no responsibility to the local budget, they can hardly expect a different attitude from the state to them. In this sense, there is hardly a conceptual dispute that the amount of compensation should be equal to the tax assessment, unless you feel otherwise. Apropo, it is positive that you are following the media appearances of the individual ministers, but what we commented on by February 4th at a conference related to this topic, organised by the Union of Insurances, it is precisely it that clears the concept that we have subsequently proposed - good or bad. If you believe that there is a reliable source of funding for this disaster pool that we have not caught, it is in this bill that you can demonstrate your legislative initiative. I am ready to participate, perhaps not from this tribune in the form of parliamentary control, but in a debate with you on this subject. It was after 4 February that we concluded that we must strengthen the responsibility of property owners. Of course, the issue of state responsibility is up-to-date exactly the way you put it, and your claims are correct. If you wish, we can have such a debate and think about who this revenue source is, which can be used for additional financing of such a financial and legal form, whether we will call it a pool, whether we will call it a fund, and who has the right to benefit from these funds and under what circumstances. The fact that it is largely the same now is undeniable, but lacks the responsibility line of owners and the assessment whether the owners could, with the funds and with the income they have, protect their own property from the risks to which it is exposed, through the insurance mechanism.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u133	Thank you for your participation in Parliamentary Control today, Minister Goranov. We move on to one question and two questions addressed to Ivelina Vassileva, Minister of Environment and Water. The first is a question by the MP Chavdar Georgiev about the current policy of the Ministry of Environment and Waters for the closure of landfills for municipal waste and meeting the requirements for environmentally friendly treatment of waste. Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u134	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, as you know, waste is one of the factors of negative impact on environmental components. This is particularly true of non-compliant landfills that were due to be closed June 2009 and now we are 2015. So I ask you: what is the policy of the Ministry of Environment and Water (MoEW) and do you even have any policy for emergency closure of landfills? In the previous term in four years, you managed to close five dumps out of two hundred. Despite the funds provided, for almost a year now no real activity has been launched in reclamation and closure. I ask you these questions, bearing in mind that the criminal procedure against Bulgaria is at a final stage and probably due to inaction, including yours, and the lack of real adequate policy our country will be condemned to pay. Moreover, not only is closure activity not being carried out, scandalous practices for the continued use of landfills are also permitted, although their activity should have been suspended long ago. Such a scandalous example is the dump of Topolovgrad, where the mayor is from GERB and where the collected quantities of household waste continue to be illegally disposed of at the dump site. Does anyone from the MoEW control this mayor and a number of others like him? Will this mayor be punished? The facts were publicly shown on BTV. Do you even have a targeted policy to close the dumps and do you control the non-use of landfills that do not meet the requirements?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u135	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Minister Vasileva, please come in for an answer to the question within 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u136	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, I will not dispute the dates you mentioned because these are the facts, as well as the fact that Bulgaria has a serious challenge in view of the advanced phase of the judicial proceedings against our country for the so-called old dumps. I will not dispute it, because I am convinced that you are very familiar with this, being a Deputy Minister with a portfolio of waste management and in 2009, when the duties of our state were to be completed, and also in the period 2013 - 2014, a period for which you mentioned that there was an inaction of the Ministry. Yes, waste management policy is the responsibility of the local authorities, but the Ministry of Environment and Water is a sustainable and continuously working in interaction with municipalities, helping them by providing financial resources as well as methodological assistance. In establishing the operation of municipal landfills which do not comply with the regulatory requirements, it is directly linked to the introduction into operation of the new regional waste management systems. The funding of the new regional systems is financed mainly by the Operational Programme "Environment 2007" and also by the enterprise for management of environmental activities. With funds under the Operational Programme is financed the construction of 20 regional waste management systems for which nearly 750 million have been allocated. lv. and the project of the PDOOS is implemented to reclamate 37 municipal depots worth 97 million. lv. As you know, the payments under the Operational Programme "Environment" 2007 "2013" were suspended in November 2013. As a consequence of the suspensions of payments by the European Commission, the Ministry of Finance suspended the allocation of limits to the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme and for a period of nearly five months payments to the beneficiaries of the Programme were completely frozen. The suspension of payments to beneficiaries coincided with the active construction season, which seriously violated the financial flow in the recovery of the requested funds generated as a result of the implementation of the construction activities of the projects and the overall investment process. The European Commission recovered payments under the Operational Programme on 19 November 2014. At present, the efforts of the Ministry of Environment and Water are aimed at speeding up the process of building new regional systems that meet all the legal requirements and compliance with the timetable provided to the European Commission. Immediately after the introduction into service of the regional depots, the disposal of waste in the old municipal dumps is suspended. So far, seven new regional depots have already been put into operation in 2012, none of them have been in the period 2013 - 2014 and five regional depots since the beginning of 2015: Dobrich, Malko Turnovo, Burgas, Gabrovo and Vidin. Municipalities depopulate the waste generated in their territories on these newly built landfills. After their construction, the operation of 28 old municipal depots was terminated. The short-term measures we are taking to speed up the implementation of the projects are the following: rapid processing of documents and accelerated payment to beneficiaries, increased monitoring of risk projects by conducting regular meetings to monitor progress and on-the-spot checks, mobilize the beneficiaries to comply with the implementation schedules. At the same time, we continue the policy introduced by the changes in the regulations in force since 2011, which created the possibility for municipalities to be able to use these funds for recycling and after operational care, and to build new facilities. The operating municipal depots are still located in the regions that do not currently have new facilities. For their operation on an annual basis, the regional environmental inspection and water control plan shall provide for and carry out inspections. 168 inspections have been carried out so far for the period 2014 - 2015. Checks shall also be carried out at the decommissioned municipal depots. On the part of the regional inspections, single cases of waste disposal of municipal landfills have been identified, which have ceased operation. The mayors of these municipalities have been issued acts establishing an administrative infringement and corresponding criminal decrees. 13 acts for the identification of an administrative infringement have been issued for the period 2014 - May 2015. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm sorry, perhaps in the supplement to comment on the specific case that you mentioned.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u137	In answer to the two supplementary questions, Mrs. Vasileva. Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Georgiev, for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u138	Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I'm not satisfied with the answer you gave! It is obvious that the policy of closing dumps that do not meet the requirements is sluggish, bloated, not effective. The project, which is for the closure of the depots in the PUDO stands for the third year! Third year no funds are being used! And you're also telling me that checks have been carried out. So what if checks have been carried out? I gave you a specific example of Topolovgrad. Everyone saw it on BTV. And will this mayor be punished or because he is GERB we will close our eyes? [[Relations from BSL LB.]] Supported by GERB, it may not be precisely by GERB. And for this dump, for this municipality there is a regional depot and this is the depot in Harmanli. So there's no excuse here. I am waiting for a clear answer from you all offenders who allow themselves to dump household waste in landfills that do not meet the requirements will be punished and will strict control be carried out for this?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u139	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Georgiev! Yes, as you mentioned, the PUDO project has been implemented for the third year. Yes, there was undoubtedly a delay in the project. What we are doing is speeding up all activities so that it can end with a maximum utilisation rate of the funds that have been set aside for the purpose of closing 37 old municipal dumps. Why this has not been done in the previous two years, I do not wish to comment. However, in the specific case that you are quoting, I think it does not matter what the colour of the mayor is, which political force supports him, because the waste management policy is related not only to the achievement of environmental standards, but also to the care of our fellow citizens and the protection of their health. As regards the depot of the municipality of Topolovgrad quoted by you, according to information provided by the Regional Environmental and Water Inspectorate in Stara Zagora, it has been terminated since 2010. The generated waste from the municipality is transported and deposited to the Regional Depot Harmanli by the company. Topolovgrad. On 8 April 2015, an on-the-spot check was carried out by experts of the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection Stara Zagora, together with representatives of the municipal administration Topolovgrad. At the time of the inspection, there was no disposal of waste from cars of the city depot of Topolovgrad. The documents have also been examined and there is no difference in the quantities of waste submitted to the "BCCS" Ltd. for disposal and transmission between the municipality of Topolovgrad and the municipality of Harmanli. In addition, I assure you that the structures of the Ministry of Environment and Water are making every effort to carry out regular and effective control of all landfills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u141	Thank you, Minister Vasileva. Here you are, Mr. Georgiev, for your attitude. You're giving up. We move on to the next issue by the MP Slavi Binev on sanctions from the European Commission because of the regional depots. Here you go, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Madam Minister! My question is about the planned regional depot in Yambol. I'm going to say a few facts that will actually help your answer to be really specific. The EIA has expired when the project for expansion of the depot was submitted. This EIA is for a waste depot for the city of Yambol and is not intended for a regional depot for five municipalities. There are residential properties within meters of the depot of the wine cellars at 800 m, a sponge shop at 700 m, settlements at 1500 m, a monastery at 2500 m, which is a violation of a lot of the requirements it has for such a depot. According to the Basein's Directorate-General (SOC), Plovdiv is in real danger of groundwater pollution. Did you know that nine burial mounds from the fourth century before the new era will be destroyed? In fact, this is a problem that should be raised by people who have more cultural claims, but in the end, when they don't, it's nice to do it anyway. The planned capacity of the depot will be filled in two years and the investment is worth more than 15 million. Euros. I think that purely economically this does not correspond to the claims that should be there. To what extent will this information coincide with the information that you have, because I have noticed that on these issues we have a different information center, and we need to really see where this information goes wrong? My question is: what is the current state of the problem with regional depots that we can be seriously sanctioned by the European Commission for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u143	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Binev, The project "Establishment of a regional waste management system in Yambol region" is implemented by Yambol Municipality as a leading municipality in partnership with the municipalities Nova Zagora, Tundzha, Sliven and Straldzha. It is implemented under Operational Programme "Environment 2007" and includes the following activities: preparation and construction of a first cell from a regional depot with a capacity of 288 419 tonnes of waste; reconstruction of a leading road; closure and technical reconstruction of the depot with ceased operation in the municipalities of Yambol, Sliven, Nova Zagora and Straldzha; delivery of equipment for the operation of the regional depot and delivery of means of transport for separate collection. The EIA decision quoted by you was issued by the Director of the Regional Inspection "Stara Zagora," following an EIA procedure and approved the existence of the investment proposal for the realization of cells 1 and 2 for the disposal of non-hazardous waste in the villages of Hadjidimitrovo and the village of Dragevo, Tundzha municipality. The 2002 EIA decision was also reliant in 2005 by the Director of RIEW Stara Zagora, in accordance with the regulations in force at that time, and then acted on the implementation of the investment intention through subsequent approval procedures in order to serve those municipalities in the region. According to the National Waste Management Programme for the period 2003 - 2007, adopted by decision of the Council of Ministers, a regional principle for waste management in the Republic of Bulgaria was introduced. On the basis of the above, a complex permit of 2008 entered into force for the yard under the prescribed regulatory procedure. The Director of RIEW "Stara Zagora" has also put in place a 2008 Decision on the necessity of carrying out an environmental assessment, with the character of not carrying out an environmental assessment.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... For the investment proposal for the construction of linear infrastructure, a procedure was carried out to assess the need to carry out EIA and a decision was given to the Minister for Environment and Water of 2012, with the character not to carry out EIA. In 2011 and 2012, in relation to what you have cited as facts, appeals have been launched, a series of appeals and some cases have been brought against the administrative acts concerning the project concerning the construction of a regional waste management system in the Yambol region. They are related to the questions raised by you. The result of all these proceedings and all the decisions of the competent judicial authorities confirm the administrative acts issued and enable Yambol Municipality in partnership with the municipalities of Sliven, Nova Zagora, Tunja and Straldja to continue the activities of the project. The artifacts quoted by you are built and legalized by the municipality of Tundzha, despite the existence and exploitation of the old municipal depot, which borders on the envisaged new regional depot and in violation of the requirements for the standings at that time. Furthermore, it is important to note that the old depot has been in operation since 1968 and does not meet environmental requirements. As regards the treatment of the infiltration of the project, the construction of a retrosion pool is at stake. In the area of the depot is located a Thracian mound necropolis of ten tomb mounds. According to the technical design, the elements of the technical infrastructure do not affect the tombs or their security area. According to the project and the mass balance of the waste, the planned capacity of box 1, which will be built as a result of the project, will be completed in five years and not for two years and, respectively, the total capacity of the landfill comprising the four cells, will have a period of 30 and a half years of operation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u145	I apologize if you can navigate towards completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u146	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u147	Thank you. One minute more I gave you so that Mr. Binev could get information and make clear his line. Here you go, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u148	Yes, some of the answers are really satisfactory. There are some things that interest me, however, because you actually see that there are great problems with all the reserves. There is a thread here that connects all problems and has almost similar problems and tensions in the municipalities themselves. I don't know if you know this, but I recently received information from the very place where this depot should be made. I have to tell you, there's a big lake full of water out there right now. Even one of the people who lived nearby had put on a boat and pretended to fish. I can forward them to you, by the way, to see, because in my opinion, a lot of things are not technically done there. I want to help with my questions. I have to tell you, there's a great problem here. Someone, somewhere, has made a mistake. They've issued permission for a sponge shop, they've issued decisions. It is necessary to see who is wrong to make such decisions, because the very fact that someone has issued decisions and the law is being respected...................................... if it is not in the service of the people, so this law is wrong or someone has broken the smart law, which should somehow suit people. So you really need to see where the problem is and be removed, because these depots need to be made so that they are at the service of people and not against their interests. I think we need to find a solution somehow. I agree that there will never be as satisfied people as possible, that there should still be somewhere to depopulate these waste, but there must be a way for this to affect the least interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u149	Thanks for the line, Mr. Binev. Would you like a douche? Here you go. I see you've also brought pictures.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mr. Binev! Yes, I bring some photos that have been taken by colleagues who have carried out an urgent on-the-spot check on the concerns that you have expressed. On 4 and 5 June the colleagues were on the site and this is the picture of the site at the present time. [[Shows photos.]] Yes, the construction of the depot is undoubtedly delayed because of a series of factors, including court cases that have been going on over the years. This is a risk project, given the recent end of the eligibility period for expenditure under the operational programme, but I absolutely agree with you that building this infrastructure is a necessary prerequisite for ensuring all conditions for environmentally friendly treatment of waste and for protecting people's lives and health. There are certainly a lot of concerns. We are aware of this, but as I myself mentioned in my exhibition, in this particular case, in close proximity to the new regional landfill, which meets all European norms, is the old landfill that has been in operation since 1968. You can imagine the damage it does to the environment the maintenance of such a facility. So the new facilities meet the standards and requirements, and we monitor this as a competent office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u151	And I thank you for the well-exemplified ass. We move on to the next question to Minister Ivelina Vassileva, who is from the National Representative Manol Genov and concerns the Project for an integrated water cycle of the town of Asenovgrad. Mr. Genov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u152	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers! My question is this. Dear Minister, The project for the integrated water cycle of Asenovgrad aims to build a treatment plant, replace a water network, build new collectors. At the end of March, the project was approved by the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme "Environment" and was introduced into the European Commission for final approval and financing, as its value exceeded 100 million. lv. The project is intended to reconstruct more than 24 kilometers of sewerage, about 4.5 kilometers of water supply network and build a new collector and also a new sewage treatment plant. The co-financing by the municipality of 8,9% of the total value of the project was voted by the Municipal Council, there is such a solution. All project procedures have been completed. There's a contract coming up for his execution. Madam Minister, my question is: at what stage is the status of the project? When will the municipality of Asenovgrad have a signed contract with the managing authority? Is there an agreement from the European Commission on the implementation of the project? In the end, when will his execution take place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u153	Thanks for asking, Mr. Genov. The Minister of Environment and Water has the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, as well as you noted in your exhibition, during the 2007 programming period, after approval by the Managing Authority of the Operational Program, the project for the implementation of the integrated water cycle of Asenovgrad, which includes rehabilitation of the water network, as well as the construction of a waste water treatment plant for the services of 65 500 equivalent inhabitants, was submitted for approval by the European Commission at the end of 2012. The European Commission sent requests for clarification on issues related to VAT, State aid and others. After providing information and processing in accordance with the European Commission's requests, the project in its scope and content is agreed by Jaspers, which is one of the European Commission's instruments. Despite the initial plans for implementation of the project during the first programming period, the delay in the start of the project was due to the lack of readiness to launch the large volume of construction activities, the lack of action by the Ministry of Environment and Water from the end of 2013 and the beginning of 2014, the suspension of the funds under the OPs in the period November 2013 - 2014, which led to the inability to conclude new grant contracts, as well as the approaching deadlines for eligible expenditure under the Operational Programme. You know that negotiations with the European Commission on the new operational programme have ended. The new operational programme will follow the principles of water reform, namely regionalisation, consolidation and implementation of projects based on regional pre-investment studies. In order to enable the launch of construction activities on finished projects immediately following the approval of the new operational programme, the Ministry of Environment and Water has made a great deal of effort and has been able to negotiate with the Commission the implementation of the so-called early projects, amounting to around 500 million of resource 2 billion. 339 million, available for the water sector during the new programming period, respecting the principles of making investments in agglomerations of more than 10 thousand equivalents that fall within consolidated areas served by one water operator. The beneficiaries of the grant for the real projects will be municipalities. Among these early projects are the four major projects of Plovdiv, Dobrich, Pleven and Asenovgrad, i.e. Asenovgrad is one of them. The total value of the project at the initial submission to the European Commission is 109 million. lv. After excluding VAT as eligible expenditure and carrying out tender procedures, the total real value of the project is 81 million. BGN, which makes it a project which is subject to approval by the managing authority of the operational programme at national level. The project proposal of the municipality of Asenovgrad will be implemented during the programming period and our ambition is to conclude a grant agreement to be implemented by the end of 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u155	And thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u156	Dear Minister, I congratulate you on your efforts to implement these early projects because they were extremely important to the state, ecology and the people who live there. One of my questions is this. Since these municipalities are beneficiaries in this programming period, should they make new procedures for this? What prevents the conclusion of the contracts from happening earlier, having the Commission's approval? The end of 2015 is very imaginary and long term. They're chasing targets here, too. The objects are large. These are my two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u157	Thank you. That was actually a line in the form of a question. You're welcome to have a doppelganger in the form of answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u158	Thank you. In a nutshell, what we have achieved as an agreement with the European Commission, as I mentioned, is for the early projects to apply the principle valid for the previous programming period. Everything done so far by municipalities is a prerequisite for the rapid launch of activities on their projects. As far as purely procedural things are concerned, you know that under the rules of operational programmes and regulations, the calls for proposals must be approved by the monitoring committee of the programme, the beneficiaries should then be invited. All of this is intended to happen in a very fast order and in this sense to keep our commitment 2015 not to be another zero year. We hope that municipalities will start the activities as quickly as possible so that we can ensure a smooth transition between the old and the new operational programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u159	And thank you, Minister Vasileva, for the answers today. That was your last answer. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. We wish you a good day on your way! We move on to the next question to Mr. Tomislav Donchev - Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy, who will answer a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev regarding the absorption of funds from the European Union in violation of European legislation. You have the opportunity to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I didn't know I was the only one who would have a question today. My communication with you is at a level and I have commented with you on this issue, but today I will complement it, including some recommendations. This is a matter that we have discussed with you and the Commission and personally. He is under the prepared Law on the use of European funds. This Law is extremely important in view of the fact that EU funds and foreign direct investments are the two most important sources for financial resources for Bulgaria. I would like to thank you for the meetings we have had, because we have had the opportunity to go into depth of the problems, because the problem of foreign direct investment is currently serious, we have fallen in times compared to the previous year, which is one of the worst in this regard. That is why European funds are extremely important for the Bulgarian economy and state. The precise legal framework and its strict compliance is of fundamental importance for the quality absorption of European funds. My question is, in fact, will the two working groups drafting the new Public Procurement Act and the new European Fund Act pay attention to the enormous importance of the inextricable connectivity between the two laws? Is there a synchronization between these two laws? That's my first question. My recommendation is actually something we discussed with you, but maybe I didn't feel good about talking. It would be very helpful if representatives from the Parliamentary Commission for European Affairs and the Sub-Committee for Using European Funds were also involved in these working groups. Why? Because the executive can only benefit from the resources of the legislative power in drafting the bills. In such a dialogue, the right solutions may be found. This will also save time in subsequent debates in the National Assembly, as we will practically be part of the debates prior to the introduction of the laws to plenary and will shorten the time for the drafting and adoption of a single law. Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u161	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u162	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Binev, just to note that the reports show that foreign direct investments in Bulgaria have not only not fallen, but have increased. Of course, we are talking about values that are very far from my desires, from yours and what people expect and want. It's a small statistical marker. Otherwise, your question is extremely interesting, in so far as the new Public Procurement Act, the European Funds Act, is common between the two texts, is not only that they will be handled with a similar period of time. Yes, the fact is that both laws are ready, in a very advanced consultation phase with all interested parties. Only under the Public Procurement Act have we received over 670 proposals and opinions that we are currently reflecting. Including last week's recent consultations with socio-economic partners regarding the European Funds Act. And I expect them to be at the National Assembly's attention at the latest next month. I agree with you that any efforts in terms of prior consultation in committee format or outside committee format must be supported and implemented. You have my full support in this direction. The earlier in advance, the honourable Members are acquainted with the basic principles and the specifics of the texts, the less technical work they will have later in their work through committees and in plenary. Specifically on the subject. The two texts essentially govern both similar and different materials. Similar because these regulations determine how public funding will be allocated. That's the big resemblance. The difference is that the European Funds Act forms, determines the processes with regard to the allocation of free funding only by EU funds, while the Public Procurement Act refers first to a much wider range of countries. We are talking about all the entities - both public institutions, municipalities, agencies, ministries and companies in many of the hypotheses. However, the Public Procurement Act will distribute, including budget funding, both from the budgets of local authorities and funds from different companies. Yeah, you're right, the two texts should have the right dose of synchronization, despite the difference in the materials they settle. Is there a similarity and coordination in the development of the two texts? Yes, as far as in the broad sense of the word they are made by structures with which I work on both texts there are directly involved people from my team, both from the administration and from my office. The fact is that they are trying to rest on the same principles, because whether we are talking about distribution of free funding, or we are talking about setting a contractor under the Law on Public Procurement, we must follow several irresistible principles of transparency, lack of discrimination, private competition and best quality at the best price. These principles are valid for both texts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u163	And thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. The line
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u164	I'm satisfied with the answer. Only I may have read the statistics, which is official for January. Maybe there's a new statistic, and it really made up for those differences that were at that time. I definitely agree with the fact that the results, even if they have risen or are optimistic, are far from what we want as a country and must work in this direction. On behalf of the subcommittee, I would like to express our full willingness to always cooperate so that these laws can enter into force and eliminate all the opportunities that the European Union has had so far for abuse and criticism. We have spoken with you on this subject and I really thank you because we have had a dialogue that very quickly clears up the topics that have been between us. That's it, we're ready, we're always available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u165	Thank you, Mr. Binev. A hole? Dear Mr. Donchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u166	Dear Mr. Binev, first of all, two words in terms of economic indicators. The fact is that as a result of the favorable konncture, related to the price of the dollar, of oil, there is a revival in Europe in the Bulgarian economy. It is felt by both revenue in the budget and preliminary data on the growth of gross domestic product. There are also signs regarding the dynamics of foreign direct investment. But this height, this optimism is very fragile. And here I would like to say that all politicians have a common commitment to behave in such a way, to work in such a way as to encourage these signals in the Bulgarian economy, and not vice versa to put a rod in the wheels. This is our common commitment, and I believe here that, despite any political differences, we have reason for consensus. And a second comment. The quality of legislation is extremely important. This is undoubtedly important. But illusory would be the hope that only on the basis of good legislation will we guarantee good control. It is as if by consensus to decide, for example, that the National Assembly should pass a law on gross domestic product to become 160 billion and it will surely become one. That's not gonna happen. And here comes the essential topic of control. In Bulgaria there are too many control institutions that control often, control in a different way, in different methodology and nevertheless we continue to have cases where one mistake or another, something worse, one or another attempt at unlawful action, remains sometimes undetected. And that is the question: how do we implement the so-called smart control with a minimum of checks to catch as many violations as possible? This is a topic that has no direct bearing on both laws, but can be a matter of parliament's attention. That's our common concern. And there is not a single control body, however perfect, that can shift the functions of civil control, which includes the valor, the decency of every citizen when he sees something wrong instead of expressing dissatisfaction only in a narrow family circle to refer to the responsible institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u167	Thank you. This coat has exhausted your participation in the parliamentary control, dear Mr. Donchev. Thank you for your participation and we wish you a successful day. We continue with further questions from today's parliamentary control. They are to the Minister of Defense Mr. Nikolai Nenchev. The first question is from the MP Milen Mihov on the security measures taken in the conduct of the military parade on 6 May 2015. Docent Mihov, order the stand to develop your question regarding the military parade on 6 May.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u168	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! My question is about the organization and implementation of the military parade on 6 May and certain measures for the safety of this parade. During the preparation of the parade next to me as a representative of the National Assembly, information was reached that it was being prepared during the military parade on the occasion of the Day of Valor and the celebration of the Bulgarian army. The commanders of the representative blocks and issued an oral order to remove the prisons from the private weapon of the soldiers, students and sailors. To the question asked to you: "Who issued this humiliating for the Bulgarian Army?" which I made at a closed meeting of the Defence Commission on 7 May 2015, I received the answer that for you and the leadership of the Ministry of Defence this fact is unknown. Dear Minister, in relation to the above, I would like to ask the following question: who and on the basis of what powers has issued the humiliating order to remove the prisons of AK-47 during the military parade for the Day of Valor and the celebration of the Bulgarian Army 6 May, which has affected the honor and dignity of the Bulgarian Army? Respectfully.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u169	Thank you, Assoc. Mihov for the question. Dear Minister Nenchev, you have the opportunity to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u170	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mihov, in response to the question asked by you: which official and on the basis of what powers he has issued for downloading the prisons of a machine gun.......................................................................................................................................................... At the oral order of the commander of the parade and commander of the Land Forces Major General Botsev, the prisons of the loaded weapons of the soldiers involved in the parade have been removed. This was done in the execution of a prescription by the National Security Service and the Military Police Service for the purpose of non-accidents. Military formations involved in the parade have been checked by National Security Service and Military Police Service officers to implement the safety measures immediately prior to taking the places to conduct the same. This has been a practice established for years in order to implement adequate security measures and to prevent even inadvertently producing shots that could lead to irreparable consequences. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u171	Thanks for the answer, Mr. Nenchev. Here you go, Assoc. Mihov, for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u172	Dear Minister, with such an answer, it is in fact clear that orders have been issued, which have put in a situation of violation all participants in the parade in relation to the statutory duties of the Bulgarian servicemen. According to the Code for the Military Service of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 53: "Every serviceman personally is responsible for the proper storage and preservation of his weapons. Article 114, p. 9 introduces a duty for a serviceman to know to perfection and keep his weapons, equipment, ammunition, military and state property. Dear Minister, the etymology of the word "Parad" in many dictionaries is explained as a solemn review of the troops/military or part of the troops. It is known that the troops/military or part of the troops consist of personnel and weapons. The order to take down the prisons of a machine gun is a disabling of the personal weapon and thus turns the parade from the examination of the troops into a kind of procession. I am far from thinking that we can order a parade as an external service with a condition for number of participants, types and systems of weapons and fighting equipment. [[Radio.]] The purpose of this question is to put an end to this vicious practice, which puts the Bulgarian weapon in a humiliating position, declared with historical glory and victory! Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u173	Thank you, Assoc. Mihov. It's a hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u174	Thank you, Mr. Mihov, for the patriotic speech, I would just like to remind you that the National Security Service on the grounds of art. 22 of the Rules of Procedure of the Office shall use information from the Security and Public Order services, including the Ministry of Defence, to determine the degree of threat and security of the protected persons. On the basis of information received, the National Security Service shall carry out an analysis and evaluation and shall take joint security and security measures with the competent departments. In this sense, Mr. Mihov, all these actions have been taken with a view to the safety of the people. Thank you. [[Reply on the left: next time with wooden rifles!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u175	Thank you, Mr. Nenchev. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Atanas Zafirov on the use of honorary military forces and military orchestra of events outside the scope and in violation of the Code for the Military Service of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Please state your question, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! Firstly, I would like to say, in order not to ask myself again a remark from the President of the National Assembly that this question is my question, although it concerns a specific case again, again this same case on the island of Persin, rather concerns the functioning of the office, which you are in charge of and the way in which decisions are made in this office. As it became clear from my previous question, in a film posted on the Internet, on the site of the Military Television Channel and in a number of other media publications, including electronic, on 30 May 2015, on Belen Island, Persin in a private event...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u177	Mr. Zafirov, I remind you to stick to the subject of the matter. I think you've had time to put forward arguments on another subject. I remind you to stick to the subject of your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u178	Mr. Chairman, that's exactly what I'm doing, and please don't interrupt me. That's exactly what I'm doing. In a private event took part honorary military forces and military orchestra of the Bulgarian Army. It is the reason for the participation, I quote: "Volunteering to the memory of the victims of the Bulgarian Gulag. This is a quote from the Military TV channel, whatever that means "The Bulgarian Gulag." As the main organizer of the event are presented the Italian citizen Paolo Cortezy and the Union of Repressed. From the film it is clear that the honor guard presents the gums to a plate placed by the political power to which the defence minister belongs. Isn't that right, Mr. Minister, it's placed by BZNC this honorary tablet? And concerning a controversial moment in the country's latest history. Article 609 of the Statute for the Military Service of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria is the norm concerning an event of similar nature, namely: laying wreaths before monuments and graves. However, the same norm is explicitly stated and stated: "Of those who have died for the freedom of the homeland, indicating the days on which this is permitted. [[the President signals that time has run out]] , the national holiday, the Day of Bravery and other days by decision of the Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u179	I'm asking your question, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u180	Please tell me, Minister, what is the day of May 30th? Please, you gave the others, you interrupted me, 30 seconds to finish!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u181	Yeah, finish up. I'm giving you a chance, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u182	It is not clear, Mr. Minister, what day is exactly 30 May 2015. What requires the participation of military forces and military orchestra of the Bulgarian Army, given which I ask you to answer the following question: who gave permission for the participation of soldiers in this event? By which member of the Military Service Statute and by what motives? They've been protected. 567 of the Statute, according to which the purpose of the military rituals is to form and maintain patriotic motivation as well as the validation of the Bulgarian national identity and statehood among the society, as well as of art. 571, which explicitly provides for a ban on servicemen from bearing wreaths of public, political and non-governmental organisations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u183	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. One minute was delayed, but it was important, so I hope you appreciate my gesture. Here you are, Minister Nenchev, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u184	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zafirov, worshiping the island of Persin does not, in my opinion, refer to a controversial case, but to an absolutely indisputable moment in our new history and is entirely in the spirit and letter of the Law. I remind you that by a law of 2000 the communist regime established in 1944 with the help of a foreign force that declared war on Bulgaria and in violation of the current Tarnovo Constitution was declared criminal. It is a historically proven fact that in the death camps, including Belene, decent people were sent, opposed to the arbitrariness of power. Most people, of course, you mentioned here, have been repressed by BZNS, but there have also been thousands of Social Democrats, Democrats, National Liberation and Unification Fighters, even anarchists, Orthodox, Catholic priests, Protestants, pastors, minority representatives and all suffered together. The terrible humiliations were subjected to worthy Bulgarian wars. Only in the period 1951-1953 during the camp of Belene pass through the attention of the 92 highest Bulgarian officers. Many of them are heroes of the Balkan Wars, the First and Second World War. Many find their death in this camp, and under unexplained circumstances. I would like to emphasise that article. 4 of the Law declaring the communist regime in Bulgaria criminal states: "All actions of persons who during that period were aimed at resistance and rejection of the communist regime and its ideology are fair, morally justified and worthy of honor. This Law you have done, Mr. Zafirov. This means that during this period, not the employees of the power structures of the regime, but the sufferers of Belene and other camps of death have truly served their people. The worship of the island of Persin is organized annually by the Union of Repressed in memory of all those who were innocently convicted, cruelly tortured and found their death there. I inform you that the servicemen have participated under my oral order in compliance with the provisions of the Statute of the Military Service of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, I quote: The President of the National Assembly and the Minister of Defence attended the memorial service. In coordination on the ground, it has been decided that the honor guard should not be executed in order to avoid unnecessary solemnity, which, in our opinion, is not suitable for the occasion. The servicemen have served wreaths that were from the official authorities by the President of the Republic, by the President of the National Assembly and by me as Minister of Defence. All the other guests brought their own flowers. The wreaths were placed on the only memorial plaque in memory of the victims of the criminal communist regime on the island of Persin. I would very much like it if your party would one day put a record there so that I could someday put my flowers there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u185	Thank you for your answer, dear Minister. Would you like a line? Here you are, you have two minutes, and I hope this time you'll fit in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u186	I'll be punctual, thank you. Dear Minister, there have been many violations of the Statute, we have just heard of another one. That's why I'm allowing myself to ask you, have you read this Statute? You answered me exactly as I expected, not as Bulgarian Minister of Defence, but as a party functionary of the Bulgarian Agricultural People's Union. I'm sorry, I'm not satisfied with your answer, but I'll accept it under one condition. Mr. Minister, tomorrow in the village of Partizani, the municipality of Zdrazopol, we will mark the traditional June pilgrimage to the memory of 18 shot anti-fascists. I'd like to ask you from this platform: will you send an honorary company, a military orchestra and a wreath from the Ministry of Defense to this event? And if you answer me that you didn't know and there's no time, consider it a notification. Worship is at 5:00 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u187	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Would you like a douche? You do not want, with which the questions to the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev for today are exhausted. We wish you a good day from now on! We move on to the next series of questions, they are two, to the Minister of Education and Science. Both questions are from the MP Borislav Iglev. The first question is about a higher education strategy. Here you are, Mr. Iglev, to formulate your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u188	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! On 26 February 2015 the Strategy for the Development of Higher Education of the Republic of Bulgaria was voted in plenary during the period 2014 - 2020. It can highlight many positive aspects. Modernization of higher education and preparation of innovative and motivated specialists, strengthening the competitiveness of higher education are only part of them. Unfortunately for me, there is something extremely important and important missing in the Higher Education Strategy, namely sport. The sport, Minister Tanev, should not be ignored. Sports in higher education institutions even less. It is extremely upbringing and tempers character, builds personality qualities, and contributes to the favorable development of a young person. We all strive to raise a generation that is strong, to prosper. Sports create such people.. winners. In this regard, I want you to answer me: why is the sport absent in the Strategy for Higher Education? What does the Ministry of Education and Science, together with the Ministry of Youth and Sport, do for the development of sports in higher education institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u189	Thank you, dear Mr. Iglev. Minister Tanev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u190	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Iglev, I am extremely pleased to answer your question. Unfortunately, not every strategic document is very well written, and I believe that this, in fact, as you pointed out, a well-written document, the Higher Education Strategy, and it has gaps. This was done, as you said, before this Chamber of the Ministry and the National Assembly. I am not sure whether it makes sense to be supplemented yet, as he does not argue with what we all want, including you. It is a general framework, the strategy is not a plan. I can formally answer you, as the people of the Ministry have written me some things, and I will mark them, that this Strategy is no more than a framework document; that it really is about quality, access, increasing the share of graduates in the country, as required by Europeans by us; also that there should be a better link between higher schools and the labour market; that we should become a regional centre of modern higher education, take care of the quality and finance it above all; there are even such aspects in this document that besides education we should focus on the personal expression, and not only on students, but also on lecturers. This includes sports activities already. So far, we've been moving on a document that may still have people who have, allegorically speaking, living memories. It's July 11, 2000, that's 15 years ago. According to him three leva are given to a student for a school year and are given to the students only in regular form of training for all higher schools, and the sport is organized department, at least in state universities, as a selective discipline. I can also say to justify in quotes that the Ministry of Education and Science takes care of higher education and the coordination, control and implementation of state policy in the field of physical education and sport according to the current legislation is the care and responsibility of the minister responsible for physical education and sport respectively. I'm not satisfied with that. It does not satisfy not only you, it does not satisfy the mothers and fathers of all children who are also obese, and so on We have a joint task force and we are in constant communication. For the time being, my goal is to restore compulsory training, my colleague Kralev calls it a "sport education" in schools and higher schools as well as in many places around the world. This is not just about the use of coaches in one sport or another. It is not about the use of basketball or basketball, and as far as schools are concerned, it is about athletics at all, at all, about what strengthens health, but I would say, let us not forget the spirit. Those Batkovians, who are the coaches, are people who are neither parents nor teachers, and often they are a reference. They should have education, should also be a reference for behavior, role model, socialization, Bulgarianity. We mean all this with colleague Kralev. However, what I will propose to you, Members of the National Assembly, very soon, is a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education. A part of it will be devoted to this extremely dramatic issue... the compulsory sports education for students. As for the school part of compulsory education, this is now in your hands. Here at second reading is the Law on preschool and school education. I hope that's where it's gonna be! I ask for help when the time comes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u191	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Iglev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u192	Minister Tanev, thank you for the comprehensive answer. I'm glad you started working together with the Ministry of Youth and Sports, which is quite good news. Sports in many universities are mandatory, not as you said optional.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u193	The law is mandatory.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u194	I hope you won't ignore sports in higher education institutions. If you have the opportunity, it may be appropriate to conduct consultations. Thank you, however, for working together with the Ministry of Youth and Sports, which is good news for everyone who is excited about mass sports, about professional sports in universities that develop sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u195	Thank you, Mr. Iglev. Here's your coat, Minister Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u196	And thank you for understanding. I would like to say once again that I rely on a fuller room when we look at this issue. He's as educational and educational as the question of mathematics or anything else. I just made a mistake, lapsus. I know it's mandatory, but it's a specific sport. We don't need non-professional basketball players necessarily. I was talking about mass compulsory sports, including I mean that this is formally performed in many places. Not to be formal! And for the choirrooms. So that's what my colleague Kralev and I are thinking about. I will be happy with you, too, personally and with all those who are related to the other parliamentary groups, because it is a common issue. It's a national issue, not a party issue. To have as much feedback as possible, for which the minister of education's office, whoever he is, is open to me or anyone else.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u197	Thank you, dear Minister. The second question is also from the MP Borislav Iglev regarding the leaked information about the exams. Here you are, Mr. Iglev, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u198	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister Tanev, Dear colleagues! The subject has been quite discussed over the last few days. On May 20, 2015, a mature literature exam was held. Hours before the beginning of the exam in the social network Facebook appeared information about the author who will fall in the exam. The information was released on Facebook "Peyo Yavorov" profile, which wishes success to the adults of tomorrow's exam. The exact words that are published are: Good luck to all tomorrow! I hope you taught me well! Information also came out in Nova TV about a person who offers the correct answers to the exams in Bulgarian and geography. The package was at 200 leva. In front of the reporter, the dealer of the exam replies claims that there are the right people in the Ministry of Education who prepare the exam options and provide information. After consulting the Ministry of Education and Science, it is found that the purchased are the same as the Ministry's, and the trader has confused only one answer. In this regard, I ask you to answer: has a check been carried out at the Ministry of Education and Science regarding the leak of the information about the exams and what has it found? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u199	Thank you, dear Mr. Iglev. Minister Tanev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u200	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Iglev, the wording of the question is We need to define what the "exit" means. It means that the Ministry of Education and Science has gone somewhere, because the other definition could be a rewrite on site. Which one? I guess it's about the first one. We turned immediately to the Ministry of Interior, which, by the way, with its representatives was in the days of composing the exams. Those were twenty days, and on the day itself, on the spot. Nevertheless, we have been fully cooperative. News from a few hours ago is that Commissioner Hristo Terziyski of the General Directorate of the National Police (National Police) said it was an administrative violation of the export of information, but not from the Ministry of Education. That is, the first hypothesis does not exist. The Ministry of Education this year has done its job. The task was generated in front of me. If we can talk about what moved out, I repeat, to this day in the media, strangely, with the same 10 leva. You can go shopping twice. It seems that this will continue until autumn, where there is no problem with it being created. There's another problem you can't talk about. We'll take precautions for the other. We've taken as many tightening measures as possible in the Ministry's capacity. We've sent 14 teams to look at the places where there are doubts. They gave very good results. From 6th to 600th place, as they say, some fell. Why there? Not because it's Ardino, but because at this particular school in Ardino almost all works last year, the 41st question, were identical. What if it's not cheating?! Right now we've got 84 of the same jobs, but not from this school. We keep collecting them. They're even the same. We are talking about mass cheating, perhaps not so massively, but it undermines the quality of secondary education, its respect, and especially the fate of these children, most of which are honestly present at these exams. With force methods, we won't get far. We have over 5,000 halls during our exams, which is way over 10,000 Quaestors. The second possibility of leaking out of place, freely or inadvertently involving, or without participation, by phone outside or hiding and closing the eyes of a particular Quaestor, is perhaps something in the order of a hundred places. Out of 10,000, a hundred. No more. We suspect he has it. At the moment where there is a cheating, we look at the video footage to see what was inside the behavior where it has been proven is the only proof of rewriting when the text is identical. We don't have anything else. And we're not a police authority. And the police won't do it that way. By the 19th we collect all the information we have from directors, not from the RIO, but directly from directors. We've released a button from the Ministry of Education. You'll see it from the back of the site where we collect all kinds of opinions. It's never been done before. The public will be able to speak. We have to, we have set it as an assignment by 18 September (the last deadline) to have a new regulation for conducting the exams in another way next year in order to reduce the possibilities for deviation. Never, in any form, could anyone in my place guarantee that they wouldn't cheat. Everyone cheats in their lives. I'm sorry, there may be angels, but they're exceptions. But when he's doing his exams, that's different. The main problem of the current system is philosophical. Philosophy is wrong. We don't have the soil for an adult, that is, for the minimum when someone has crossed the border. We just arrange from 3 up to 6 and make a floating rock. This is wrong. But we're going to look for the least shaking system and a gradual form to achieve these things. I can conclude that the Ministry of Education this year did the maximum within the existing legislation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u201	Thank you, dear Professor. Tanev. Mr. Iglev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u202	Dear Minister Tanev, thank you for the comprehensive answer. The practice of exporting information from the Quaestors has been for years, and it's not a secret to the Ministry of Education and Science, I guess. You yourself stated days ago that there was an organisation in this activity, which sounds disturbing. In practice, there is a trade with knowledge or rather with ignorance. The Ministry should take measures to minimise such practices which undermine the entire trial process. Do you think about what to change in the coming years, and can you set a specific example? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u203	Thank you, Mr. Iglev. Minister Tanev, please come in for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u204	Such information and suggestions from the past years of these accumulated identical errors there are whole folders. The same problems are repeated every year. I don't know why my ancestors haven't taken the measurements so far, but I think I'll take them. I'm very confident. It's one of the things that hurts me and the management around me. We are currently thinking about such measures, but perhaps one of them will be putting on a base, on a threshold, a kind of minimum state requirements according to the Regulation that currently exists as a adult. From now on the arrangement of those who have endured or are above the minimum, this is philosophy and not floating rocks as it is now. The other thing we will probably be discussing the first is still probably a strong decrease in the duration of the exam. There is scientific evidence, there are examples in other countries that test methods, which are relatively close to the brainstorming, give other results, which are sometimes much more accurate. However, we must be careful and study foreign experience adaptively, because its direct application in Bulgaria in the current system is not good. Thirdly, if the Law on pre-school and school education is finally adopted and the opportunities for emphasis on the student's personality are untied, obviously medial methods, such as the exam, measure on average all the different children. We differ even by the fingerprint of our fingers, by tastes and by preferences, we want children to think about themselves and arrange their own lives, and we measure them in these exams as they are at the moment, as average, which there is no average. You'll have to think a lot. I think the exams were quickly submitted, they were imported in a misguided democratic way. Let's fix it, keep it democratic, but also perfect it. I am very fond of the knowledge of the teachers in the first place, probably presented through the union of Bulgarian teachers, as well as my Deputy Minister Vanya Kastreva, and Kostadinova, and all others who currently summarize the accumulated years of observations, as well as the new ones that did not exist and what we currently have. There is a determination to do something, and not to be separate measures, but to be in sync, to be a system. Not individual tools, but a whole new philosophy on which to have a toolkit to be a system.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-12.u205	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control, the time for which you have run out. The next plenary session is extraordinary, on Tuesday from 11:00 to 18:00 with a Program voted by the National Assembly. Have a nice Saturday and Sunday! We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
