ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u1	There is a quorum, I am opening the plenary session. Honourable Members, I suggest to your attention the discussions of the Conference of Presidents a little earlier this morning Draft program for the work of the National Assembly for the time of 21 23 January 2015: 1. First vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Public Procurement Act. Importers suppose Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. 2. Updated Strategy for continuing judicial reform. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 3. Project for a decision to release the governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. Importers svetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. 4. Second vote on the Bill on the Court of Auditors. Importers - Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. This is intended to be the first item for Thursday 22 January 2015. 5. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. 6. First vote on the bill amending the Tourism Act. 7. First vote on the Draft Law amending the Chemical Weapons Ban Act and on the control of toxic chemicals and their precursors. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 8. Project for a Decision on the adoption of a Strategy for the Development of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014-2020. Continued by our legislative programme over the past week. 9. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act. 10. Parliamentary control under art. 91-103 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly. With the clarification that if we finish with the legislative part of the programme, the control will be on Friday at 9.00 p.m. Please let us vote on your proposed Programme Project. Vote 182 MPs: for 171, against none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u2	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u3	Program procedure? Here you go, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! It is a parliamentary tradition that the important items on the agenda be item one: it is evident from this agenda project. For example, point four, whether we get to it or not, the second vote on the Bill on the Court of Auditors is explicitly stated that it will be point one for Thursday. By virtue of this same logic and in full harmony with parliamentary traditions, it is perfectly natural that item two of today's agenda should be item one, unless you explain to us that there would be an unknown logic for the points to be arranged in this way. Is there anything we don't know? Is point one a condition of support for point two of some political forces? If not, it is perfectly natural for item two to be item two on the agenda. This is the most important topic not only for the week, but perhaps for the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u5	And you're proposing a change of order.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u6	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u7	Mr. Mestan, we discussed at the Chairman's Council what our program should look like. There were no objections from any parliamentary group. The only argument that is not strongly linked to binding conditions for support is the shortness of point one and the need for a quick amendment to the Public Procurement Act in view of the content offered in this bill. Either way, there is a duly made procedural proposal to exchange the place in the time of the two points. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Mestan's proposal point two............................................................................................ [[Replys from the Pf parliamentary group]] Please, guys! Whenever there is an agenda adopted, there is an opportunity under our Rules of Procedure for a change in the order of the points to be made on a proposal from Members of the National Assembly. I am obliged to put this motion to a vote, and the plenary with a vote by the individual MPs with a common opinion will give an answer to this proposal whether it is respected or not. I put to the vote Mr. Mestan's proposal, point two, a strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary, to be point one, and point one, to make the first vote on the Draft for Supplement to the Public Procurement Act point two. Please vote. Vote 187 MPs: 35 against 87, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 14 January to 21 January 2015: Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land. Importers sveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons. Importers shutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons. Importers shutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Project for a decision to release the governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. Importers svetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A bill to supplement the Public Procurement Act. Importers suppose Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importers. "Roumen Yonchev and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance will see it and the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. Importers "St. Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Atanas Atanasov." The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Administration. Importers - Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the committee responsible for this bill. On 15 January 2015 the National Statistical Institute received information on consumer price indexes for December 2014. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, there will be a declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam Vice Prime Minister, Ministers! Before the New Year, the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms announced that it started a painting of the political repression and every Wednesday here, from this platform, will read the names of the deprived of its constitutional right to work and bread in the public administration Bulgarian citizens. [[(crowd cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, ……]] Bulgarian citizens who have the necessary censure, experience, have gone through a competition procedure and meet the official characteristics. They have only one single guilt.. recognized are in one way or another as close to the DPS. The repressions to which these Bulgarian citizens are subjected have nothing to do with the correct thesis of a new quality of political dialogue and a new national democratism. Brutally fired are victims of the political repression of two xenophobic parties, already two, by the ruling majority of the Patriotic Front and the Reformation bloc. We owe this black statistics and detailed information to the Bulgarian society, to our European and Atlantic partners. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u9	Colleagues, please order in the court.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u10	In less than a month, 30 more people have lost their jobs, with them the living chronicle of political repression already contains 295 names. And before I read the names of the victims, I'd like to make an important point, because this morning again, we heard the suggestion that the people who were fired were uneducated. That is why I will illustrate that the DPS does not have appointed staff without higher education. I will read each of the repressed with his respective education so that you can see: - Musa Cemal Palev, higher education - fired Mohammed Asanov Rushidov, higher education, agronomic engineer appointed in his place Antonela Donusheva by GERB; - fired Ayse Avdikova, Master of Finance, PhD student, no appointment in her place; - fired Raim Zaydenov, higher education, public administration, has not been appointed in his place; - fired Susanna Chacheva, higher education - fired eng. Yordan Boshnakov, higher education Master's degree, forest engineer, also Master's degree in computer systems and technologies, appointed in his place Plamen Poykov by GERB; - fired eng. Dimitar Terziev, higher education, a forest engineer appointed in his place Vasil Stambrov by GERB; - fired Yordanka Kukova, higher education - fired Vanya Yankova, an important fact.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - fired Atanas Stoyanov Tyankov, higher education "Lessor" with 38 years internship in the system, he was appointed Goro Gorov by GERB; - fired Ibrahim Ismail Ibrahim, higher economic education appointed in his place Yordan Raev by GERB; - fired Beyhan Ahmed Etem, higher education, no one appointed in his place; - fired Tanner Nuri Faizula, Master of Economics, was appointed Rositsa Maslarska by GERB; - fired Gursel Emin, higher education, economic, appointed in his place Mrs. Gocheva by GERB; - fired Vassil Lazarov, a university graduate of the University of Lesotech, was appointed, notice, temporary acting (i.e.) Zdravko Todorov; - Fired Anna Emilova Blagoeva Master of Law, appointed in her place, again as e.d., Galya Machorska; - fired Silvia Georgieva Dimitrova, higher education "Economist from the UNWE," in her place appointed, again i.e., Georgi Ivanov Mitov; - fired Eileen Mehmed "Master of Law, appointed in her place, again et cetera, Petar Petrov; - fired Ivana Georgieva Veleva, Master of Law from Sofia University, has no appointment in her place; - fired Maria Stoyanova Balcheva, again Master of Law, has no appointment in her place; - Fired Plamen Salchov Jihanov, higher education Master-Lesser, with 18 years internship in the system, he was appointed Slavcho Ivanov Vassilev by GERB; - fired Doctor of Science eng. Geno Nikolov Peev, as I pointed out already, a doctor of forestry science with 33 years of experience in the system, was appointed Jordan Georgiev Yordanov by GERB; - fired Yordan Paralyov, higher education, economist, was appointed Dimo Belev by GERB; - fired eng. Ali Marekov, higher education Master, again with 18 years internship in the system, in his place comes Nikolai Yanchev from GERB; - fired Maidon Ahmedov Sakadzhiev, with 13 years internship in the system, higher education - fired Yusnier Aslanova Alilova, with 8 years of internship in the system, graduated from the Agricultural Economy and Master of International Relations, was appointed Nora Stoeva from GERB; - fired Ismail Sabriev Akabakov, higher education engineer, in his place there is no appointed; - fired Toma Yulyanov Terziev, higher education, economist with more than 12 years of experience in the system, in his place comes Petar Dimitrov; - fired Tsvetomir Anatoliev Georgiev, higher education - fired Jelial Ahmedov, higher education Master of Public Administration, has not been appointed in his place; - fired Petyo Yanev, higher education - fired Nordan Gafoorova, higher education Master of Economics, not appointed in her place; - fired Tihomir Radoslavov, higher education Master of Law, has not been appointed in his place; - fired Nora Todorova, higher education - fired Zlatka Genova Yordanova, with higher education, notice, with 21 years of experience in the system, Mariana Dimitrova was appointed by GERB; - fired Toncho Slavchev Ivanov again with higher education, 13 years of internship in the system and in his place until today there is no appointment; - fired Ilyan Karamedova, Master of Economics; Stanimir Stanchev from the UDF was appointed; - fired Levent Ismailov [[Lowered voice, DSS lines]] • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - fired Nilyay Bajraktarova, higher education, pedagogical; no one appointed in her place; - fired Gyunayden Kyasimov with higher education, Bachelor of Economics; Detelina Yankova was appointed by GERB; - fired Aidoan Jellyel from higher education, Master of Agricultural Engineering; Mihail Mihaylov from GERB was appointed in his place; - fired Gyunayden Kyasimov from Bachelor of Economics; Detelina Yankova from GERB was appointed to him; - fired Ibryam Gavaz. Higher education, Master of Law; no one appointed in his place; - fired Necati Chaushev from higher education, forest engineer, master; in his place Borislav Dimov from GERB was appointed; - Dowd Ibryam. Higher education, master agronomist, and also has received several prizes for work in the field of environmental protection.. fired; there is no appointment in his place; - Valia Tomova was fired from higher education, Master, civil engineer; Galya Panayotova was appointed by GERB; - fired Darina Peneva. Higher education, agroeconomics and also a Master's degree in state and municipal finances; to this day no one is appointed to her place; - fired Tanner Mumyun Emin, Master of Public Finance; in his place was appointed Venelin Asenov by GERB; - Kadir Shabanaliev Isov was dismissed from higher education, Master of Economics; in his place was appointed Dobri Pelivanov by GERB [[(noise and lines in the hall, comments from GERB: Time!]] . As I hear shouts about the end of time, I thank you for the signal, colleagues. Yes, he reminds us that 10 minutes is not enough to bring up multiple layoffs. [[Loud noise and lines.]] That is why we will continue to read them next Wednesday. As stated by our commitment, the prime minister of the lively chronicle of political repression in the European Commission and the European Parliament is coming next. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u11	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. [[(Comments from GERB: The Archives are alive!]] On behalf of the parliamentary group Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u12	Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable Members! This memorial, which read the gentleman from the DPS, I will continue it, only in a slightly different context, because you know that at the time this committee was going, I was doing parallel research and it turned out to be something terrifying! What DPS and BSP have done in a few months, as I told you before, there is no reaching! I will read you a few figures: for the first four months of their management in Blagoevgrad, 86 people were fired in four months, of which only by the DGS, this is a.12 people in the first month. In Burgas there are 44 fired, in Varna "29," in Vratsa "45," Pazardzhik........................................................ in Pleven....................................................................................................................................................................................... I will not continue with these numbers, but I will go to the specific names, because all these people who read Mr. Stanislavov [[zab. This is about the MP Stanislav Anastasov from DPS]] , are people appointed during the time of DPS and BSP. They've never been in the system and no matter how much education they have when you don't have the necessary internship and professionalism, you hang like a spider in the air! [[Laughter and lines from GERB.]] I just want to tell you that for the first six months under the Ministry of Interior Act, 13 people have been fired. In the management of GERB for three years there are 750. In just six months, they've done as much as we have in our department in three years, but let's move on to the categories I've named myself. I've separated four categories. Then, unfortunately, I couldn't read this report, and now I have a wonderful opportunity to introduce you to him. Four categories were in the previous government: longtime employees and directors, left by us, who are not members of GERB, fired by the three coalitions of BSP, DPS and Ataka. The Director of the Water and Water Agency Stara Zagora was left behind and worked during the time of GERB when you came you fired him. He's a member of the BSP. In fact, our Mayor Zhivko Todorov appointed him to work. From Kardzhali Labor Inspectorate because I'm an addict, you fired a man with 20 years of experience. His name is Kostadin Stratiev, and you appointed Ömer Lütfi, who was a buyer, an accountant, worked in a bank office, but notice, he is Chairman of the DPS in Momchilgrad. A man who doesn't have a hal haber from this job was appointed in the Social Assistance. But a man with a 20-year internship was fired. I can talk about these people a lot, but I will move on to the next category because it is more interesting: back from the time of the three coalition, I called them Chavdar Georgiev Deputy Minister. In his day one of the criminal procedures of the European Union against Bulgaria was imposed. [[GERB's lines and laughter.]] DGS "Tsarevo" "Petko Arnaudov," Chairman of BSP Tsarevo. As mayor of Tsarevo, authorizes the construction of an illegal complex of Golden Pearl and other attempts to build a park. I will now read to you: the new Director of the National Park "Central Balkan" - Hristo Bashev, third on the list of DPS in Gabrovo for the last (front) parliamentary elections, Chairman of the municipal organization of the DPS, replaces Anton Stanchev a longtime employee in the Park, Master of Biology with a GS. In Pazardzhik "Society assistance", Tsvetelina Arapova, PR of DPS, without the necessary internship. In Vidin the Labour Inspection Directorate was appointed Todor Valchev a member of the DPS, without qualification, Elin Andreev, former MP of the DPS in Devin, head of the RIEW in Tarnovo. In Silistra, Stoyan Bonev, appointed Suzette Ismet, municipal adviser to the DPS, chairman of the group of DPS, an engineer without internship. Ilian Paschali "MDPS" - croupier, narrator in the lottery, posted by Nikopol, without economic education, in the Labour Inspectorate. I will not talk about the partying, but, come on, I will say a few words: in Pleven the director becomes Radoslav Ilievski, a former MP in the ranks of BSP, a former member of the Transport and Communications Commission. Regional Directorate of Agriculture in Silistra is headed by youth leader of DPS Samet Mehmed. At the Labour Bureau, Vidin, appointed Director Milcho Tsokov, a longtime activist of BSP. Now I will tell you people who are fired from GERB, who are members of GERB, municipal councilors from GERB, who show their clear position and their clear political attitude, and they were expelled in the lowest way. How about Asim Ademov Director, Municipal Advisor of GERB, 20 years internship in the system; Selime Kardzhalieva, Villas Tsvetkova I'm talking about people who have proven their professional experience, not just bought diplomas. And I would like to ask: Mr. Anastasov, do you have a degree from the Technical University of Munich? You, with your unproven education, are you talking to me about education? [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u13	Mr. Anastasov, you asked for the floor before this, but I would not give it to you because she said Mr. Stanislavov and she did not mention it by name, but after that, I can't help but give you a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u14	Mrs. Karayancheva, no, I don't have a degree from the Technical University of Munich, I'm a semester graduate. I have a modest diploma from Sofia University and from New Bulgarian University. Since you're an engineer, let me remind you that the numbers are those symbol signs that mark one, two, three, and the numbers are those things that you're talking about. [[Reply from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] That's not important. More importantly, I will continue reading this list next Wednesday. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I'm gonna need a lot more circles to read that list until yours is done today. This is precisely the difference in the scale of political repression.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u15	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Mr. Chavdar Georgiev, personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u16	Dear Mrs. Karayancheva, I would be flattered if I had heard this definition of my own humble persona from someone else's mouth, but you making assessments of the personal qualities of certain people seems too self-confident and inappropriate to say otherwise. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] When you deal with what I've done at the Ministry of Environment and Water, what was done in my time to manage waste, to protect protected areas and so on and give an objective assessment, then I would agree to argue with you. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u17	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Any other personal explanations?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u18	Dear ministers, dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues, the evaluation for your work gave it Brussels, the evaluation for your work gave it to the people so that no matter how many memorials you read from this tribune, people remember. People know and are disgusted by what you have done in a year and a half because this genocide, which you have applied to Bulgarian citizens, on experienced professionals with education and experience, will not be able to be repeated, for joy, but for your grief. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u19	Thank you. I hope we are done with the personal explanations and we can move on to the real part of today's sitting. First item: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLAINTING THE LAW FOR PUBLIC PROCUREMENTS. Importers suppose Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. Mr. Kirilov, please come in for a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Public Procurement Act, No 554-01-5, submitted by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 15 January 2015. At its meeting held on 15 January 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Supplement to the Public Procurement Act with that number and importers. The bill was presented by Mr. Daniel Kirilov. The proposed addition to the Public Procurement Act provides for exclusion from the scope of the general order for procurement of the activities of building a protective engineering facility from an obstruction of type along the Bulgarian-Turkish border. In order to protect national security, as well as in view of the commitment of the Republic of Bulgaria to guard the external borders for the European Union, it is necessary to take timely measures to ensure the crossing of the border in accordance with the Bulgarian legislation. The discussion was attended by Mr. Chetin Kazak, Mrs. Maya Manolova, Mr. Petar Slavov. During the discussion Mr. Kazak objected to the adoption of ad hoc amendments and the introduction of new exceptions to the implementation of the general order. Mrs. Manolova expressed her personal support to the Bill given the urgency of the situation. Mr. Slavov pointed out that quick measures are needed to avoid severe consequences. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 11 votes for the Public Procurement Act, No 554-01-5, submitted by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 15 January 2015..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Opinion on behalf of the importers? I won't. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, Members of Parliament. Mr. Angel Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria will support the proposal for a change in the Public Procurement Act. We will support it despite the temptation, figuratively speaking, to return it to you because of what happened in the previous Parliament on this subject, and despite certainly the inappropriate but understandable gloat that a person may experience a year later when he sees a change in the positions of some of the importers who have signed the proposal for a change in the Public Procurement Act. [[Noise and lines.]] Time is timed anyway, so no one will be harmed. I will take everything that happened a year ago in parliament on the subject of the fence along the border, on the emotions of those days, and I will accept that one year later the problems related to procedures, deadlines, respectively the way in which the security facility along the border can be built are realized. We have a much greater challenge ahead of us than the usual parliamentary entrances, and every day a delay in building the facility brings additional burden to the people involved with border guards and, of course, brings growing costs. Much more important than this, however, much more important than the trial to which the administration is being put, is that the risks to the country's security and the delayed or inadequate response, in general, make these risks a direct threat to the state. These are risks and, accordingly, threats not only related to the potential threat of terrorist acts. These are risks and threats that are also related to the burden of social systems, integration procedures, the financial opportunities of the country and the overall health situation. This is the understanding that leads us also when we defined our attitude to the proposal for amendments to the Public Procurement Act. Moreover, in the interests of the citizens, and not only the Bulgarians, it is to find an acceptable solution both as a procedure and as deadlines and as transparency and control opportunities. As a procedure, I will not dwell on the chosen version of the amendment to the Public Procurement Act by supplementing the exceptions in it that are not subject to the general order with a notice. The law provides other options for such types of decisions, but I accept the choice of importers of this amendment. And that's not what's embarrassing. What is disturbing is that the proposed approach does not include sufficiently serious and appropriately reliable control mechanisms in the way of spending the funds provided for the protective facility. Let me stress immediately the requests that were applied in the construction of the defence facility in the previous government, however, suggested: firstly, the ruling of the Public Procurement Agency on the legality of the procedure chosen; secondly, included committees; thirdly, they included notices of the conditions under which contracts were concluded; and fourthly, they included entry into the Public Procurement Register, i.e. all the circumstances of ongoing and subsequent controls by all authorities which are interested and have the responsibility to control those processes accordingly. In this case, the question arises: what are the mechanisms, besides the usual control system of the state, which would control the procedures, legality and the way in which the funds are spent? Is this a minor matter? In my opinion, not particularly in the parameters of this transaction or transactions which are expected to be concluded or assigned to build the continuation of the protective facility. Take a look at this. In terms of the parameters notified by the Prime Minister in the Chamber, it was 90 million. lv. for 82 kilometers of protective equipment, that is, a little more than 10 million. lv. every 10 kilometers, at a price that was reached at the previous facility, at 2.5 million every 10 kilometers, i.e. a difference of times. Naturally, I accept that all this is in a very harsh form, initially as an idea, as an intention that probably does not give the exact parameters of what will happen, but in itself this is already sufficient reason to draw your attention and ask for much more reliable control mechanisms and, of course, more transparency about the way companies will be selected, concluded contracts, terms, parameters and the way in which the funds will be spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Naydenov. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u24	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The ABB Parliamentary Group supports the changes and the bill because we have long believed that the problem of migration pressure is a systemic problem for Bulgaria. Not only has the UN long recalled that the migration pressure around the world is serious and systemic, but also because the famous 10 migration corridors can grow by another one that passes through Bulgaria. Therefore, the deterrent actions of those we are talking about on the construction of the partition facility must not be episodic. We do not believe that the diplomatic and political funds of our government have played a sufficiently preventive role to prevent Bulgaria from being established as a migration channel. It is with this decision that we make a message to the Middle East, the Middle East and Africa that Bulgaria is no longer a broken yard. In this sense, I believe that the regional governors of Burgas, Yambol and Haskovo should be actively involved to ensure the transparency of which Minister Angelov spoke. In addition, the Foreign Ministry, which I have been asking for a month and a half, has been neglecting the problem. I will therefore support and support this change, but I believe that the systemic problem will not be solved only with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u25	Thank you, General. Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. The People's Representative Rosen Petrov has the floor for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The BDZ Parliamentary Group will also support this project, as we believe that at the moment any delay is lethal to our country. If we keep beating the ball here, March, April is coming soon, and there is no telling at the border how many refugees or more illegal immigrants will appear. So in this case, I think the national interest is above all political bias. Thank you. [[Private applause from BDZ and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u27	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the first vote the bill supplementing the Public Procurement Act with importers Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 15 January 2015. Dear Members of Parliament, please vote. Vote 146 MPs: 134 against 7, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. For the procedure Mr. Daniel Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u28	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! As no statements and declarations were made in the debate on the submitted bill that proposals for amendments and additions to the bill will be imported, but also in view of its gluttony, on the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal that the Draft for Supplement to the Public Procurement Act, No 554-01-5, be subject to a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u29	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. A reverse opinion? I won't. Please vote on the proposal made by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under art. 77, para. 1 of our Rules. Vote 149 MPs: 138, against 2, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB, RB, BDZ and PF.]] Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the Supplement to the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u31	Please vote on the name of the law. Vote 146 MPs: for 145, against none, abstention 1. The name of the law is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u32	It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 1 is created t. 18: 18. contracts for services, supplies or works concluded by a contracting entity under art. 7, p. 1 and 5 related to the construction of engineering facilities of obstruction type in order to protect the state border.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u33	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the so presented paragraph only of the bill. Vote 151 MPs: for 145, against 5, abstention 1. A single paragraph, according to the report read by the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs, has been adopted. The Public Procurement Act, No 554-01-5, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 15 January 2015 was also adopted in a second vote. [[Applause from GERB.]] We continue with the second item on the agenda: AQUALISED STRATEGY TO CONTINUE THE REFORM IN THE COURT SYSTEM. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 18 December 2014 Danail Kirilov, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, has the floor for the report. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members, ♪ I can't believe on an updated strategy for continuing judicial reform, No 402-00-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 December 2014. At its meetings held on 13 January 2015 and 15 January 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed an updated strategy for continuing judicial reform. The meetings were attended by: Mrs. Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Minister of Justice, Mrs. Nadezhda Yordanova, Head of Staff of the Minister of Justice, and Mr. Atanas Slavov, Advisor of the Minister of Justice, Mr. Petko Petkov, Deputy Minister of Justice, Mrs. Sotir Tsatsarov, Chief Prosecutor, and Mrs. Maria Shishkova, Deputy Prosecutor General at the Supreme Court of Cassation; from the Supreme Judicial Council (VSU): Mrs. Yuliana Koleva, Member of the SJC, Chairman of the Commission on Legal Affairs, Ms. Carolina Nedelcheva and Ms. Nezabravka Stoeva, members of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Supreme Judicial Council: Mrs. Dimana Josephova, Member of the Supreme Court of Cassation: Mrs. Raykov and Ms. Neza Raj. Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court: Mr. Boyan Magdalinchev. Representatives of the professional community and NGOs attended the meeting on 15 January 2015. From the Union of Judges in Bulgaria: Mr. Borislav Bezelkov, Chairman of the Management Board; from the Bulgarian Jury Association: Mrs. Bogdana Zhelyavska, President, Mrs. Haiguchi Bodikian, and Mr. Venelin Ivanov; from the Association of Prosecutors in Bulgaria: Mr. Evgeni Ivanov, President; from the Chamber of Investigators in Bulgaria: Mr. Petko Petkov, Chairman, and Mr. Vladimir Petrov Vice-President; from the Foundation of the Bulgarian Lawyers for Human Rights The strategy was presented by Mr. Hristo Ivanov. The strategic objectives set out in the next seven years provide for the introduction of a number of amendments to the judiciary to ensure its independence, to ensure good governance and high efficiency of its bodies, to develop the potential of human resources, to implement a modern penal policy so as to ensure a full right to a fair trial and effective protection of human rights. In particular, a restructuring of the Supreme Judicial Council is envisaged by proposing the division of the Supreme Judicial Council into two colleges of judges and prosecutors, direct selection of members of the professional quota of the SJC, extension of the powers of the general meetings of judges in the court administration process, reform of legal education, changes in the mechanism of competitions, attestations and disciplinary proceedings against magistrates, modern and effective criminal policy, introduction of a direct constitutional complaint and others. The representatives of the judicial authorities expressed their principled support for the Strategy and pointed out their main objections to it. Mr. Chetin Kazak, Mrs. Maya Manolova, Mr. Dimitar Lazarov, Mr. Daniel Kirilov, Mr. Petar Slavov, Mr. Kiril Kalfin, Mr. Christian Mitev, Mr. Yavor Haytov, Mr. Svetoslav Belemezov. In the course of the discussion, Mr Kazak pointed out some shortcomings of the Strategy as the proposal for a erratic Supreme Judicial Council with Standing Committees, its division into two colleges and the ambiguity as to which college members selected from the parliamentary quota should be included as if a new Penal Code would be adopted. He stressed that the Strategy should be subject to a broader discussion. Mrs. Maya Manolova reminded that this Strategy is a product of the work of five governments and embodies continuity and upgrade. By expressing her personal support for the document, she pointed out that his detailed discussion is necessary, as there are a number of controversial topics, vague wordings and unacceptable proposals. Mrs. Manolova stressed that not all magistrates have met and expressed their opinion on the Strategy and that the opinions already received have not been reflected in it. In response, Mr. Slavov pointed out that the accusations for insufficient debate are not justified and that judicial reform should start in reality, which requires a constitutional and legislative package of measures. Mr. Kalfin stressed that the Strategy is a framework that should be filled with content. Mr. Mitev expressed his opinion that after the National Assembly has undertaken to discuss and adopt the Strategy, it will have to be followed and that the proposed measures need to be addressed responsibly and seriously. Mr. Haytov pointed out that the Strategy was tabled at the wrong time, as there is no time for its implementation, given the expected report by the European Commission. He stressed that it is impossible for the recommendations of the report to overlap and new amendments to the Strategy will be required. Mr. Belemezov pointed out shortcomings of the Strategy by stressing that for none of the activities in the Strategy there is a deadline, responsible institutions, indicators whether it is implemented or not, which makes the Strategy wishful thinking. After the discussion and discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes for the Council, 1 vote against the Council and 5 votes abstentioned, proposes to the National Assembly the following: Project! DECISION approving an updated strategy for continuing judicial reform The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Approves the updated strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary adopted by Decision No 825 of the Council of Ministers of 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u35	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u36	Madam President, honourable Members! Given the importance of the issue that we are looking at for the strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary, I suggest that we include the cameras of the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio so that people can hear what you think here and see that we are taking this issue seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u37	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposed direct broadcast by the Bulgarian National Radio and the Bulgarian National Television of the debates and the vote on this item on the agenda. Vote 91 MPs: 85 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please turn on the National Television cameras and the National Radio microphones. On behalf of the Council of Ministers, there is a Minister Ivanov to present the updated strategy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u38	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Thank you for the opportunity to briefly present the Strategy that the Council of Ministers has brought to your attention. The debate about this document may leave the wrong impression that this is a Strategy for the Supreme Judicial Council. That's not true. Our attempt was to present a comprehensive document to address, of course, in a framework format at a general political level with all the problems of the judiciary. Of course, first of all, starting with the problems of the body, which must ensure its good governance, but also with topics such as legal education, which have, by the way, not been in the focus of efforts for judicial reform, burden and distribution of human resources to the judiciary, competitions, attestations, disciplinary proceedings, increasing guarantees for respect for human rights. So we really tried to open a very wide fan and create a basis for further work. The document has a seven-year horizon for a reason. This does not mean that we will postpone or plan to postpone the most important reforms in seven years, but we do realize that some of the processes of change and recovery in the judiciary that need to happen will be a gradual process. A gradual process will, of course, also be the establishment of the decisions to be taken in relation to them. For example, all the measures that we have foreseen to take with regard to criminal proceedings should be preceded by a new concept of criminal policy that Parliament should work out so that there is a clear consensus and a clear political mandate where these institutions should develop and their relations should, in the same way, be what should happen with criminal law and the administrative penal framework in this regard. It is very important for me to stress one thing.. this Strategy is an update of the 2010 Strategy, and this update has indeed worked five governments. I have personally had the honor and pleasure of working with the five governments in this regard. The strategy should in no way remain a strategy of any particular majority or, God forbid, a particular minister of justice. My desire and our desire of the Council of Ministers is the Strategy to serve as a basis, as a starting point, not as a final but as a starting point of forming a broad political and professional consensus on the necessary measures. That is why we are bringing it to Parliament. I would like to remind you that the 2010 Strategy remained as a single document adopted only by the Council of Ministers. It would probably have been much easier for us for the Council of Ministers to adopt this Strategy, to take it into account in Brussels, then to come up with the negative report, and we say: "Here we have done our job, which we could have done in these months. The previous ones are responsible for the negative report that will come. In the spirit of Bulgarian political tastes and morals this would be the easiest approach. On the contrary, despite the limited time we have until the 28th, when the European Commission report is expected, we have nevertheless decided to submit it so that we can get the support of a wide range of political forces and show a political intention to seriously reform judicial reform because we think this is the nationally responsible course of action. Our goal is not to tie the hands of Parliament and impose any decisions in advance. Of course, it is obvious that beyond the specific general objectives, it is necessary to reform all those areas that I have listed, there may be different solutions. Every decision we agree on will have its reflexes on other solutions that we will discuss. It is obvious that the final decision on the legislative framework will be taken in Parliament. This Strategy is only one request for intent, it is some basis for debate, but it cannot in any way be seen as the end point of this debate. Our desire is indeed to show now, before this report, the intention of all political forces, of all parts of the political sector for a serious debate in judicial reform and for reaching a final consensus in this regard. In this respect, I would very much like to thank, of course, the parties whose representatives supported this document of discussion in the committees, but I would especially like to thank the parties who disagreed with one point or another. At this stage, their disagreement and the points that bothered them proved not enough to motivate them to vote for abstention, but they voted abstention. There wasn't a single voice against him. I am grateful for this because for me it shows a serious request to continue the debate. Today, I would like to ask you to consider whether or not you should support this document as a request for further debate. I understand that at one point or another there will be different opinions? There is no way, that is our profession, especially those of us who are lawyers, but the debate continues. I would like to say to you that as far as the model of the Supreme Judicial Council is concerned, where there are the most heated disputes, these concrete measures that we have bet here are the beginning of some conversation, but the conversation will continue after today. We are working on organizing a Round Table by the Union of Lawyers, where I hope there will be a broad parliamentary representation on the subject of the Supreme Judicial Council. Let us do more about this Strategy is written during the caretaker government without any clarity how serious the will to change parliament will be, to show readiness to discuss and possible constitutional amendments to the model of the Supreme Judicial Council, because it is clear that this body shows certain dysfunctions over the years. It is clear that it does not ensure the good administration of the judiciary, which is necessary. If it comes to being ready for any constitutional changes, it is obvious that these things that have been proposed here will look in a completely different way and will have a completely different kind. My request is: let us consider this document as a starting point, as a basis for continuing discussion. What we intend to do by the ministry is, within a short period of time, to propose specific legislative texts so that the debate can become much easier, to know what we are talking about, and then we will organise meetings on the six appeals regions with all the magistrates who wish to participate in this discussion. I invite the Members of the National Assembly: form a committee to deal with these issues so that this debate will run in the territory of the National Assembly. We only want the National Assembly and the lawyers working here to engage more with this debate, and this is the beginning of this process and not the end. My request is so that we can send a strong signal to Brussels that regardless of the divisions that there may be, as far as judicial reform is concerned, it is a national priority, so that we can meet this reflective and negative report not again, pointing fingers at each other who is guilty of this, but that it boils us down in a moment of talking about what we should do to get out of this situation. Of course, it is clear that against judicial reform, there is no innocent of the grave situation in this sector. Here I do not exclude the professionals who work in it, neither the non-governmental sector nor the political forces. It's not who's to blame, it's really what we can do from now on. In order to be able to show a desire to focus on these perspectives, let this document be supported as an initial discussion. On the controversial topics, the discussion will continue. I have an absolute commitment in this regard to send out a strong political signal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u39	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We have so far heard the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs, which is leading. The strategy has been allocated to two other committees that discussed it at their meetings and prepared a report and a corresponding opinion. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds has delivered such an opinion. Who on this committee is going to brief us on the opinion? Mrs. Sylvia Hubenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u40	"COMMODITY" the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds on an updated strategy for continuing judicial reform, No 402-00-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 December 2014. At a meeting held on 15 January 2015, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined an updated strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary submitted by the Council of Ministers. Mr. Hristo Ivanov, Minister of Justice, and Mrs. Maria Karabelyova, Head of Cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs, took part in the Commission meeting. I. The proposed document aims to update the strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers in 2010. A strategy for continuing judicial reform in the conditions of membership of the European Union. Many factors lead to the need for an update: the beginning of the new programming period (most of the measures in the 2010 Strategy have a horizon until 2014.), recommendations from the European Commission under the Cooperation and Evaluation Mechanism, decisions of the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR), as well as Resolution 1915/2013 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which continued the post-monitoring dialogue with Bulgaria. The updated Strategy has a horizon of 7 years for implementation of reforms, thus synchronising with the new programming period for the absorption of the Structural Funds of the European Union. II. The aim of the Strategy is to formulate a vision for reform based on a systematic summary of the applicable international standards and recommendations to Bulgaria arising from the documents of the Council of Europe and the European Union, the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, the opinions of the Venice Commission and the reports of the European Commission on the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism, as well as the Strategy for the Implementation of Electronic Governance and Electronic Justice in the Sector. And others. The measures proposed in the Strategy have been developed into a detailed roadmap for its implementation, with specific actions, funding, expected results, performance indicators and responsible institutions being provided for each measure. Among the main objectives set are guaranteeing the independence of the Court of Justice, preventing corruption, establishing good, effective and transparent governance. III. A serious amount of research and analysis is envisaged for the implementation of the Strategy. The objective of the Strategy Action Plan is to do so with the support of the funds under the Operational Programme.). It is envisaged that EU funds will be used both for research to help implement the Strategy and for the organizational and resourceful implementation of technological leaps in the administration of the judiciary. The authors of the Strategy point out that technological refurbishment and the introduction of new computer and information technologies are the basis for the modernisation of the judiciary. IV. The general nature of the objectives set out in the Strategy implies the possibility of further specifying the measures by which they are to be achieved. Within the prescribed horizon, it is appropriate to establish specific deadlines, performance indicators, responsible institutions and necessary resources for each purpose and activity. Without a doubt, their successful implementation is linked to a thorough discussion in the professional community, as well as to the achievement of a public consensus between the representatives of the three authorities. In view of the above and as a result of the vote being taken, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 9 votes for the Council of Ministers and 7 votes abstentions of the National Assembly to approve the updated strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary, No 402 -23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 December 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Hubenova. We will now also hear the report of the Commission on the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u42	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! At its meeting held on 15 January 2015, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics Commission discussed an updated strategy for continuing judicial reform, No 402-00-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 December 2014. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Justice: Mrs. Hristo Ivanov, Minister of Justice from the Supreme Judicial Council: Mrs. Sonia Naydenova, Chairman, Ms. Nezabravka Stoeva, Ms. Milka Itova and Mr. Yasen Todorov from the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council: Mrs. Anna Karaivanova, Chief Inspector. The strategy was presented by Mr. Hristo Ivanov. The strategic objectives set, which concern the Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics, are limiting the possibilities for undue political influence on the judiciary. One of the objectives is the way to elect the Supreme Judicial Council and its structuring to ensure that a majority of judges directly elected by their fellow Members are at the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council. The aim is to make decisions relating to their careers in the body which has a majority of judges. Mr. Ivanov also focused on specific measures related to the prevention of conflict of interest and corruption. The strategy lays down the creation of a special administrative unit at the Supreme Judicial Council, which is legally obliged to deal with the verification of factors that could raise doubts about the corruption of a certain magistrate. It has been said that declarations of conflict of interest are currently being submitted by all senior officials and magistrates, but there is no authority to make a thorough examination of whether the declarations correctly reflect the declared circumstances and whether the declared properties correspond to the ability of the designated person to acquire them or have indications of corrupt behaviour. It is clear from good practices in countries with a stronger institutional order that it is precisely such checks of public officials, in particular judges, prosecutors and investigators, that are a serious guarantee for the prevention of corruption. It is proposed that this unit be precisely to the Supreme Judicial Council so that there is no interference in its work outside the judiciary. The strategy provides for a specific extension of the circumstances which must be declared. It is envisaged to be subject to a declaration by judges and their affiliation to associations and informal groups which do not declare their membership. In this sense, to create a single electronic register of the referrals to enable the parties to benefit from the information on these associations. The strategy aims to attempt to limit the possibilities for political influence on the judiciary, the way the Supreme Judicial Council is elected and its structuring. The representatives of the judicial authorities expressed their principled support for the Strategy and pointed out their main objections to it. The strategy in this form does not provide an answer to basic questions, main problems, ways to solve, steps and time frames. There are constitutional restrictions at the moment and if steps are taken in this direction, changes to the Constitution will really be needed. The discussion was attended by the MPs Mr. Metodi Andreev, Mr. Georgi Kovachev, Mr. Valentin Kasabov, Mr. Radan Kanev, Mr. Kiril Dobrev, Mr. Yanko Yankov, Mr. Ivan Ivanov and Mr. Mustafa Karadayi. Mr. Metodi Andreev noted that there is an exceptional deficit of justice and justice and from now on, whatever is done will be better than what is currently. Mr. Georgi Kovachev voiced concern that when submitting the Strategy to plenary, the opposition will vote against the House and the people will remain under the impression that there is no will to reform the judiciary. He said there was no consensus between the Supreme Judicial Council, the Prosecutor's Office and the judges on the Judicial Reform Strategy. Mr. Valentin Kasabov pointed out how many cases Bulgaria lost in the Strasbourg Court and if there were magistrates punished for it. According to him, some of these cases are lost due to lack of knowledge, experience and competence, and another part precisely because of corruption practice. He believes that additional time is needed to draw up a truly normal, fair strategy such as to cover all these failures or breakdowns in the system that have become a practice and not to be a sense of unpunished. Mr. Radan Kanev expressed his opinion that the main function of the Commission is to assess the anti-corruption potential of the Strategy and critically high levels of corruption in the judiciary. He rejected the allegations that the Strategy was a surprise to the judiciary because for years these are the key recommendations of the European Commission and the people who are dealing with judicial reform in Bulgaria. These decisions are the basis of the election programs of the Reformation bloc and GERB in this area. Mr. Ianko Iankov said that the DPS parliamentary group will refrain from supporting the Strategy, but at the same time will actively participate in the debates. Mr. Kiril Dobrev believes that the Strategy is not open to the people of the judiciary and there should be clear deadlines, responsible and more clarity. Mr. Ivan Slavov supports the assessments made by his colleagues about the need for consensus regarding such an important document on which there is not only political agreement of the majority but also public agreement on the need for reform. According to Mr. Mustafa Karadaye, in the Strategy there are two main situations, this is the cancellation of the Supreme Judicial Council and the personnel changes in the judiciary. After the discussion and discussion, a vote was held. Results of the As a result of the discussion, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission proposes to the National Assembly not to approve an updated strategy for continuing judicial reform adopted by Decision No 825 of the Council of Ministers of 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u43	Thank you. Debates are open. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to participate in them to apply for this. Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u44	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! It is undoubtedly necessary to reform the judiciary, not so much and not just because we expect a very critical report on the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism by the European Commission, but especially because Bulgarian citizens have been insisting on it for many years. Our proposed Strategy, evident from the way it has been done, and evidently from what we have heard in the Committee on Legal Affairs in its discussion, is the result of the long-standing work of various teams of individual ministers of justice over the years. It cannot fail to identify certain positive elements and merits that we support. First of all, we support the division of the Supreme Judicial Council into judges and prosecutors' colleges. Here the question remains open to us whether we will do this only with amendments to the Law on the Judiciary, or whether we will move towards a change in the Constitution. It is our opinion that it is better, in view of legal certainty and stability, to move towards constitutional changes that we will support in their submission. Undoubtedly the dignity of the Strategy is the opening of the issue of citizens' direct constitutional complaint at last. As far as I know, Bulgaria is the only member of the European Union in which there is a constitutional jurisdiction where citizens have no right to address the Constitutional Court directly. The right to a direct constitutional complaint is also written in the election programme of the Patriotic Front, so we cannot fail to support this proposal, set out in the Strategy for Reform of the Judicial System. We also welcome the opening of the discussion on judicial fees. We believe that it is a discussion issue on the so-called fee in civil courts, as it prevents a large part of citizens and businesses from defending their property and non-material rights. Given that the charge is charged only for the administration of one case, it should, in our view, be simple and not proportionate. We hope that, when drawing up the roadmap, which will be part of this Strategy and subsequently with the relevant legislative amendments that will be proposed to the National Assembly by the Ministry of Justice, a thorough debate will be held on this. With these positive points that I have highlighted so far, of course, the situation of the Strategy, which we consider to be good, does not run out. I will immediately give an example of the emphasis placed on legal education. That's where we have to go so we can then have well-prepared, qualified and responsible magistrates. With the good times, however, we have certain reservations on some of the points, and basic situations such as the introduction of an erratic Supreme Judicial Council. Our opinion is that so proposed in the Strategy, this is not a good option for work. We believe that since it was originally a session-acting body, then it came to the decision to be permanent and we can compare the models, our opinion is firmly that the Supreme Judicial Council must remain a permanent-acting body. Why? In our current proposed change, there are intended to be ongoing committees to be composed of posted magistrates. However, they are not members of the Supreme Judicial Council, nor have they been elected from the professional quotas of judges and prosecutors, respectively, from the parliamentary quota. On the other hand, the Standing Committees will prepare the documents on which the plenary panel of the Supreme Judicial Council will work when it gathers in separate sessions, which we find disturbing. Next, we consider it a discussion issue regarding the imposition of disciplinary penalties by the Supreme Court of Cassation. We believe that it is more right for these proceedings to take place before the Supreme Administrative Court. In this regard, we also have certain reservations at this point in the Strategy. We believe that in the section concerning criminal policy, the commitment to the adoption of a new Penal Code should be made clearer. We believe that it is better to have a whole new law developed because, as I recall, the last report on the cooperation and evaluation mechanism of the European Commission was issued such a recommendation for the drafting of a whole new law, not for work per piece. We think it would be good to set up appropriate amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure to remove formalism, which hinders rapid and efficient pre-trial proceedings. One of the criticisms of both the citizens and the European Commission is the slow investigation and then the judicial proceedings in criminal cases. We believe that when implementing the legislative changes in the implementation of this Strategy, as well as in the development of the roadmap, it is good to have a real discussion in the professional community, consultations to reach an agreement or at least close positions of the parliamentary political forces represented, as well as a public consensus between the representatives of the three authorities on the main objectives and activities of these projects. We hope that the working groups for the implementation of this Strategy, as well as the round tables envisaged in the roadmap, will include representatives of the legislative, executive and judicial authorities, professional communities, so that their opinion can be heard. With these reservations, which we have expressed to some of the positions in the Strategy, and preserving the right for further discussion both on the road map and on individual legislative initiatives to implement this Strategy to defend the positions I have expressed at the moment and which we have, we say that as a nationally responsible political force, we will support it because there is a need for reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u45	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I won't. Until now, Mr. Kenov, Mr. Delchev, Prof. Borisov, Mr. Kirilov. Now Mr. Slavov is giving a sign. The word is Mr. Kenov from the BDC.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u46	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center is consistently behind its election commitments and supports the need for real reforms in the judiciary. Any effective and meaningful proposal for a change in the system will be supported and the Bulgarian Democratic Center will actively participate with proposals for legislative changes. What, though, are we witnessing today? On a proposal for a decision that has no legal value and only states political intentions. Political intentions are expressed by all parties in their election promises. Parliament is a place for specific decisions and laws. At the moment, however, at the initiative of the Reformation Bloc and Minister Ivanov, we are dealing with a text of a solution that only wastes the time of the MPs in idle talk. It is clear that reform is necessary. It is necessary to form a coalition of the willing, the entry into which will be a sign of civilisational choice, because it is evident that there is a public consensus that citizens want change. This public consensus must also be converted into a commitment to the rule of law to be above the sovereignty of the clerk and the system. We are for amendments to Chapter Six of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Law on the Judiciary. I believe that there are thousands of judges and prosecutors in the judiciary who will be the best ally in conducting the reform if they see concrete proposals for effective legislative changes. We fear that your goal, Minister and Reformers gentlemen, is to replace some people with your people. And the big problem of the judiciary is how to ensure that the political pressure on it is stopped. You will tell us that the adoption of this Strategy is extremely important for the foreign policy image of our country, for the coming out of the role of a doomed member of the European Union and you will lie to us, just as you are trying to lie to our partners in the Union because imitating reforms is what you certainly do. We doubt the reasons for writing such formal documents, which is why the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center stated in principle its desire for reforms, but leaves each member of the group to vote on conscience today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u47	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. - What's the line? I won't. The word is Mr. Delchev from the Reformation Block.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u48	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The reformist bloc will support the Judicial Reform Strategy, as it reflects, in a very large part, the reformist bloc's programme in the area of justice and internal order. But today we are debating this reform, and I ask you to note that this is a strategy for judicial reform. It's a vision, it's a long-term document. This shows the way Bulgaria will move in the field of justice and internal order. And that is why all those who are non-uristic should probably ask themselves whether Bulgaria needs this direction, whether there is a need for judicial reform. Colleagues, you are probably all traveling through your districts, I am traveling along my area in Sofia, and I know that from Samokov to the Serbian border and from Botevgrad to Koprivshtitsa every time the issue of judicial reform is raised, all people believe that it should be done and radical. It must change the way both the Supreme Judicial Council and the judiciary and the prosecution function. And I hope that this judicial reform strategy, which we are currently discussing, is the first step, is the initial impetus given by the National Assembly, on which we are going, so that this judicial reform can happen. There was criticism during the discussion of the strategy by different parliamentary groups. One of the criticisms was that judicial reform is too general and gives too general concepts. But that's not true. There are also specific measures in it. Another criticism was that it was too specific. However, let these contradictions remain further. The Strategy for Judicial Reform gives a really up-to-date picture of what the judiciary is currently representing in Bulgaria. It gives a very good slot analysis, which I hope everyone will read because it is important not only for lawyers, but also for non-uristics to see what needs to be changed in our system. Finally, I would like to call on all my fellow Members to support the Judicial Reform Strategy. Let us make the way forward to see both our European partners and Western partners and Eastern partners and all the partners who criticize our judiciary that Bulgaria is willing to go in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u49	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. - What's the line? I won't. To make a statement, the word is "Professor." Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u50	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! The ABB Parliamentary Group will support the proposed Strategy for Reform of the Judicial System. What are our reasons for supporting the strategy? First of all, this is the fact that in society there is an acute need and there is a public consensus that the reform of the judiciary is not only necessary, but also that its implementation is extremely important for the future development of all public systems in the country and for the creation of a sense of justice, for which this judicial system has been called upon first and foremost to work. The reform strategy proposed to the National Assembly today differs from those developed with a certain degree of integrity and specificity. It is characteristic of the strategy that it not only contains the objectives, but also specific ways for their implementation. The court and prosecution, as institutions, need independence not only from outsiders but also from each other. So it will be possible to select the best professionals who will enjoy the greatest public trust in these bodies. This is extremely important, as the judicial system is currently largely deprived of public trust, and this also leads to public legal nihilism. There are serious proposals in the strategy related to improving personnel policy, disciplinary practice, reducing workload, reforming the budgetary process and planning, reorganising the judicial map, as well as a package of measures aimed at preventing and combating corruption among magistrates. The most important thing, however, is that the adoption of the Strategy opens the doors to the next step, and this is the development and adoption of specific legislative solutions for change, which in their midst will have to ensure the much-needed reform of the judiciary. All this gives us reason to support the adoption of the proposed judicial reform strategy by the government. At the same time, we realise that whatever legislative changes are adopted within the framework of the current Constitution, they will not be able to implement the reform in its full, complete, complete and efficient form. The key issues of judicial reform in order for it to take place in this comprehensive and complete form require the necessary amendments to the Constitution, and a constitutional majority is needed for this purpose. We hope that in the course of implementing the legislative changes of the reform, such a majority will be formed naturally on the basis of the beliefs and common sense for our mission as people's elects, that in Bulgaria it is high time to build a stable and efficient judicial system that creates in society as a whole and in every citizen of this society a sense of justice. We are also aware that in the Strategy, one part of the measures imposed have a certain discussion nature. We are aware that another part has option and alternative solutions. The ABB Parliamentary Group, in support of the proposed Strategy today, will, in the course of its legislative implementation, lay out and defend its concrete views on these measures, but not in the form of self-defense, but as a basis for discussion and conviction to seek and find the most reasonable and beneficial solution for the judiciary and society. I wish success in implementing the reform of the judiciary, which I think we are starting today. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u51	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. - What's the line? I don't see anyone who wants to. The word is Mr. Daniel Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u52	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! In the report, which was presented by the two meetings of the Legal Committee, we limited ourselves to setting out all the opinions that were presented in the debate. The debate was thorough. What was very impressive was that there was an opportunity for all non-governmental organisations that had a relationship and a professional connection with the topics and problems in the Strategy for Reform and Development of the Judicial System, expressed opinions and they were not formal at all. They also testified to the need for the problems in the judiciary. We certainly and firmly support the strategic document adopted and proposed by the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria. I would also like to point out here that we fully support the government's request that this strategic document be presented to the attention of the legislative body of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is important in order to achieve political consensus, it is important in order to implement the strategic objectives and the measures that are set out in the Strategy. It's important because we're going to apply it. I would like to take occasion from the many speakers before me, who firmly state their belief that the reform of the judiciary cannot take place without constitutional change. This is my and our deep conviction. Alas, the Constitution has defined, in particular, basic parameters in the relationship of the judiciary. Unfortunately, the regulations it has established prove that they do not work successfully, that they do not solve the problems in the system, that they create prerequisites for the emergence of negative practices in the judiciary. It is undisputed that society, citizens, we do not trust in the judiciary, which is a pity, because magistrates have the special privilege of implementing the law, of applying it as strictly and as fair as possible. If we have doubts about this value, we cannot move forward in democratic development, we cannot develop any sector in our public relations. Both in the presentation and in the discussion, there are undoubtedly many advantages of the proposed strategic document. There is no doubt the need to upgrade and update what has been achieved so far. There are achievements, but they are not convincing enough, they are not strong enough, and in this situation we should in no way lose the path that leads to changes. I personally appeal to all my fellow Members for the consolidation of the political will towards urgent, immediate changes to constitutional norms which regulate and regulate the fundamental powers of the judicial authorities. There is no doubt that the most valuable thing in the judiciary is the human resource at the moment. The system has potential for footage. It is right to say that not all magistrates in court and other bodies are rotten apples. It's bad when rotten apples create the face of our justice system. The strategy correctly takes into account this resource and its power. I would say that the role of politics, of politicians, is to do everything possible to help healthy, successful, conscientious magistrates who, on the inside, will do everything possible to reform the judiciary, both with our professional actions and with our participation in the bodies of judicial self-government and with their daily work. It is certainly that we must give them clear regulations for this, we must give them such procedures in which career development is guaranteed under clear conditions and rules. You can't have magistrates contesting the contests. There can be no doubt that when selecting and raising individual magistrates, obedience or dependence is sought. The rules must be clear, the rules must be undisputed. Many problems related to disciplinary proceedings and disciplinary liability have been said, including indirectly, the question of functional immunity in the judiciary. Here I will allow myself a personal opinion which I would not like to engage in political power. It is in the following sense, and there is no missing investigative body in the judiciary. Much of the violations are not just disciplinary. Much of the violations are probably also violations that are committed by a crime. We must have a clear responsibility. Yes, the functional immunity regime has been edited twice constitutionally. If there is an opportunity for this debate to be opened, I believe that this would strengthen the principles and work in the judiciary. Undoubtedly achievement is the application that a direct constitutional complaint will also be sought. I appeal to all Members, to all Members of the National Assembly, to give maximum support to this principled, conceptual strategic document and consciously, in good faith, to seek to implement it to the maximum extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u53	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I won't. Members of Parliament shall be appointed on behalf of parliamentary groups whose representative has already expressed his position. From the groups of BSP left Bulgaria, Ataka, and DPS until now there is no request for speeches. Are there any co-workers willing to participate in the debate? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u54	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Judicial reform in Bulgaria is obviously necessary. It is a process aimed at bringing the judiciary into line with European recommendations. The reform should ultimately lead to the fact that the judiciary will benefit society and contribute to its development, rather than self-sufficient, self-replicating system, marginal system. The objectives described in this so-called "Actualisation of the Strategy of Judicial Reform" are independent judiciary, good governance, efficiency of judicial authorities, motivation, competence of human resources in the system, of course, a fair process for every citizen and effective protection of human rights. These objectives are worthy, meeting the substance of the rule of law, objectives which should be supported. In the present case, however, the way these objectives are being implemented is too vague, unprotected in the Strategy. Since it is a really important, important document for our society and our understanding of the rule of law, I cannot share the maxim that the end justifies the means. I say that in this form the Strategy is not prepared for discussion in plenary, but even less for the approval of the National Assembly. And what is most important is that there are no action manuals for achieving the above objectives. There is no broad professional discussion of this Strategy. Many recommendations lack not only legal and political, but any logic at all. For example, in specific objective 2, t. The introduction as part of the initial competitions for the appointment of judges and prosecutors and attestations for the acquisition of inalienability of knowledge and knowledge, the acquisition of inalienability of knowledge, the acquisition of professional ethics and the assessment of the development of the person and so on. Personally, I can't explain how there can be an indisputability of knowledge, whether by professional ethics and an assessment of the development of the person. Such frappany conclusions lead me to believe that the members of the Council of Ministers have not read this Strategy in detail. The opposite would lead me to very sad and severe conclusions about the capacity of the executive. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 "Strategic and specific objectives', i.e. 1.1.5 a change of the status of the Presidents of the VCC, the Supreme Administrative Court and the Prosecutor General is required. However, what this change expresses remains an open question. What their status should be and what exactly is meant by the change of status is so leaky, and in this sense, a dangerous issue for democracy. It requires a change in the structure of the Supreme Judicial Council, the establishment of a prosecutor's and judge's college. Will this structural change solve the problems in the system or deepen them? He must have an opinion in both directions. But there is not, as I said in the beginning, a sufficiently thorough and yet broad public discussion on this issue. With this change, which problems will be solved and which problems will be catalyzed? There's no clear answer. In which quota will rehabilitated professors, lawyers and not just as decor, but as a clear factor? The establishment of a public mechanism for control of the parliamentary quota in the Supreme Judicial Council is requested. Does this mean that the parliamentary quota in the Supreme Judicial Council will have a more special status? Does this mean that it is approached by the parliamentary quota with the undeniable assumption that it is more incompetent and unreliable, which is why it alone will be subject to this type of control? How is this understanding relevant to the principles of the rule of law, the rule of law and certain constitutional protections of human rights, citizens and division and the mutual control of the three authorities? My fellow Members, in view of the above, by actually writing just a few examples proving the incompleteness of this Strategy, I believe that this document is not sufficiently complete and ready to be adopted by the National Assembly. Bulgaria is critically in need of judicial reform, a Strategy for this reform, but in this form to be adopted only because of its adoption, I think it would not be appropriate for the reform itself. And in the end, why was it adopted only by the Council of Ministers in 2010 and what now imposes its adoption by the National Assembly? What does a constitutional complaint have to do with the judiciary and reform? How will the Supreme Judicial Council work when it is not a permanent body and does this mean that the system will actually be managed by the permanent committees of the Supreme Judicial Council? All these questions should be answered clearly, unambiguously and categorically, in order to acquire this Strategy a completed kind of form of form to put it in the foundations of judicial reform, and the question should be answered before then: is this Parliament ready to carry out the necessary actions to amend the Constitution in order to start implementing this Strategy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u55	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? [[Noise and lines.]] I am waiting for the groups that have not stated a position, but if they do not want or wish to join later, there are recorded Members of the National Assembly for speech. Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u56	Thank you, Madam President. I suppose, colleagues, you remember before New Year's, when I appealed from this tribune, perhaps more than once, to consider a common programming document in which the three authorities would support the Judicial Reform Strategy, the need for judicial reform at all. There's something going on right now that I think is even better. Here my admiration for the efforts of the Minister and his entire team, this Strategy after a long discussion and after opinions, practically all interested groups and communities of people, can support it in plenary. This thing, on the one hand, expresses the will of the state for reforms in this sector, secondly, shows this determination to both Bulgarian citizens and to our Brussels partners, indeed, those reforms that we have been talking about for so long to happen. If you notice, the main debate is held around the Supreme Judicial Council and rather about how to reform it and not whether to reform it. And I think that this debate can be left for later, when we see the concrete proposals for changes, legislative and constitutional, and we really find the best way for this reform to happen there. As far as the constitutional and legislative changes required by the Strategy, fellow Members, let us think about it, because, for example, legislative changes we can talk about in the random distribution of cases. There is no constitutional change required, and it is clear to us all how important it is that this random distribution is happening and that there is no doubt about what is happening. With legislative changes, many of the proposals that the prosecution made earlier in the discussions and these changes can be implemented to increase its effectiveness in its work. Also with legislative changes, much can be helped by the even distribution of cases and the workload of magistrates so that the court can work better. Here my appeal, my remark is: let us really not allow ourselves the need for constitutional changes, perhaps with regard to the Supreme Judicial Council, to stop us and delay us with regard to other changes that can be purely legislatively resolved in the Judicial Law and to really start reform in this way. What I am about to conclude is the issue of human capital, one of the strategic objectives of the Strategy, which talks about human capital in the judiciary. Colleagues, this is something extremely important, extremely commendable, that this strategy speaks of human capital. These are those judges who have 40 or more cases a month and who do not go to rest on Saturdays and Sundays but bring their affairs home or go to work. These are those prosecutors and investigators who are being told by dishonest superiors: "You will not investigate this one or that one. These are all those people in this system without whom this reform is not possible to happen and whose support we have in the discussions I think we have received and who have shown that they want this reform. I will confidently support the Strategy, and I hope, of course, and I believe with united forces, that we will start implementing it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u57	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? I won't. On behalf of the Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. [[Replications by National Representative Chetin Kazak.]] You don't mind if a second person from GERB take an attitude before you, Mr. Kazak? Okay. Mr. Lazarov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u58	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! I will not repeat what my fellow Members have said when it comes to the Strategy for Judicial Reform in the Supreme Judicial Council, the occasional distribution of cases, career growth, disciplinary practice, yes, these are important topics, topics that have provoked and will cause debate, but in this Strategy there are some other postulates that we somehow do not pay attention to, because judicial reform is not just in the section concerning the Supreme Judicial Council. Judicial reform and the extent to which we are aware of the implementation of the legislative acts that we are adopting. It impresses me, and I say it with a good feeling that in this Strategy there is something that seems to have eluded us so far: an assessment of the effectiveness of the individual laws, the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Civil Procedure Code and other laws that we adopt. It is really good that we are already talking about a new policy in the area of criminal law. Last year and last year, we talked about a new Penal Code, but not even talking about any new policy. A penal code project from the Council of Ministers was submitted last year. After the debate was tabled, although the National Assembly was called upon. In this Penal Code, about 90-95% of the legal norms were the same as in the current, but we are not talking about a new criminal law policy, given both material and procedural. There are many questions that we need to answer: will this formalism continue in the process? Because we adopted a new Code of Criminal Procedure years ago, which is basically also repeating with small exceptions, new forms of rapidness have been created in the investigation and in the examination of the legal proceedings, but this debate is definitely standing before us: will there be a division of transgressions and crimes? See, there I see young people in this room, for minors, to conduct some cases for minor crimes pre-trial, unfortunately, and judicial, and to end them when they are a minor, with a public reprimand, the intended punishment for minors. Will there be a debate in the area of execution of punishment? There are so many modern forms, because the alimony of a imprisoned person is not small at all. Are we going to lead the debate in the direction of prevention, re-education, giving these people the opportunity to realize after they suffer imprisonment? Again, the alimony is not small. 800 and several leva is monthly for a permissive prison sentence. Are we going to have a debate? The Civil Procedure Code has also changed. We have not made an assessment, the changes that have been made regarding the admissibility of cases in the Supreme Court of Cassation, how appropriate are they, how much are they blocking the way of the investigation? How often does this sound, too, increase the workload? Yes, in judicial reform, colleagues have spoken, there are many things. And it's nice to start this analysis now, to start assessing the effectiveness of these laws, what we need. Because, excuse me, a new Penal Code, but a man and a new suit go to buy again and again, saying: summer, winter, wedding, funeral. Somehow, the word "new" does not regulate the criminal code, does not reorganize the relationship in a new way. Not to mention, and I don't want to get into legal matters as far as the Law on Legislative Acts is concerned, since we are not settling a matter in a new way, we need to write a new law. And it specifically says that it shouldn't be like this. In this part, I welcome the Strategy and I think this can begin. There is no need to change the laws, there is no need for a change in the Constitution to really begin. It'll take time. Not for a week, two, three, five. It may take months and years to understand in this part of the reform what we are going to do. We can adopt very good legislation in the area of the Supreme Judicial Council, career growth, disciplinary proceedings, but, honourable Members, if our laws are ineffective, I do not see what we would change so much in people's expectations. If the exceptional formalism continues, even for the smallest crimes, which in the investigation, pre-trial proceedings are conducted in the same way as for serious crimes, and end with a single sentence the administrative penalty. At the same time, these investigative bodies and the court can really deal freely with serious crimes and not talk about excessive workload of magistrates in some courts. In this part I welcome and think that this should begin immediately, because otherwise we will only make changes to the laws without assessing their effectiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u59	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs to take part in the debate? There are several who are in a waiting position, but there are no more recordings to speak at the moment. Mr. Kazak? [[Reply by National Representative Chetin Kazak.]] Mr. Notev? [[Reply from the National Representative Yavor Notev.]] Mr. Kazak is waiting, and Mr. Notev is waiting. If there aren't any, we'll close the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Notev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u60	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues, Mr Minister! By preparing for today's hearing, I remembered... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] For a hearing, yes. ... I recalled the place of the judiciary, the place of law in the life of each of the Bulgarian citizens and tried to illustrate the problems which it aimed to solve the proposed Strategy. I remembered the words of our teachers, our teachers, that law is an art of just and good. I remember what we all know that law is a super-building phenomenon that is alive, which is an instrument of power, extremely important, applicable and necessary for every single authority. I remembered that the law in our country's history has its place and its assessment. We all know, we've heard, "Silver sits, sues the Cadillac." This is the expectation of the Bulgarian from justice. In Bulgarian it is said: "Which is right, it is right!." We know what heights legal science has reached in the face of Corifes like Venelin Ganev, as professor. Dolapchiev, prof. Kojuharov, Prof. Prof. Andreev, Prof. Andreev. Tajer. I am careful not to mention any controversial authority, but it seems to me that those I have listed cannot be challenged. That's what we're working on, guys. This is what we lean on and what we step on to say what we do with the law today, with the legal system today, with the faith of Bulgarian citizens in what they expect from the Bulgarian court. And now, I remember one more thing. For 25 years, given the reforms in the social and economic sphere, we have been trying to find the right path. We are trying to find the right solution and we are always failing, and we are still failing, and I would say that we are about to fail again and not realize the expected result and the long-awaited achievement. In the last eight years, we've also acquired an institute of observers. That's insulting! We're being watched in this particular area, and we're getting a report after a report that brings us back to the corner of detention. In the current situation, we are thrilled to expect the new assessment, in the hope that we will change something so that we reach, to shorten the distance with neighbouring Romania. Notice, not with any country that should be able in any sphere and area to serve as a model and an example. Romania next door becomes a dream for us in this area. By the way, let me be more specific and say: is there a need for judicial reform? Thus asked the question there is a single, clear and clear answer "yes, there is. Is there a need? There is! Anyone would've confirmed it, anyone would've said it. Is this the strategy we would support? I'm referring to the strategy proposed by the government. The answer is equally clear: no, this is not the strategy, and I will say why. This strategy is not indisputable. It is partly true what was said by the speakers before me that it was the subject of discussion in the professional guilds. I have tried to attend some of these discussions, along with colleagues from Parliament and the Legal Commission. We have seen that this strategy is not undeniable, it does not unite, it divides. This strategy does not point to a clear, correct path to solving problems. It is just a picture of the problems that we see now, which in an insulting way are shown to us from the outside through qualifications and unacceptable interference in the work of the same system, in the absence of a reaction, of course, to the competent persons on our part. Here's what you can see from the Strategy, excuse me, without it raising meaningful and fundamental issues without provoking creative solutions, clearly, categorically solving important and urgent problems. According to the strategy, importers recognize something important that honors them. They say: we continue working on this Strategy, which has cared for governments before us. I remember in 2009, the beginning of the work, there was a meeting at the Ministry of Justice, then the minister was Margarita Popova, with members of the Venice Commission. Even then we raised the question that we are a society, a country that has a tradition in this area, which has self-esteem and authority in this area, that these names that I have numbered are graduates of the most leading European schools of its time and that they were equal even in the time between 1944 and 1989. I do not intentionally name this period in order not to provoke any assessment and coloring, but then with the Soviet professors the dispute was held equal, authority, argumentation. And now, in a situation of subordination and obedience, we must accept remarks and assessments that, excuse me, there is no way to accept and which will be re-created as problems in the strategy in question and we will thus have to recognise their existence. What does it mean to fight now for transparency, increased efficiency, anticorruption? Let's answer first... Are there these problems and who is their carrier? What are these general tales of rotten apples and other fruits?! What does that mean?! Which of the magistrates must bear such an insult and such a burden?! If anyone claims that, it means that crimes are being committed in the justice system. If there are crimes, there must be proof and punishment. There's no reason to accept such assessments as this and bring the wolf into the fold ourselves, and then wonder at negative assessments. That's not gonna happen! We're pointing to problems. These problems have specific names and carriers. In the programme of the Political Party "Attack" we have named these problems and we have pointed to the view of their overcoming. In this sense, on 19 December last year, Minister Ivanov and Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva submitted to the National Assembly through the explicit convening of the Presidential Council this strategy with a request for serious and responsible attitude in its movement to parliament and with a request for state relations. The intention that we had, from Ataka, was precisely to assess this request, this appeal, so that we could somehow help those who bear the burden of negotiating on behalf of our country. Alas, then the commitments made by the importers were not fulfilled. No one before the beginning of the January session of the Parliament sought a conversation with the Parliamentary Group of Ataka. We didn't see, we didn't hear, we didn't see the need to make even certain compromises with our views or bring something into this strategy. Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva passed as a comet during the meeting of the Legal Commission of Parliament. She didn't even stay to listen to the other participants there. All this was taken over by Minister Ivanov. Honor does Mrs. Tsacheva of Parliament that she tried to put things in their place, tried to arrange the hierarchy of the authorities in this country, as the Constitution says, tried to understand who dictated the agenda of the National Assembly. But that's not enough because Mrs. Kuneva is not here today. But not to deviate from these details, because they are details against the background of the strategy and the importance of the problems that it should develop and solve. We will not support this strategy, not because it is not necessary. We were prepared to speak on such a document, but this is not the format, this is not the content we find satisfactory and it is possible to bring the judiciary out of the problems it is in. I'm going back to splitting the guilds. Once again, I say that the debate, the discussion, was extremely insufficient, because the opposite would mean that we have united and supported by the majority of opinions here. This is not in the format of the Bulgarian National Assembly. This is not in the format of the Bulgarian legal guilds with representatives of different professions. Because of this deficit of quality, a deficit of specifics, a deficit of rational solutions, we will stand against the proposed strategy, despite the feeling and awareness of an urgent need for its discussion. Finally, in a somewhat optimistic format, I would say: we can make a strategy, but that is not it. The time we're trying to catch up with and what we've missed isn't irretrievably lost. We can make a strategy such as to make neighbouring countries and representatives of neighbouring systems defending their right and implementing their laws look into what we have written and planned. We can and we have to. That is our opinion on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u61	Thank you, Mr. Notev. Let the group know that your time is up. You can then ask for an extension of time. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Notev, I have always considered you a balanced person and I am surprised that you allow yourself to comment on the Deputy Prime Minister in his absence. [[Noise and laughter at Ataka.]] Mrs. Kuneva was in the office of the President of the National Assembly before Christmas. You were also there with the Minister of Justice Mr. Hristo Ivanov. We have had a very serious and thorough conversation regarding judicial reform. I assume you know that there is a meeting of the Council of Ministers today that will discuss the government's management programme. I think it is quite normal and logical for the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers to be in this meeting. My request is that we still take account of these circumstances and not look for problems where they are not. It is obvious that judicial reform is necessary, that it is necessary here in this Chamber to demonstrate character and that we all want to make sure that the next 10-20 years are not again the years of timelessness. So have the power to say that you are against judicial reform, that you are for preserving the status quo. Please take a look at the latest polls to see what trust is in the judiciary. Look at what the prosecutors think. They themselves think that the reform is necessary, that this should be a serious conceptual reform, not just to cover the problems and sweep things under the carpet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u63	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. Is there a second line to Mr. Notev's statement? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u64	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mr. Notev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I respectfully and respectfully listened to the first part of the exhibition of the MP Yavor Notev. I really felt pride and responsibility, colleague Notev. I think this should be the dominant approach when we work with this complex and heavy matter. However, I cannot agree with the second part of your exhibition, because you know the judiciary very well. Yeah, I'm not a supporter of epithets, qualifications, of any typeization, especially in negative order. However, you cannot deny the acute need to stop a number of corrupt practices. We can't forbid ourselves to talk about this. The justice system is like a bomb by doing nothing, in two or three months this bomb will explode. Any case there can play the part of an explosive. Then it'll be too late! Then there is no way to show that we will be able to make a strategy, because time has passed. I appeal exactly to the fact that we don't miss the chance now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u65	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Another last line? Here you go, Mr. Notev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by saying this, I stand behind every word I have just said before you, including the reproach I make to the Deputy Prime Minister. Excuse me, the importance of engagement in the Council of Ministers must, of course, be consistent, but no less important is what we are dealing with today. And since my reproach was given precisely to the absence, it could not have been done in the presence of the Deputy Prime Minister. I'm not the first reason for this circumstance. That's exactly what I'm commenting on. As for the second line of the President of the Legal Commission Mr. Kirilov, I thank you for finding a position and a basis in what was said in the first part of my speech. It was really emotional. I believe in what I'm saying. Many of you remember the emotional expression and approach of the MP from past formats of the National Assembly. Kornezov, who called for the honor of the Pagon, for the honor of the legal pagon. I think there is a place to make such calls, such invitations when we solve such important problems. Absolutely unacceptable are the practices of opaqueness, of corruption, of interference in the distribution of cases and any other depraved phenomena to which we cannot say yes. However, we have said that what is offered to us as a Strategy, underestimates, neglects, and if I use the words of Mr. Zelenogorski, it masks the problems. Containing and systematic are vices, defects and deficits in this Strategy. That's why we can't stand behind her. Otherwise, we are about to start working on such measures tomorrow or this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u67	Thank you, Mr. Notev. There's a recording of Mr. Kazak and Mr. Mestan. I suggest this happens after the break. I'm calling a 30-minute break. The sitting was held at 12.05. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u68	Honourable Members, we are continuing the meeting. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. For a statement before the break, the National Representative Chetin Kazak signed up. Mr. Kazak, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u69	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Seeing how full the hall is, despite the importance of the document, I suspect that the report of President Plevneliev's three-year period is clearly more interesting. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has always supported and has, in principle, been tangible, indeed all initiatives and legislative steps aimed at improving the functioning and organisation of the judiciary. When the Movement for Rights and Freedoms took part and shared responsibility for the management of the state, the most important changes related to Bulgaria's membership in NATO and in the European Union took place and changed both in the Constitution as a result of this membership and following the expectations and recommendations of the European Commission for improving the functioning of the judiciary and in all other laws, starting with the Law on the Judiciary relating to this problem. Therefore, we will not allow anyone to succumb to the temptation as a result of our position on this particular document to accuse or launch insinuations that the DPS is hardly against judicial reform. We will not allow the DPS to be blamed for putting a pole in the effort to improve its functioning. On the contrary, I hope that we will have enough time to prove during the discussion of specific legislative steps that the DPS will continue to support all those constructive, motivated proposals that aim precisely at improving the judiciary and overcoming the shortcomings in its functioning. However, this does not mean that we should specifically support this document, which has been presented to us today and which we are discussing. This is a document allegedly developed by three governments. That's for sure. However, unfortunately, during his discussion at two meetings of the Committee on Legal Affairs it became clear that he had far from acquired the type of completed document containing undisputed commitments and proposals. It became clear that he was not sufficiently well consulted with all interested circles and professional organizations, NGOs and so on. I have here, and you have probably all heard and read that a number of professional organizations such as the Bulgarian Jury Association, the Association of Prosecutors in Bulgaria and the Chamber of Investigators in Bulgaria have made critical remarks on the main points contained in the first part of this Strategy Project. During the discussion, the Prosecutor General also made comments and it was not important. At this discussion, I personally had the opportunity to present my principled criticism of the philosophy of this Strategy that it, first of all, has an unfinished appearance, has an impractical character. On the one hand, in some of its situations it contains many concrete proposals, but in other parts it contains absolutely generally formulated, vaguely formulated acts which in no way give the idea, intention, the vision of the authors of how the judiciary should develop. The main criticism we have is that the first part of this Strategy proposes a return to a situation that we have overcome years ago due to the pressure of the European Commission. It is proposed to go back in the form of an organisation to manage the Supreme Judicial Council permanently, as it is now, and as it happened precisely after the pressure of the European Commission, to the situation of a erratic Supreme Judicial Council. What's the motive? Why do we have to go back a path we've come and make sure it's the right one? No motives, no arguments. What requires that the Supreme Judicial Council be restored to the form of erratic functioning? On the other hand, we are offered to set up committees of posted acting magistrates, who, you see, are constantly active. So we are directly turning over the entire philosophy enshrined in the Constitution for the functioning of this highest governing body of the judicial authority, a fickle acting Supreme Judicial Council, which, under the Constitution, has all the powers to take and take the most important decisions in the judicial system and permanent support bodies, committees composed of posted magistrates. Me, and my colleagues, we don't see the logic in one of these reconstructions. Next, what we cannot support is the separation of the Supreme Judicial Council from a single acting body, as is set out in the Constitution, of two solo colleagues, both judge and prosecutorial investigators. This proposal, firstly, contradicts the constitutional design and constitutional text of the Supreme Judicial Council's decision as a single body. The Constitution has nowhere foreseen such a hypothesis in which decisions relating to personnel growth and disciplinary liability, such as judges, should be taken by some body which is drawn up within the Supreme Judicial Council. This proposal must first be verified whether it is constitutionally relevant in our view, no. The Supreme Judicial Council is a single body and it must remain one. It is proposed to review the parliamentary quota of the Supreme Judicial Council. The parliamentary quota of the Supreme Judicial Council is also fixed in the Constitution. Any revision thereof, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, shall undergo a change of the respective constitutional text, which no doubt after the famous Constitutional Court Decision No 3 may take place only by means of a Grand National Assembly. Changes are proposed in the status of the Presidents of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Supreme Administrative Court and the Prosecutor General. What changes is not clear, changes in the status of the three senior magistrates. Public mechanisms for controlling the parliamentary quota. What public mechanisms? The parliamentary quota is an integral part of the overall composition of the Supreme Judicial Council. At the moment, the Supreme Judicial Council is taking its decisions, as I said, as a single body. How will any distinction be made between only public control over the parliamentary quota and there will be no public control over the judicial quota, on the magistrate's quota? Also an absolutely illogical solution that is not in sync with the actual status of the body. When proposing the division of the Supreme Judicial Council of two colleges, I also asked the question in the Committee on Legal Affairs: and where will those members of the Supreme Judicial Council, who were not magistrates, were neither judges nor prosecutors and investigators? You know that under Constitution and the Law on the Judiciary provides for an opportunity for members of the Supreme Judicial Council to be elected lawyers who are not magistrates, such as lawyers, law professors, lawyers who have proven themselves in spheres unrelated directly to the magistrate's own career. Where will they meet and what will their status be? This Strategy does not contain an answer to this question. Regarding the development of criminal policy, there is no clearly stated commitment and vision on the cardinal issue: will efforts be continued to adopt a new Penal Code, or is it strongly proposed that we stay and strive to improve the current Penal Code? There's also no clear vision. Regarding the disciplinary procedure, a highly controversial proposal. At the moment, you know that the disciplinary procedure is being fully developed before the Supreme Judicial Council with the possibility of an institutional appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court. Currently, in the Strategy, the overall disciplinary procedure and only a competent authority to impose disciplinary penalties is proposed to become the Supreme Court of Cassation. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, it is written in the Constitution that the Supreme Judicial Council is only competent for the most severe disciplinary penalties. If you want to transfer the entire disciplinary proceedings to the Supreme Court of Cassation, you must also inevitably undergo a constitutional change, but this is not stated. With regard to matters relating to the financing of the judiciary, the Ethics Code of magistrates, there are also good proposals, but they are not detailed. After all, honourable Members, we in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, as I said, will continue to support every concrete step towards improvement, to improve the functioning of the judiciary, but specifically this document does not contain enough arguments for such support. Therefore, honourable Members, we already have our criticisms that have been expressed, and this document does not meet both the expectations of the European partners and the commitment to present a clear document on the continuation of this Strategy. I want an extension of the parliamentary group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u70	You're gonna have to extend the time. Any lines to Mr. Kazak? I won't. The word is Mr. Yavor Haytov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Hardly anyone, not only in this House, but also in our entire society, needs a special belief that judicial reform is necessary. Today the government is bringing here a document that is not the reform itself, but a intention for it. He has no clear action plan, no clear road map, no sources of funding. We are told that funding would come from hidden reserves of the system, but in fact: what is the main problem? You fellow Members know perfectly well that such a document does not need to be voted by Parliament. This is highlighted by the importers themselves. It can be accepted at a meeting of the Council of Ministers and then the government can start implementing it by submitting the amendments it needs, but obviously this procedure does not seem reliable enough to our partners from the European Commission. Apparently, they don't trust a government document and want to make sure there's a political will to change. This conviction can only give them Parliament, and now we are asked to support an imperfect document, as used to be said in the old days: Let us not expose ourselves to foreigners. The Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center will give two votes in support of this reform and this is a sign that we want it to happen. For the rest of us, we will vote abstention. We do not do this because we like reform or the government, but because we recognise the need for both reform and government. We reserve the right to make serious amendments when the debate begins on the ground. Allow me to express a doubt. After we start all this for the foreigners, do we really want reform, or are we just pulling the numbers again? Unthinkable, more likely to be on Facebook than really changing people's lives. We sincerely hope that the ruling authorities will dispel our concerns over the next few weeks. This will be good not only for them, it will be good for all Bulgarian citizens who no longer believe in words such as................................................................................... Otherwise, the Bulgarian National Assembly will once again be used as a front for propaganda reforms. I ask myself, Dear Minister, why are you submitting this document right now? Can we not wait about a week when the European Commission's report will actually come out, where clear and precise criticism and remarks will be made, and then slowly, calmly and methodically vote on a strategy that will be truly complete and comprehensive. I'm finishing up with the following few analyses. There is no financial justification under the proposed Strategy. Practicing lawyers want to know and clearly hear what happens to the military magistrates? How will the investigators continue to work? Why do we need so many administrative courts? The work of the Supreme Administrative Court has not been eased. When will the situation of prisoners improve? The European Court of Justice has repeatedly condemned Bulgaria for the bad conditions in prisons. We want to hear clearly if you want to change the Constitution when and in which texts? We also want to know whether the Civil Procedure Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Administrative Procedure Code will be amended? Last but not least: what do you see as a necessity for a change in the Law on the Judiciary? Without opposing cabinet members, I will allow myself to give an example of the way in which the Strategy for Reform in the Ministry of Interior was presented. There every minister in the ministry was explained how it would develop career and, on the other hand, the very structure of the office. I graduated. I have expressed the opinion of our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u72	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u73	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The foundations of the judiciary, for the reform of which we did not hear a political force being declared against as a common necessity, are laid down in the Constitution of Bulgaria since 1991 and later by the Law on the Judiciary, which was radically amended in 1998, when we witnessed the usurping of the entire parliamentary quota of 11 members of the Supreme Council by a single, understanding, political power. In this sense, almost all the parties that are in this National Assembly have a bearing on the state of the judiciary, and especially a strong commitment to the reform of some of the political forces can be explained by a reference to the ancient Greek tragedy of Sophocles' Antigona, in which the choir has a vow: Perhaps a heavy fatherly sin you are atoneing. Dear Minister, I think it is useful to recall that in the Constitution of Bulgaria, and here I am opening a very important clamp, the DPS Parliamentary Group in the Seventh Grand People's Assembly did not sign this Constitution, there are such principles of the judiciary, which, given the negative experience of the totalitarian state, in which the court and prosecutor's office were a direct instrument in the hands of the executive power and of a party of necessity, the founder of the Seventh Grand National Assembly, went to the other extreme in the settlement of the status of the judiciary. Understandably, then the principle of the independent court included the other components of the judiciary and the prosecution and the investigation. Yes, we went to the other extreme, as if the principle of separation of powers set by Montesquieu had degenerated into barriers between the authorities, their total independence and controllessness, and apparently in the years the need to balance the interaction between the authorities was necessary. Therefore were the attempts to change the basic law, only the founder of the Seventh Grand National Assembly, did something more.. transferred to the competences of the Grand National Assembly only part of the aspects of possible reforms in the judiciary, others are of the competence of constitutional amendment by the ordinary National Assembly, and third are of the resources of the special Law on the judiciary. I would therefore quite honestly like to share that we have expected you to present us with a Strategy in which the various aspects of judicial reform are differentiated according to the resources of a simple law, constitutional amendment and, respectively, amendments that are of the competence of a Grand National Assembly. I have to tell you that the DPS Parliamentary Group is open to dialogue, to actively participate in such a responsible approach. If the ultimate objective of judicial reform is the establishment of the rule of law, then the mechanisms on which constitutional change is to move should be consistent with the rule of law principle and not at the expense of the rule of law. And in such a sense, this Strategy may contain many elements, but clearly indicate that their realization is from the competence of constitutional change and, respectively, the amendments to be of the competence of a Grand National Assembly. We are also open to the conversation about the Grand National Assembly. What cannot be relied on by the DPS is an approach whereby, in the name of the rule of law, we break the rule of law and therefore the Constitution in the Strategy cannot and should not have any self-sustaining or unconstitutional situations. I will refer to a very important element of this Strategy. The change in the status of the Supreme Judicial Council by a permanent body in a body that will be divided into two colleges without having permanent status. My colleagues have already reminded you, and it is very useful to hear me and Mrs. Meglena Kuneva, because this change was not someone's idea of gaining status as a permanent Supreme Judicial Council. This happened in 2007 after very difficult negotiations with the European Commission. You, as Minister for European Affairs from the Stanishev cabinet, had a direct attitude towards this negotiation process. Now you are Deputy Prime Minister in the cabinet Borisov 2. Another minister from Stanishev's cabinet, at the triple coalition, also had a direct attitude towards this process. The then Minister of Foreign Affairs, he, and Deputy Prime Minister from Stanishev, now Deputy Prime Minister in the cabinet Borisov 2 Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin. And you know that this change was the result of the dialogue, I will not say it was imposed by the European Commission. I ask you: why do you give up your own product? What's that supposed to mean? If behind this change lies a simple tactical technical method to repeat the numbers since 1998. To replace some members of the Supreme Judicial Council with your party quota, this cannot be supported by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, because it is not reform, but self-purpose political, party, it and the 4 party format of today's government. Therefore, as a responsible political force, I say today from this high tribune: there is time until the end of the debates, if we hear from you a clear commitment to correct these texts, there may also be a change in the position of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Yes, you can! And that's the most important thing I have to say with that statement. But we will follow the debates to the end and hear the will of the cabinet, of course, of the ruling coalition. This is what it looks like to us. We're opposition. And a very, very important question for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u74	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u75	Yeah, I'm done with that. Are you looking for the support of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, or like your political benefactors, your strategy is rather to remain in an absolutely ridiculous thesis that in 2012 in the Forty-first National Assembly was formed a triple coalition - Mr. Tsvetanov, it was between you "GERB," BSP and DPS"? You have already come out of this coalition because you support judicial reform. There is also a call for BSP to come out of this coalition to remain in it only DPS. The movement for rights and freedoms was opposition to the cabinet Borisov. In the Forty-first National Assembly, we were deaf opposition and it is absolutely ridiculous for a parliamentary group leader to claim that the judiciary in 2012 had passed into the hands of the DPS. With what, with just two proposed by me members of the Supreme Judicial Council? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This is not the language of dialogue, Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u76	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u77	It's the language of expulsion, it's the language of isolationism. This is not the way to agree, not the way to responsible changes, including constitutional ones. But despite this language, we will remain faithful to our political responsibility to support everything constructively, as long as it is consistent with the basic law, I repeat, which is not signed by us, but in the amendment of which [[the President signals that time has run out]] We are prepared to participate with all our responsibility. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u78	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u79	Madam President, Madam Vice Prime Minister, Mr Minister, honourable Members! Today we are discussing the presented updated strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary. In order to have a starting point in the debate, we must first understand what the current state of the system is, and in general, it is bad. I cannot disagree with the negative findings made in the Strategy as well, on corruption in the judiciary, critically low public confidence, poor administration and inefficiency of the resources used, lack of positive career selection and motivation, poor working conditions and low material and technical collateralisation in the largest and key units of the system. The main function of the system to guarantee the rule of law and to be an effective mechanism for the protection and realization of the rights of natural and legal persons is violated and limited. By making these negative findings, we need to make it clear that while the poor functional state of the judiciary exists, it is ultimately the result of the wrong transition and corresponds to the general state of our society. The justice system is sick because our society as a whole is sick and retarded. How are we going to fight corruption at the desperate level of poverty that we are in, thanks to the right-wing policies? How will we increase the qualification of magistrates when constantly lowering the level of secondary and higher education? How are we going to provide the material and technical system and how are we going to introduce electronization, provided that the government adopts restrictive budgets which do not finance and the judiciary? These are only a small part of the important issues on which we should think and which we should take into account when setting and conducting judicial reform. Unfortunately, the strategy does not provide adequate answers to these questions. The twenty-five-year neoliberal transition has led the judicial system to its present unsatisfactory state and is the result of the policy of the right and liberal parties, which wrongly targeted and stimulated to a significant extent its degradation. Moreover, it would not be wrong to say that by legislative changes and changing the compositions of the Supreme Judicial Council, the right and liberal parties sought politically to subjugate and bind the judiciary. The responsibility for the current state of the judiciary and the judiciary is primarily for the right-wing parties. For every reasonable person there is no doubt that the state of the judiciary prejudges the necessity, I would even say determines the ultimate necessity of carrying out meaningful, stressing, meaningful, reforms in order to improve the functionality and modernisation of the system in the context of reaching the standards of justice in the European Union. Based on modern social ideas and values of social justice, security and solidarity, BSP is for immediate and deep judicial reform. We have supported and will support all sensible strategies, plans, legislative solutions or measures aimed at restoring the functionality of the system, combating corruption, improving the quality of the personnel resource and its motivation. We are for conducting a meaningful and targeted judicial reform, not for pseudo-reforms or reporting reforms. Social justice and security could not be achieved without a functioning judicial system guaranteeing the realization and defender of the rights of natural and legal persons. We believe that the proposed document to a certain extent, but not entirely, meets the objectives of the reform needed by the judiciary and can be further supported. The main question that raises the presented Strategy is: should we implement the reform within the framework of the current Constitution or not? If there is political and public agreement that this is not possible, the reform should be preceded by a broad public debate on the necessary constitutional amendments to the establishment of the judiciary and in achieving a broad public and political consensus, the Constitution should first be amended and judicial reform should take place on the basis of this change. In order to be realistic and effective, the strategy must clearly limit the necessary and possible objectives, legislative changes and organizational and technical measures in and according to the current Constitution. The contrary would mean that the strategy hidden and silently introduces constitutional reforms. We will be particularly careful and cautious in arguing and making constitutional amendments, including regarding the establishment of the judiciary. It is naive to believe that constitutional amendments are in themselves a panacea to solve the problems of the judiciary. There is also no empirical data or a serious analysis of functionality that clearly shows the need for constitutional amendments. We are for the strategy to be as clear as possible and if the government also proposes constitutional amendments, firstly, to put these amendments on the table and be widely debated. To society and to us politicians, it must be clear whether the constitutional model for the structure of the judiciary is exhausted or possible improvement and effective functioning in the current Constitution, as long as there is political and legislative will in the government and mind and diligence in the governing bodies and subjective factors of the system. To conclude, I would like to draw attention to a few more essential questions. The updated Strategy is also subject to substantial remarks regarding its specific content. There is no prioritization of objectives and actions both in terms of their own importance and in terms of the consistency of implementation and the possibility of the fastest and most effective implementation. It is not enough just to set six strategic goals and several dozen sub-targets, some of which are definitely provocative. It must clearly define the future expected result and, at the same time, determine what is the hierarchy of the objectives achieved. The strategic objectives thus formulated are also controversial. For example, why is e-Justice not a single strategic objective, and only criminal policy is such? Why is achieving a good level of material and technical security not a permanent strategic objective, and increasing confidence in the judiciary an independent one? Finally, a large part of the intended sub-targets, some of which essentially represent implementation measures, are reduced to carrying out assessments and development of plans. Shouldn't evaluations and preliminary analyses precede the formulation and implementation of objectives rather than the opposite? It is also necessary to dismiss the intended purpose of a constitutional complaint. It should not apply to the matter of judicial reform. It is obvious that the proposed Strategy needs adjustments. Let us, with joint efforts, implement them and agree on this so that a wider consensus can be formed, which is a prerequisite for effective implementation of the updated Strategy, is a guarantee of its implementation. Otherwise, we will adopt an unfit, unfit document and we will only take into account reforms, and none of these will actually take place, and this will be clear with the adoption of the document. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u80	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? I won't. Do other MPs wish to participate in the discussion? Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, honourable MPs! This discussion was not necessary at this time. The previous time in 2010, the Strategy was adopted by the Council of Ministers and no one raised the question of what was implemented by this Strategy, behind which efforts were attached not only to one cabinet. Very often we suffer from the feeling that speaking in the National Assembly can change the real actions of legislative and management. We are discussing a document that is too controversial in its content. I do not want to suspect that the government will try to involve the opposition in an a priorial support for concrete measures which may then be too far from understanding to improve the efficiency of the functioning of the judiciary system. Just so you know, I've said it before and there's no justice system, there's a system of the judiciary. Whatever. I do not want us to understand this document in any way as pre-solving positions on future legislative or constitutional issues. We have to say very clearly: if anyone suspects that if we give any support to the government's efforts today, this implies some other agreement on things that have not yet been submitted to the National Assembly, that is not the case! In the document there are three types of measures and actions to be carried out by different bodies, one of them is in the executive power; the other are in the judiciary, which is absent today in this discussion, as well as its body, the Supreme Judicial Council; and the third are in our field. Let me just point out to you that Parliament is indebted to the judiciary. He found no time in the previous or previous term to examine and discuss the reports on the activity of both the Supreme Judicial Council and the Prosecutor's Office and the courts. These reports remained in the archives, which shows our great hypocrisy, not just for now, regarding concerns about the functioning of the judiciary. If that were to change, if the National Assembly were really responsible for participating in these discussions, set up as constitutional mechanisms here in the field of parliament, I believe that things would not have looked like this. We do not accept that the Supreme Judicial Council is not constantly acting. We are dealing with very large reservations about the division of colleges of the Supreme Judicial Council, because this would lead to the encapsulation of systems. If you open the reports on the verification and partnership mechanism from the years 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, you will see that what is proposed, hints or has an idea for its change is assessed by the European Commission as positive. Therefore, there is an attempt to make another legal change, and perhaps some imagine it as constitutional, to imitate activity and concern. We will support genuine concern, but we do not want the opposition behind it to be involved in a mechanical search for majorities which, after three or four years, will not lead to any significant change in the attitude towards the judiciary that we are suffering from today. I think Mr. Mestan reminded Mrs. Kuneva well of these questions before me. It is good then to return to this discussion, including on constitutional changes. To see, before discussing the issue of constitutional changes at all, what are the reasons for being in the Constitution, or the reasons are in personal relations, personal relationships, personal dependencies that are not always related to politics to be so leper and called the political quota that the National Assembly gives in the Supreme Judicial Council. I think this should stay in the transcripts and if there really is a good intention, read and analyze carefully before the next steps. I believe that this document is indeed open and declarative enough, but it will never meet the objectives that we otherwise support, without attracting the judiciary, not separate circles, groups, groups and the modern word lobby inside the judiciary. They periodically prevail in making legislative decisions, periodic folk representation consults different groups and periodically changes are made and reported. In 2010, due to the Strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers then, serious changes were made to the Law on the Judiciary. Look and analyze their results, because today we note that this has not worked since 2010, otherwise we wouldn't be dealing with it now. Dear Members of Parliament, we would like to treat the government's attempt to solve a serious problem for the state that goes beyond party-political differences. But we would also like there to be sufficient guarantees that today's discussion of the Strategy is not a discussion that gives public, media, public packaging of a developed action plan for legislative and even constitutional changes. On this point, we need to be aware that we do not expect this type of action, and this is not a front for these actions and the announcement of a large agreement reached. We would therefore like for more assurance in the decision adopted by the National Assembly to make several additions to give us a chance to join in the support of the government's intentions. And what will happen from these intentions will we see when the specific bills are introduced. With regard to the Supreme Judicial Council as a permanent body, that is to say, there is a text to confirm that we are looking for an increase in the quality and effectiveness of the model of the Supreme Judicial Council as a permanent body. Because I don't want to go back to how the Supreme Judicial Council functioned before it was a permanent body, how it happened back then, how the heads of district courts had become the foundation of the system. I can also list by name. It seems illogical to us to encapsulate individual entities inside the system. This will lead to the simple question: and the lawyers, and the public, and the researchers in which quotas are closer to the judge's or prosecutor's? Where will they go? We insist on maintaining the role of the National Assembly in setting a parliamentary quota. Dear Members of the National Assembly, there are currently 17 judges in the Supreme Judicial Council. You from GERB have chosen and offered a large part of them. [[GERB lines.]] Yeah, and we've been involved in this, but I say most of it...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u82	Less than a minute of your time, Mr. Mikov. Consider this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u83	An extension.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u84	It's extended, you have less than a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u85	We insist on strengthening the role of the Inspectorate in the Supreme Judicial Council to guarantee the independence and responsibility of the judiciary, to increase the requirements for magistrates who apply for administrative leadership, not to allow the membership of magistrates in non-public organisations. Finally, the big legislative constitutional issues remain open, which I very much hope the government will give clarity about them and, on the constitutional ones, I think the place is here between the parliamentary groups. We propose to add these proposals to the Decision Project and then define our position, including as support for the government's efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u86	Do you have in writing the proposals, Mr. Mikov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u87	I've got them sketched. I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u88	Any lines to Mr. Mikov's statement? I won't. Minister Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u89	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, firstly, thank you very much for the serious discussion. - Both for the criticism and for the support and for the positive assessments. Secondly, I very much liked the qualifications that a BSP colleague made on the document. He says the document is incomplete. The document couldn't have been completed before...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u90	Excuse me, Minister, for interrupting. Colleagues, the noise in this room is so high that we can't hear it within a meter of the minister. They give signs of individual MPs, they want to follow the debate, but the others are in their way and they have no opportunity. I'm asking for your fellowship. Excuse me, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u91	Sorry, I'll try to speak louder.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u92	I apologize for interrupting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u93	The document could not have been completed before it went through this type of debate about................................................................................................... So thank you for it. We could not, all the more so that this document was made during the caretaker government, make any final requests which would change with constitutional changes, what would change with the service, even less what would be done with the Grand National Assembly, the least because we well know that Decision No 3, which seemed to demarcate the difference between what could be done with the Grand National Assembly, what could be done by the Grand National Assembly, except that it is quite controversial in its approach, leaves quite unclear about what is actually coming from it. So here, at least in my view, we are talking about a complex attempt to involve MPs and parliamentary groups in such a debate. And the debate must continue. In this sense, I would like to answer the most important question that Mr. Mestan has put........................ are we looking for the support of the DPS? Mr. Mestan, may I say, you have referred to the widespread opinion that the Supreme Judicial Council is controlled by the DPS. I do not recall as a minister commenting on such things, but what I am about to tell you quite frankly on this subject is the following for me, regardless of who controls and what is the name of the party that could have and be suspected of having such control, our aim is not to remove one party from such control and replace it with another. Our goal should be to make this impossible in the future for any party and to make such doubts in society impossible to recover the good name of justice. In this sense, what someone claims and tries to do as speculation on this subject is really not important. And the battle against a particular political force or not is something that perhaps on the political field has its logic, but if we want to make a really long-term judicial reform, it is not constructive. I would also like to say one more thing - one of the main objectives of this judicial reform - is to guarantee the independence of the court, which aims at one thing which is known as the anti-majoritarian role of the court. It is the court that guarantees the rights of minorities and their freedoms. I hope that you will recognize yourself in this cause and, in continuing the debate on the proposals for judicial reform, we will indeed receive your support, for which I will be grateful. In this sense, the proposals I see here, proposed as texts by Mr. Mikov, together with the specific criticisms he makes, are perfectly acceptable to me so that we can continue to use this document as a starting point for debate from here on in the framework of specific legislative, I hope and constitutional changes. We will look for support for possible constitutional changes in the model of the Supreme Judicial Council, because regardless of the options proposed by the Strategy, one is clear: it does not provide the level of good governance of the judiciary, which is necessary for it to work well enough. Something has to be done. Here in Parliament is where this thing should be discussed. We will work to form a union around a vision of such a change, which includes the support of a constitutional majority. Thank you for your suggestions, Mr. Mikov. I refer to these texts that I have in front of me, with a positive attitude and find them absolutely acceptable, they have my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u94	Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u95	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u96	Personal explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u97	I apologize, Madam President. Dear Minister, I have just stressed that we do not want this to be understood as a mandate for constitutional changes, and you are saying that what I say is that the strategy is rather a political and public packaging of formed intentions and ready-made bills is so! Before the analysis is done, starting from the beginning, go together. If you have decided to make these changes, and we are to be present as supportive in this story, we do not want such a role, we do not need such a role! Let's be clear. Thank you. [[Replicate from Minister Hristo Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u98	You can, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u99	Mr. Mikov, I have in no way interpreted your position. I said we would be looking for a serious change, including if we had to do so through constitutional changes. Naturally, they cannot happen without your support, so the conversation is imperative. Of course we have some vision of what needs to be done. I think we're getting into an absolutely unnecessary conversation. Clearly, such changes will require a broad majority. I will personally work for the maximum broad majority, without excluding any of it. We will have some concrete proposals... if you accept them, they will happen if we do not continue the conversation. I don't see why it's complicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u100	The word is Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to thank you for this debate that you have had today, and to tell you that it would be a mistake if we understood the Judicial Strategy, which you have been looking at today with such insistentness, the Strategy makes sense when dealing with a series of joint efforts. Some of them are related, for example, to the Strategy for Change in the Work of the Ministry of Interior or the Anticorruption Strategy. That is, if we look at just one segment, we will not see a complete picture that can lead to a real change in the way the rule of law is understood and applied. I would like to suggest quite business to each of the parliamentary groups, which wants us to have a special meeting with the Minister of Interior, with other colleagues, in order to talk at all about the strategies that we propose in the area of rule of law, to see them in the full picture: give me a sign - as Deputy Prime Minister I can arrange with pleasure such a meeting, either with the whole group, or with individual experts. The question is to find out which direction we want to show ambition. In my opinion, this direction is clear.. independence of the judiciary. To a large extent, the way magistrates are chosen, the way they are evaluated, will actually answer many of the questions that we are asking ourselves here today. Perhaps there is not a single model of whether it will be permanent or temporary, the Supreme Judicial Council. As we return to the time of negotiations, we had a project with Spain on this subject. Then that was that recommendation. Let us see that the permanent Supreme Judicial Council will answer the question. It's been a long time. Let's see if this is what is now the best and most important thing for Bulgaria today. The proposal that comes from the government is what you see right now. It is important to keep the dialogue calm, weigh all the arguments. Nothing is forever. I know we're all eager to create the perfect, perfect justice system, but sometimes we have to remember the good English saying that perfect is the enemy of good. Let's make a good judicial reform. And when we have new arguments, new evidence, let's separate the controversial from the undeniable and make the next step to do even better in judicial reform. Now we must have a sense of urgency and not justify that things depend far from us in time, on big changes, on big plans, on big majoritys. Today we are able to make such a large majority. Thank you, and I hope we can work constructively together.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. Anyone else who wants to make a statement? Mr. Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, since this debate has been going on for a very long time, I will try to be very brief. First of all, to thank Mr. Mikov very much for the so expressed compromise position, because these are the tone and direction in which we should be going at the moment. The proposals, as they were sketched out, have not seen them recorded to express the support of the Reform bloc group to such proposals for a change to the National Assembly's Decision on the Strategy. This one first. Secondly, to stress in line with these proposals that it is dangerous and untenable that the Strategy of the Council of Ministers should be seen as a reform of justice. It can only be seen as a basis for future reform or for future reforms, and above all as a basis for dialogue, which includes legislative measures, a dialogue which includes a discussion on the possible need for constitutional changes, if such is the assessment of a sufficient number of MPs. On the other hand, when we comment on the topic in this spirit of consensus, which needs such a decision at all, we should be aware that we are all huge debtors of the Bulgarian society, of every Bulgarian citizen. I thank Mr. Mestan for the remark about father's sin. We all have an original sin in this regard. We owe, first of all, the habit of delaying the painful problems, a thread that creeps in today's debate. It is clear that great majorities must be collected, it is clear that we must seek constitutional change, but it is also clear that the subject does not tolerate any delay at all. Secondly, the tendency to inactivity and underestimate the problems in the judiciary, something that was very clear during the debates in the parliamentary committees. We need to speak directly, clearly and categorically about the judicial system has a huge corruption problem. This is not about minor problems or organizational details. And thirdly, we are indebted because of the fact of a long-standing malicious political and political-corruption intervention in the judiciary, something that we need to say in the right text. For if the truth is not spoken, sin will not be corrected either. Today we have arrived, and not because of the European Union report, but because of the state of our society, until no one can pretend to be distracted on this subject anymore. Today, there is no longer a delay or inaction, this delay and inaction are active empathy, they are aligned to the malicious forms of political pressure on the system. We all know the relentless truth about the results of our long-standing transgressions towards the judiciary. We've come this far for the magistrates to tell us themselves if we accidentally missed it. That's why I'm saying we can't pretend to be distracted. I call on us not to succumb to the temptations of the negotiations on judicial reform, which are yet to come, to be used to divide or break up majorities, to change the balance in parliament. I also call on us not to give in to fear of the return of the status quo, because this fear has already been shown by many of us. It is also seen in the eyes of many of us. Very serious forces against us are largely the offspring, as I said, of our actions, to a large extent...................... or of our unlawful inactions. I call on us not to allow the conversation of consensus on some imaginary guilds that are affected. Ladies and gentlemen, the magistrates are not the magistrates. They are the highest representatives of state power. It's like calling the Council of Ministers "Gildi" and taking into account today's members of the Council of Ministers when we make legislative decisions. In conclusion, our obligation to repay this overdue debt to Bulgarian citizens is common. He hasn't matured in a long time. It has long been so overdue that it brings damage of a political, social, economic nature. Billions of levee investments have been missed due to the lack of reform in justice, but perhaps more importantly, hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens have left us with this main reason for leaving to countries where there is rule of law. So, the reform isn't today. The reform is coming. We are inclined to adopt Parliament's compromise decision on the Strategy, which does not mean that we will be willing to compromise on reform, because the aim of the reform is not abstract. The aim of the reform is for us to have the successful report that the Romanians currently have on their control mechanism, and the successful report is expressed in "Policies and magistrates in prison!" The aim of the reform is that some of us will go to jail for those who have broken the law and committed crimes, so I hope that those who feel threatened will vote against it and not abstention. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u104	A line? I won't. I hope there's no personal explanation. Any other MPs? There aren't any. The debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, a proposal for an editorial change has been made in the draft decision proposed to us in the report of the Legal Commission and presented to us by its President Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Mikov's proposal continues what is written in the operative of the draft decision. If you'd like, Mr. Mikov, please come in. My request is, Mr. Mikov, here is the draft decision, the operative part, in fact with you after the justice system.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u105	The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Approves the updated strategy for continuing judicial reform as the basis for legislative changes, governance actions and analysis of the constitutional framework for the judiciary and considers - continue to improve the quality and effectiveness of the SJC model as a permanent functioning body; - strengthen the role of the Inspectorate to the SJC in ensuring the independence and responsibility of the judiciary; - to increase the requirements for magistrates applying for administrative directors; - not to allow the membership of magistrates in non-public organisations. The decision was adopted by the Forty-third National Assembly. For the shorthand only, please add up to the pre-amble: the updated strategy for continuing reform of the judiciary adopted by Decision No 825 of the Council of Ministers of 2014...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u106	Thank you. I'm voting... [[Noise and lines.]] What do you want, Mr. Georgiev? [[GERB lines.]] I can't hear you, please come in. I don't understand what you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u107	Madam President, I would like to ask for a clarification. I think I have been clear in my speech and I have proposed to make a clear point on page 16 of the Strategic Objective 5 (Strategic Objective 5) related to the direct constitutional appeal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u108	Mr. Georgiev, the act was adopted by decision of the Council of Ministers. Then, when the National Assembly adopts its own strategies and similar documents, we have the opportunity to essentially make changes to the version of the relevant document. Here the procedure is quite different and is therefore admissible under the submitted draft decision only editorial amendments and additions, as Mr. Mikov added the draft decision proposed to us by the Legal Commission in its report, so there is no procedural way to allow your proposal to remove this text from the Strategy, which is already an act of the Council of Ministers. We can't change it. We can say: "Yes, we approve, we approve, or we do not approve, under specific conditions, but we do not essentially change individual elements of it. I put to the vote the supplement to the written and stated by the plenary tribune proposal of Mr. Mikov that: The National Assembly approves the updated Strategy as the basis for legislative changes, governance actions and analysis of the constitutional framework for the judiciary and considers it to be the same as he duly read it in detail. We are voting on the supplement proposed by Mr. Mikov. Did everyone get a vote? Vote 192 MPs: 177, against 1, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the full decision with the supplement, which sounds like this: ? RESPONSIBILITY? approving an updated strategy for continuing judicial reform The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Approves the updated strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary adopted by Decision No 825 of the Council of Ministers of 2014 We are voting for the full version of the Decision. They voted 195 MPs: 173 against 4, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB.]] Thank you, the updated strategy, with the additions we voted on, has been approved by the National Assembly. Mr. Atanasov, procedure. [[People coming out of plenary.]] Colleagues, there's no call for a break.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u109	Thank you, Madam President. On the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal to extend the deadline for proposals between first and second readings under the General Draft Law amending the Act on the Ministry of Interior, submitted by Report No 553-06-1 of 14 January 2014, for four days. I ask you to support this proposal because the Bill is very bulky and can have time for the MPs to prepare their proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u110	As long as the deadline isn't over today, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u111	No, it's not expired.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u112	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put the procedural proposal to the vote. They voted 130 MPs: 125, against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Moving to the third point of our weekly program: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO EXTEND THE SUPERVISOR OF THE BULGARIAN People's BANK. There has been a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mr. Kirilov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u113	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the draft decision on the exemption of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, No 554-02-1, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 14 January 2015. At its meeting held on 15 January 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs examined the draft decision on the release of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, No 554-02-1, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The proposal for the adoption of the Decision is motivated by the fact inability to fulfil the legal obligations of the Bulgarian National Bank Governor Tsvetan Lubomirov Gunev after mid-June 2014. In addition to taking leave of leave from him after pre-trial proceedings, as an additional obstacle to exercising his authority as a sub-governeur in charge of management, the Bank's supervision is also the withdrawal at the request of the prosecution of Tsvetan Gunev's access to classified information, as well as his removal from office by decision of the Sofia Court of Appeal. In addition to those described obstacles to the enforcement of the legal obligations by the guarantor, those found by the competent authorities of pre-trial proceedings in the course of the investigation concerning the state of the Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs unanimously proposed to the National Assembly the following Project: DECISION on the release of a sub-government of the Bulgarian National Bank The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 14, para. Art. 1, in conjunction with Art. 1 12, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 19th para. 1 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank HAS DECIDED Releases Tsvetan Lubomirov Gounev from the position of deputy governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, head of the management of the Bank supervision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u114	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. One of the importers for an opinion? I won't. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the decision to release the governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, presented to us by the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The decision has been adopted unanimously. Anyone want a re-vote? There's no demand for a re-vote. The decision was adopted unanimously. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE OWNITY AND USE OF EARTHS OF EARTHS. Importers sveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. Who will present the report to the Committee on Agriculture and Food? Vice-President of the Commission Tsveta Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u115	Dear colleagues, I present to you: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land, No 554-01-2, submitted by Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs on 14 January 2015. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 20 January 2015, discussing the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land, No 554-01-2, submitted by Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs on 14 January 2015. In the Commission's work took part: from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva Minister, Tsvetan Dimitrov and Vasil Grudev Deputy Ministers, Stiliyan Mitev Director of the Directorate of Regional Relations and Comasion, Lilia Stoyanova Head of the Department in the same Directorate, and Diana Fileva Chief Legal Consult at the Directorate of Administrative and Legal Service. Representatives of NGOs and the civil sector were also present. On behalf of the importers, the bill and the reasons for it were presented by the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva. The first group of changes are related to the procedure for the creation of agricultural land use arrays. The Commission, which is in charge of the procedure, will draw up a draft allocation for each ground to propose to the participants in the procedure. Where no agreement is reached even between only part of the users, the Commission will carry out a professional allocation according to this project. The requirement that the agreement should cover not less than two thirds of the territory in which the arrays will be created is removed. By decision of the municipal council, the Polish roads falling within the arrays will be made available to the relevant users and they will have to provide access to the real-life property. The amounts to be paid by users for the property allocated to them for which no lease or lease contracts have been concluded and no declarations have been submitted (so-called "white spots') will be transferred to a transit budgetary account of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture to pay them to the respective owners. It is intended to remove the three-year limitation period for the payment of these amounts. The order to distribute the arrays will be issued by the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture and will be subject to appeal before the Regional Court at the location of the property. The second group of changes concerned the procedure for the marketing of agricultural land. There is no need to enter the agreements for the creation of landscaping properties and only the final documents to acquire ownership of the new properties will be subject to entry. After issuing the new property documents, all leases and leases will be terminated. The plan shall not include property subject to a pending legal dispute concerning the right to property burdened with property burdens or those subject to a estrangement procedure. Property with restrictions on use will be included in the plan for use with the consent of the owners. The latter group changes to the procedure for renting and renting of pastures, meria and meadows from the state and municipal land fund of owners or users of livestock holdings with pasture farm animals. The municipal council will decide the pastures, meres and meadows for general and individual use, which will be distributed among the entitled persons. A committee appointed by the mayor will determine the area necessary for each candidate and will distribute the properties according to the number and type of registered animals and depending on the pastures, meria and meadows owned or used on a legal basis. In the event of a shortage of areas in the respective land, the Commission will carry out an additional distribution in a neighbouring land of the municipality. In the event of a shortage of pastures, meria and meadows from the municipal land fund, at the request of the municipal commission to the Minister of Agriculture and Food, lands from the state land fund with a way of lasting use will be available - pastures, merri and meadows, in the amount needed for each candidate. The allocation will be carried out by a commission appointed by the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture at the location of the properties. The committees will draw up a report on the final distribution of the property, which will be subject to appeal before the district court. The lease or lease contracts will be concluded for a minimum of 5 business years, after payment of the rental or lease price and the cost of preparing their valuation by an independent valuer. The rest, after the distribution of free pastures, measures and meadows from the municipal and state land fund, will be rented out or rented out by auction in two stages. The first will be allowed to participate only owners of pasture farm animals and only then, in the case of still free properties, of persons who undertake to maintain them in good agricultural and environmental condition. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food supports the bill. Opinions were received from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, from the National Union of Cattlemen in Bulgaria and from the National Association of Farmers with specific remarks. In the subsequent discussion, it was noted that some of the proposed provisions should be further considered and refined, for example, to provide for a period within which municipalities will transfer to a transit budget account in the Regional Directorate of.............................. the funds for the use of so-called white spots..................................................................................................... Consider whether it is justified to assess the measure, pasture and meadows by an independent valuer and whether it is less appropriate to do so according to the average annual rent payment for the land concerned, as is the regime in respect of white spots. There was a proposal to preserve the possibility of distribution of merri, pastures and meadows in neighboring areas of the land. It was also noted that it was necessary to synchronise the new provisions regarding the terms of the lease contracts with those of the Agricultural Landing Act. There were also comments regarding the possibility that the Polish roads falling within the use arrays could be made available to the users concerned. In general, the MPs from all parliamentary groups agreed that the bill should be supported and committed between first and second readings to make the necessary proposals to refine the texts commented. The representatives of the branch organizations also supported the bill and expressed their willingness to present their specific proposals to the MPs in writing. Following the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods unanimously with 20 votes for the European Parliament, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly that the Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Ownership and Use of Agricultural Land, No 554-01-2, submitted by Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs on 14 January 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u116	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karayancheva. This was the report by the leading Committee on Agriculture and Food. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government and the Committee on Legal Affairs have not provided any reports. On behalf of the importers, Mr. Zhelev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, the reasons of the importers of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land are as follows. The main objective of the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land is to create a better legal basis on the rental and lease of pastures, merias and meadows by the state and municipal land fund of owners or users of grassland farms, as well as on the procedures for the conclusion of agreements for the establishment of agricultural land use arrays and the marketing of agricultural land on property. By Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land, promulgated in the State Gazette, No. 38 from 7 May 2014, amendments and additions have been made concerning the terms and conditions for renting or renting of pastures and meadows from state and municipal land funds without auction or competition, owners or users of livestock establishments with pasture farming animals registered in the animal identification system and registration of the establishments of the BAC, in proportion to the number and type of registered animals at market price determined by an independent valuer. It is regulated that only pastures and meadows of state and municipal land funds, which remain free after their distribution to pasture owners, can be awarded by auction and to persons who do not own pastures, but undertake to maintain these lands in good agricultural and environmental condition. The above procedure has not yet found practical application since the working group entrusted with the preparation of a Draft for amendment and supplement of the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land, when discussing the texts has identified problems and ambiguities related to its implementation. In this regard, the conditions and arrangements for the award of pastures and meadows without auction have to be adjusted through new amendments and additions to the law, therefore, with the new draft LID of the Law on Agricultural Land in art. 37 substantial amendments and additions to the procedure for the use of pastures, meres and meadows from the state and municipal land funds are provided. Taking into account that pastures, mermaids and meadows are land of special status intended primarily for grazing and mowing in order to be attributed primarily to pasture-growing farmers, the proposed bill aims to specify and supplement the procedure for the provision of these land without tender in order to facilitate its practical application. In addition to pastures and meadows, the measures, which are mainly land from the municipal land fund and which are primarily intended for pasture livestock, will thus increase the area of land to be allocated to livestock farmers without a tender procedure. In view of the fact that, with the amendment and the Appendix to the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land, the compulsory tender procedure falls away for persons growing registered pasture animals in order not to consider the granting of pastures and meadows without tender State aid, the only option is to carry out it at market prices determined by an independent valuer under the Act on independent valuers. Due to the limited state and municipal budget, as well as the fact that it could not be predicted which properties would be rented in advance, and the amount necessary to pay the costs of preparing the market estimates by an independent valuer, the bill provides that the properties subject to the distribution are to be declared with prices reflecting the average annual payment rents for the land or for the municipality, and after the approval of the prepared allocation protocol, the preparation of a market valuation by an independent valuer will be awarded. The costs of its preparation will be paid by the persons who rent the property before the lease or lease contracts are concluded, together with the lease or rent contribution for the first year. In addition, the new provisions of the law on the allocation of pastures and meadows for use indicate that they are allocated in proportion to the number and type of registered pasture animals, but only the maximum area to be provided to persons using less than one acres of pastures and meadows for the feeding of 0,15 livestock units, not more than 20 decares for the feeding of one animal unit. The question remains as to how many acres can be provided to persons who use more than 1 decares of pastures and meadows to feed 0,15 animal units. In order to introduce a single fair criterion in the distribution of the bill, it is envisaged that all eligible persons should be allocated pastures, meres and meadows, according to the number and type of registered pastures and agricultural animals, but not more than 10 decares per animal unit in eligible areas and up to 20 decares per animal unit in the non-assisted areas by subtracting the areas owned or used by them on the legal basis of pastures, meres and meadows. Given that it is regulated in law to entrust owners or users of registered animal sites, pastures or meadows in the area concerned or neighbouring them, due to the wide territorial scope, the rules on the distribution of such areas could not be defined. Therefore, it is regulated in the bill that pastures, meres and meadows are allocated to the rightful ones in the land where their establishment is registered in order to satisfy the needs of local livestock farmers. In case of land shortages, additional land distribution shall be carried out in a neighbouring land of the municipality or of a neighbouring area in the presence of free areas. Given that the municipalities have many times greater resources from pastures, merias and meadows than the same from the State Land Fund, the bill provides for an initial commission appointed by the mayor of the municipality concerned to distribute to the rightful pastures, meres and meadows in the municipal land fund in the respective or neighbouring lands of the municipality, respectively. The land of the State Land Fund with a way of lasting use, pastures, meria and meadows will be provided for the distribution of the area necessary for each candidate in the respective or neighbouring lands on application of the rightful person or request from the municipal commission to the Minister of Agriculture and Food, or an authorised person for the provision of pastures, meres and meadows by the State Land Fund. The distribution of these areas will be carried out by a committee appointed by the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture at the location of the properties. The bill provides that only owners of registered pastures and agricultural animals and thus rent additional areas such as the possibility does not exist in the current legal provisions can participate in the bill after the distribution of areas remaining free pastures, meres and meadows of the state and municipal land fund. Only in cases where pastures, meres and meadows from the state and municipal land fund have remained unhired with the distribution and auction, they may be auctioned to persons who undertake to maintain them in good agricultural and environmental condition. Amendments and additions to the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land related to the procedure for the establishment of arrays for the use of agricultural land under art. 37 of the Law. The competence of the commission, which directs the procedure for creating arrays of use, is an obligation to determine each land area, territory under the arrays under the order of § 2g of the Additional Provisions, according to data from the declarations and applications submitted under art. 37b, as well as prepare a draft allocation to propose to the participants in the procedure. The proposed amendment will contribute to the lawful definition of both the territory in which the arrays will be created and the boundaries of the individual arrays. It will help the work of the participants in the agreement, as it will guide them to accommodate themselves in arrays that have a dominant legal basis. The requirement to cover not less than two thirds of the territory in which the arrays will be created, which requires, on the one hand, makes it difficult for the participants to conclude the agreement and, on the other hand, for the Commission to assess whether the area of two thirds in the submitted agreement has been correctly determined in order to determine the remaining one third and to distribute the arrays among the participants not included in the agreement. The aim is to enable the participants in the agreement to fairer distribution of the arrays between them with a view to the legal basis of each of them. It is envisaged when no agreement is reached between users and some of them under the conditions laid down in law, namely para. 1 and 2, the Commission shall distribute the arrays of use according to the project proposed to the participants at the beginning of the procedure. Users are proposed to pay the amount specified in the order under art. 37c, para. 4 amount for the distribution of the used properties white stains on a transit budget account in the respective Regional Directorate of Agriculture to pay them to the owners of these properties instead of a bank account for foreign funds of the municipality. In the past practice, some of the municipalities prevented the payment of paid amounts to property owners of white spots, which is why numerous complaints of citizens complaining about the unjustified practice introduced in the municipalities to require of the property owners under art. 37c, para. 2 and 3 of the Law documents for ownership and actual sketches of these properties, authorized by all owners for heirs and other documents in the payment of their due amounts, submitted according to the order of art. 37c, para. 7 of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u118	Dear Mr. Zhelev, would you like to continue your speech from the time of the group?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u119	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u120	I'm opening the debate. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u121	Accurate application requires those who have received the order of art. 37, para. 7 of the Law amounts to be paid to each of the properties to the entitled persons on the basis of the order of the director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture. 37, para. 4. In this regard, it is sufficient for individuals to be legitimized as owners of these properties, i.e. white spots. In this regard, a letter was sent to the Minister of Agriculture and Food by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, stating the need to draw up rules for the payment of the municipalities of the amounts received for the use of agricultural properties under art. 37c, para. 3, p. 2. Even after the instructions issued for unification of the rules for the payment of the municipalities amounts for the use of the properties received under art. 37, approved by the Ombudsman and by the Executive Director of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, the problems with the payment of the municipalities for paid sums to owners of properties white spots continue. A three-month period shall be provided for the issue of the order under art. 37c, para 4, with which the property users should pay for their use. The current law provides that the properties of white spots should be paid by the users 20 days before the issue of the order under art. 37c, para. 4 and 30 days before her announcement. Thus, the designated requirement of the law raises numerous complaints by users, which rightly point out that the amount to be paid within the legal period is not set out in the administrative act. The proposed three-month period allows users to pay the amounts due from the subsidies they receive. It should be borne in mind that, at the beginning of the business year, the advantage of the financial resources available to farmers is aimed at preparing the areas, which is why they are in difficulty to pay that amount as well. In this way the payment will be made after the order has been announced under art. 37c, para. 4 in which both property users and the amounts due for their use and property owners under art. 37, para. 3, p. 2, as the numbers of these properties and order of payment for each, will be reflected for each property. There is an obligation of the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture to refer to the mayor of the municipality concerned for the sanctioning under art. 34, para. 6 to users who have not paid the amounts for the distribution of used properties It is intended to drop the defined in art. 37 in a three-year period for sending from municipalities the amounts paid to property users. Direct judicial review of the legality of the orders under art. 37c, an appeal before a regional court on the location of the property, instead of the previous one under the APC, which provides for an opportunity to challenge the administrative order of the act of the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture and Food and subsequent judicial review before the legal court at the location of the property or a dispute directly before the regional court. The current practice in challenging the administrative order is to file complaints against the orders to the Minister who returns the file to the relevant Regional Directorate of Agriculture and the Commission's competence is to examine the complaint and the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture to issue the order, which in this case may be appealed to the Regional Court. The time limit for the entry into force of the order is hereby extended. The establishment of an agreement between the owners, who are in practice repeating the content of the plans already carried out and approved by the Minister of Agriculture and Food for Weeding, is of exceptional complexity for notaries and, in particular, for the judges of the entries, because of which the lack of established practice retains the registration of the relevant agreements and thus hinders the completion of projects for weeding. By analogy with the preparation of plans for land separation, the procedure is amended for an easier and faster implementation as an administrative procedure and not as before as a regular transaction with real estate, eliminating the entry of the agreement, which was a problematic intermediate step. The amendments define more clearly the role and support of the state in the process of coma, which was defined in the Rules of Law Enforcement. Due to the long deadlines for the implementation of the lease procedure, it was found that it was difficult to plan the rent relations of the owners with the tenants in relation to the participating properties. This leads to a problem in defining the rules of use after approval of coma projects. In this respect, it is proposed to terminate all leases and leases after issuing the new ownership documents. The proposed texts will stimulate more massive conduct of voluntary and coma procedures in the country. The proposed draft act of the Council of Ministers will not have a direct or indirect impact on the state budget, which is why there is no need to draw up a financial justification. The project is not related to the implementation of European Union acts and therefore no correlation table has been applied with European law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Zhelev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u123	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u124	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, there are speeches under this law, but since there are 2 minutes left, I cannot unfold my speech within this time, which is why I propose that we stop for today and continue the debate tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-21.u125	Mrs. Ahmedova, explicitly several times the leading sitting Mr. Glauchev asked whether there were statements very clearly. I was in the Chamber, you didn't say anything like that. Debates closed, vote pending. [[Radio.]] There are other people who want to make speeches, are there? Debates closed, we're going to vote. I put to the first vote the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. Voting mode. Vote 84 MPs: 81 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Since the time is 2:00 p.m., plenary time is up, I am closing the plenary session. Tomorrow's first item will be the Second Voting of the Bill on the Court of Auditors. [[PHONE RINGING]]
