ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. I offer to your attention Project of the National Assembly Work Programme for the period from 23 to 25 September 2015: "1." First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Chairman and four members of the Fiscal Council, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. The Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. First vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 4. First vote on the Bill amending the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. Importers suppose Polina Karastoyanova and a group of MPs. 5. Second vote on the Preschool and School Education Bill. Importers - Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs - continuation. 6. Second vote on the Military Intelligence Bill. Importers svetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. 7. Second vote on the Bill of State Agency Intelligence. Importers svetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. 8. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 9. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Information Access Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 10. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Air Cleanliness. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 11. Parliamentary control provided for its usual time and time according to our Rules. Please vote. Vote 202 MPs: for 176, Against 9, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules have received two proposals. The first is Mr. Chetin Kazak, who proposes to include in our weekly program a bill for amendment and supplement of the Election Code, No 554-01-102, submitted by Georgi Kadiev. This proposal was made on the previous Wednesday and rejected by a vote in plenary. It is contrary to art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules, which require a certain time between a rejected proposal in plenary so that it can be made according to the following time. It's not admissible, I won't put it to the vote. The second proposal in the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure is of Mrs. Svetla Bachvarova, who proposes to include the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Agricultural Landing Act for First Voting. Importers - Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. Mrs. Bachvarova, you're welcome to present your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, on the basis of art. 50, para. 3 We propose in the Program of the National Assembly for the period 23 "The 25th will be included in the examination of the Landing Act. There are two reasons for this proposal. First, this Law was established in 1996 in order to solve long-term problems with the management of agricultural land and, at the same time, to protect owners when concluding lease contracts. In any case, the operation of the Law and the absence of any change after 1996 showed a number of problems that need to be resolved with a change in the Law, especially after 2007, when the land became an exceptional value in terms of EU assistance has also created prerequisites for abuse. In practice, the owners of agricultural land are not protected in the conclusion of these contracts. This is the second motive: problems after 2007 in the conclusion of lease and property protection contracts as constitutional law. A few days ago, the Ministry of Agriculture came up with information that one-third of the farmers, 23 000, have problems with overlaps of the area, which is due to problems in the conclusion of long-term contracts. We propose this Bill to be reviewed within this week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u3	Colleagues, we are voting on Mrs. Bachvarova's proposal to include this Bill in our weekly programme. They voted 195 MPs: 66, against 76, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. Several messages: First, regarding bills and draft decisions for the period from 16 to 18 September 2015. A bill to supplement the Road Traffic Act. Importers "Nastimir Ananiev and Antony Trenchev." The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. A bill to supplement the Civil Service Act. Importer "Велизар Еnchev." The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Energy Commission. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education. Importers. "Roumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Committee on Education and Science is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importers suppose Lyubomir Vladimirov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It has also been allocated to the Health Committee. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the establishment of financial instrument management funds under the operational programmes of the European Union for the period 2014-2020 between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Bill for adoption of a declaration under art. 287, para. 1 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea on the Recognition of the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Law of the Sea. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Report of the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence-related Products and Dual-Use Products in 2014. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. Project for a decision to award state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. On the basis of art. 133, a. 3 of the Public Finance Act in the National Assembly received a Report on the report on the extent of implementation of the approved policies and programmes of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the first half of 2015, together with its annexes. The report is made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Foreign Policy and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Point one of our program this week: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. I recall the Rules of Procedure of the Decision in the part that refers to the first vote on the bill. "According to Art. 3 of the Rules on the procedure for the discussion and adoption of the Draft Law for amendment and supplement to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria.The bill is dealt with in the first vote after the National Assembly has heard the Commission report and the reasons of the importers within 20 minutes. (2) In the first vote, the bill shall be discussed and voted in general and in full. Members of the National Assembly shall speak on the main provisions of the Bill. The discussion shall be conducted under the conditions and under the procedure for discussing bills in the first vote and in accordance with art. 55 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, and for the smallest of the parliamentary groups the time may not be less than 15 minutes, but for the largest of them 45 minutes. (3) The bill shall be adopted in the first vote if three quarters of all Members of the National Assembly have voted for it. (4) If the bill receives less than three quarters but not less than two thirds of the votes of all Members of the National Assembly, it shall be placed for a new examination not earlier than two months and not later than five months. In the new examination, the bill shall be adopted if it has been voted on by no less than two thirds of all Members of the National Assembly. Art. 4. (1) Members of the National Assembly may make written proposals for amendment and addition to the bill adopted in the first vote within the time limits of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The period may not be less than seven days. No proposals are considered contrary to the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. The following rules of this decision represent the work of the Commission between first and second votes and so on, which are beyond our specific task today. A report of the Temporary Commission for the discussion of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is in place. Mr. Lazarov, we expect you to present the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u4	Dear Madam President, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, dear guests! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554 01 144 of 24 July 2015, submitted by Tsetska Tsacheva and a group of MPs At a meeting held on 2 September 2015, the Temporary Committee for the Discussion of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, established by a decision of the National Assembly of 28 May 2015, as amended by a decision of the National Assembly of 30 July 2015, acting as a leading committee, according to art. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, discussed the bill prior to its presentation for the first vote in plenary. The bill for amendment and supplement of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, inc. No 554-01-144 of 24 July 2015, submitted by Tsetska Tsacheva and a group of MPs, aims to conduct structural and organisational reform of the judiciary in accordance with international standards as a prerequisite for overcoming the systemic deficits in Bulgarian constitutional democracy. The bill consists of 6 paragraphs and the changes are in Chapter 6 of the Law and Chapter 8 of the Constitutional Court. The proposals relate mainly to: 1. A change in the structure and organisation of the Supreme Judicial Council, in particular: (a) Division of the Supreme Judicial Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Colleges; the College of Judges shall consist of 13 members and shall include the Presidents of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Administrative Court, 6 members elected by the General Assembly of Judges, and 5 members elected by the National Assembly; the Prosecutors' College shall have 12 members and shall include the Chief Prosecutor, 4 members elected by the General Assembly of Prosecutors, one member elected by the General Assembly of Investigators, and 6 members elected by the National Assembly (Art. 130a, para. 1-3); (b) designation by law of the order for nomination and the procedure for election of the members of the colleges (Art. 130a, para. 4); (c) implementation by the Colleges of Chambers and Organizational Functions, disciplinary responsibility, as well as giving opinions on bills, within the scope of the competence assigned; on matters common to the entire judiciary, decisions shall be taken by the Supreme Judicial Council in plenary (Art. 129, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. 130a, para. Art. 5 and 6, Art. 133); (d) the meetings of the plenary shall be chaired by the Minister of Justice without the right to vote; in the absence of the Minister of Justice, the meetings of the plenary shall be chaired by the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation; the College of Justice shall be chaired by the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation; and the Prosecutor's College shall be chaired by the Prosecutor General (Art.130b); (e) withdrawal of the power of the Minister of Justice to manage the property of the judiciary and award of the Supreme Judicial Council to manage the real estate of the judiciary (Art. 130a, para. 6, p. Art. 6, Art. 130c); 2. Improving the effectiveness of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council by establishing mechanisms to prevent conflict of interest and improper external influence in the judicial authorities. Extending the powers of the Inspectorate to carry out checks for conflicts of interest of judges, prosecutors and investigators, to verify the completeness and correctness of property declarations, to carry out checks to establish events undermining the prestige of the judiciary, as well as those relating to violation of the independence of judges, prosecutors and investigators (Art. 132a, para. 6); 3. Inclusion of the Supreme Council of Laws in the circle of bodies which may refer to the Constitutional Court when the law violates the rights and freedoms of citizens (Art. 150, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1. During the discussion spoke the MPs Chavdar Georgiev, Cetin Kazak, Emil Dimitrov, Danail Kirilov, Yavor Haytov, Lachezar Nikiforov, Atanas Atanasov, Dimitar Delchev and Dimitar Lazarov. People's Representative Chavdar Georgiev said that the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria is not going to support the Bill and set out the view that the proposed structural reform of the Supreme Judicial Council will contribute nothing to the improvement of the work of the judiciary bodies, and that in the division of the Supreme Judicial Council there is a risk of making valid decisions for the staff appointments with a much less majority than for a common plenary staff of 25 people. People's representative Chetin Kazak presented the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms to support the proposed amendments to the Constitution and expressed the basic reserves of the parliamentary group on the quota allocation in the Prosecutor's College, which will form in the new Supreme Judicial Council, namely the intended parities between representatives of the political and professional quota in the prosecution and the investigation. People's representative Emil Dimitrov expressed the strong support of the Patriotic Front for changing the judiciary. He said the parliamentary group supports the bill and expressed confidence that the political forces in the National Assembly with the adoption of the changes will take the necessary step to improve the system and will assist the rapid administration of justice, the independence of the judiciary and the opportunity for citizens to receive better justice. People's representative Danail Kirilov presented the position of the parliamentary group of political party "GERB" to support the bill. He clarified that this was a shortened version which did not contain any of the initial proposals which failed to receive broad support from the parliamentary groups and expressed the opinion of the parliamentary group to support the principles set out in the original version. People's representative Yavor Haytov expressed his support for the draft of the Parliamentary Group "Bulgarian Democratic Center" and expressed the opinion that there should be changes and they should not be postponed anymore, and the bill gives the beginning of judicial reform. National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov expressed the position of the ABB Parliamentary Group for principle support for reforming the judiciary, but also non-sharing of the approach with which it is conducted. He shared concern that the draft was discussed without a ruling of the Constitutional Court, as well as that the ABB Parliamentary Group retains its reservations and special positions regarding the division of the Supreme Judicial Council to independent colleagues People's representative Atanas Atanasov stated the position of the Parliamentary Group "Reformator Block" and expressed his opinion that the judiciary needs much more radical reform. He also outlined the reasons why the Reforming Block Parliamentary Group should support the Draft Law in the first place, the main proposal to divide the Supreme Judicial Council into two colleges, a first and very important step for judicial reform, so that the change in the Judicial Law can begin, and secondly, the Bill, receiving 180 votes in plenary, will greatly accelerate the overall process of legislative change. People's representative Dimitar Delchev said the Reformation bloc is for radical judicial reform. He defined the proposals in the bill as insufficient and expressed the position that the texts tabled are a basis on which, between first and second readings, additions can be made. The President of the Commission Dimitar Lazarov reminded that the Constitution allows the initiative to change the Constitution to be with one quarter of the votes and the adoption to be with three fourths or two thirds of the votes of 180 or 160. It is not a coincidence that the time limit is set no earlier than one month and no later than three months, respectively in the case of 160 votes, the time limit becomes longer. We walked this time in the first Bill when we introduced the Draft Amendment to the Constitution. We then had more than 60 MPs as importers, but we did not have the required constitutional majority to adopt the bill. However, we have walked the way of the talks, as provided for in the Constitution. It is no coincidence that these long periods of talks are given between the different parliamentary groups in order to reach agreement on some of the texts that we have achieved. The result is now available.. this Bill has been tabled by 180 votes. Practically means that for each text after the first reading we need to collect a minimum of 160 votes. They're not that many anymore. If we don't get them together, there will be no amendment to the Constitution, which concerns the division of the Supreme Judicial Council into two colleges to deal with the personnel appointment. As a result of the discussion held, the Temporary Committee for the Discussion of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, with 10 votes for the Constitution, with 2 votes against the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, proposed to the National Assembly to examine and adopt a Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554 01-144, submitted by Tsetska Tsacheva and a group of MPs on 24 July 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. For an opinion on behalf of the importers there is the word of the national representative Tsetska Tsacheva, Chairman of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the 180 MPs who have signed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, allow me to introduce you to the reasons I am convinced that they are very well acquainted not only by all MPs, but also by all those who are concerned with this important problem. In a few words, I would like to recall how it came to the idea of introducing a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Constitution. In the 40th National Assembly with a huge majority was approved the updated strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary adopted by the Council of Ministers with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. In this Strategy specific principles were defined which, of course, could not have their regulatory clear statement without any changes in the relevant laws concerning the settlement of this matter. Following the vote of the Strategy, two drafts were submitted to the National Assembly by various parliamentary groups to amend and supplement the Law on the Judiciary, both of which envisaged the division of the Supreme Judicial Council into two colleges, as we voted in the updated strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary. This is where the arguments for the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria started and against this separation and whether it was carried out only through a law will not contradict the existing Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. In order not to waste time in law-making and legislative process, which would risk at a later time certain norms being declared unconstitutional, we came to the idea that it is imperative to carry out, to propose changes to the National Assembly in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, with all the agreement on the possibilities that are eligible by the existing Constitution for changes by the ordinary National Assembly. From here comes part of the misunderstanding in the report of the Temporary Commission. From the speeches of certain colleagues, I heard that they were for more radical reforms. I would like to state clearly: the submitted bill is in line with the decisions already given to the Constitutional Court, which show the form of a state structure in the part concerning the judiciary, as only this part is subject to the Law. What is the aim of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Constitution? Above all, structural and organisational reform of the judiciary, which, however, is not an objective but is necessary in order to establish and maintain the rule of law, guarantee both for the restored sense of justice by each of our citizens, and a condition for business development, each of our own or foreign investor is excited by how fast, how effective, how fair, impartial, independent the judiciary is. I must remind you that the constitutional reform of the judiciary after the adoption of the Constitution has been made by three other ordinary folk meetings. However, it turned out that the changes made in the structure and organisation of the judiciary did not achieve a complete effect so that the independence of the court was guaranteed and the prosecution was effective and accountable to the public. The importers believe that in order to ensure the independence of judges and to prevent external influence, the new institutional structure of the Supreme Judicial Council should be adopted so that separate colleges for judges, on the one hand, and prosecutors and investigators, on the other. Also, in order to ensure the independence of judges, members of the Supreme Judicial Council representing prosecutors and investigators must not be allowed to participate in the resolution of their personnel matters and vice versa. I would just like to point out that the state of the judiciary and the work of the Supreme Judicial Council are also subject to analysis in the reports under the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism. In 2014, it was noted that the Supreme Judicial Council was not widely perceived as an autonomous and independent body capable of effectively defending the independence of the judiciary against the executive and legislative powers. The latest Monitoring Report of January this year is being reported as a positive development of the political will applied for judicial reform through the adoption by the government and parliament of the updated strategy for continuing judicial reform. What specific changes do the proposed changes consist of? The proposed change in the structure and organisation of the Supreme Judicial Council is in relation to the composition, powers, meetings, management and decision-making. In order to ensure the independence of the College of Judges in the exercise of its main chambers and disciplinary powers, it is proposed to consist of 13 members, including the Presidents of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Administrative Court, six members elected by the General Assembly of Judges and five members elected by the National Assembly. I recall, according to the Constitution, the quota of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council elected by the National Assembly is 11 people. In order to ensure greater transparency and accountability for the exercise of the powers of the Prosecutor's Office, it is envisaged that the Prosecution College should have 12 members and include the Prosecutor General, four members elected by the General Assembly of Prosecutors, one member elected by the General Assembly of Investigators, and six members elected by the National Assembly. Honourable Members, the disputes, the arguments of the various parliamentary groups, and the differences in order to achieve such a difficult agreement to submit with 180 signatures of this Bill is precisely about how to distribute the quota... these 11 members, whom the National Assembly elects in the respective colleges. There are arguments for and against the opinion that they should be five to the College of Justice, six to the Prosecutor's Office and that of the investigators, or vice versa, each of their groups and individual MPs sufficiently argue to defend their position. For this reason, we importers also signed a request to the Constitutional Court in the hopes of giving us an indication of the unconstitutional paradigm that occurs in the project regarding the distribution of the members of the prosecutors' and investigators' college, as for the Prosecutor General, four prosecutors elected by the General Assembly, one investigator, six members, broadcast by the National Assembly, receive the money in the quota of prosecutors and investigators. You are aware that the Constitutional Court ruled that this request is inadmissible, which is why the debate continues today at first reading I expect to hear arguments in support of this opinion. Before I pass the power, a very important moment, personally for me, perhaps this is the most important and the core of the amendment that we propose is the election of members of the Supreme Judicial Council from the judiciary quota, and, accordingly, to prosecutors and investigators, to take place directly from their general meetings on the principle: a magistrate, not, as has been so far, through representatives who participated in this vote. In terms of powers. It is vitiated that each of the colleges performs independently, first, the personnel and organizational functions in the judiciary, in the judge's college, respectively, in the prosecutor's office and in the investigators' office. Secondly, he has a disciplinary responsibility. Thirdly, it gives opinions on draft laws within the scope of the competence assigned, each of which takes an independent and final decision on matters of its competence. At the same time, it is intended that the Supreme Judicial Council in plenary, that is to say, all members of the Supreme Judicial Council, should meet in general for the entire judiciary. These are issues related to the adoption of decisions on the draft budget of the system, the organisation of the qualification of judges, prosecutors and investigators, common organisational issues of the judicial authorities, the exercise of representative functions of the system vis-à-vis other state authorities and functions, the adoption of annual reports of the individual units of the system. A new power, which is envisaged for the first time by this Bill, is for the plenary to decide on the management of the real estate of the judiciary, thus aiming to create enhanced institutional and organisational guarantees for the independence of the judiciary. So far, this has been the authority of the Minister of Justice. The meetings of the plenary shall be chaired by the Minister of Justice without the right to vote. In his absence, he will chair the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation. He shall also hold the meetings of the College of Judges, respectively the Prosecutor General shall hold the meetings of the College of Prosecutors and Investigators. We propose the cancellation of art. 131 of the Constitution, according to which the decisions of the Supreme Judicial Council are adopted by secret ballot, the proposal in our Draft is the decision-making procedure to be settled at the legal level. He probably belongs in the Justice Act. A new point is the increased powers of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council, with the aim of ensuring accountability and greater control over members of the judiciary. It is envisaged to extend its functions, introduce new powers of the Inspectorate to carry out checks for conflicts of interest of judges, prosecutors and investigators; to verify the completeness and correctness of property declarations; to carry out checks to establish events undermining the prestige of the judiciary. I am convinced that all this will be in the direction of a more transparent, more efficient judicial system. I hope this will lead to an increase in public confidence in the judiciary and the creation of conviction among citizens that everyone is equal before the law and no one is isolated from the mechanisms of accountability and civil control. The latest proposal we have made as importers is on extending citizens' access to the Constitutional Court and strengthening mutual control and deterrent among the authorities. As an additional entity for the first time, we foresee that the Constitutional Court can be referred to when the fundamental rights of citizens are affected by law and such an opportunity is proposed to have the Supreme Council of Law. Why the High Council of Law? It is our opinion that repeated cases can be summarised precisely in this way, thereby creating an opportunity for indirect constitutional complaint by citizens, in so far as the lawyering body, through its representative body, is the Supreme Council of Law, is able to select these most frequently repeated cases in practice in which rights and freedoms are violated and thus the Supreme Council of Justice of the Prosecutor's Office has the opportunity to refer to the Constitutional Court. I hope that after the debates we will have now, the qualified majority needed to amend the Constitution will be convinced of the necessity and timing of these changes. The amendment to the Constitution, my fellow Members, is not an end in itself. This is part of the common package of necessary amendments to the laws concerning the judiciary so that we can achieve something so simple that all of us as citizens expect a fair justice system. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Before I opened the debates, the word asked the Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov. Here you are, Minister Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the Parliament, honourable representatives of the judiciary and the diplomatic corps! Ms. Tsacheva has presented the proposed amendments in great detail, so I will not dwell on them. Let me comment on some other important issues that are often posed. First of all, let's note an interesting circumstance. The history of Chapter Six of the Constitution, dedicated to justice, is interesting because it was last accepted and those involved in the work on it remember that the summer of 1991. The political time is beginning to run very quickly for the Grand National Assembly and, in fact, the texts, in the opinion of many of the participants, have been adopted without much to consider and meaningful. This is probably part of the reason why the understanding of the exact structure of the Bulgarian judiciary and the role of justice in our young democracy will pass as a red thread in the history of this first generation and political and biological. There have been attempts to correct this certain incompleteness of these texts with amendments, and there have been attempts with the notoriety of Decision 3 of 2003 to almost taboo the attempts to reform this chapter and to stop them. All the time there are calls, albeit from the periphery of political life to convene the Grand National Assembly, which radically, especially in this part, to rearrange things. From this point of view, there is nothing strange that this issue is again emerging in front of the National Assembly today. I would like to believe that this time, indeed, this will be considered a national responsibility. Despite disputes, despite the progress of one step backwards and two forwards, a consensus is expected, which is as close as possible to understanding these changes as a national project. They cannot, of course, be neither of a certain majority nor of a certain government nor of a separate minister. This can only be a change made by the entire National Assembly. In this sense, I would like to thank all the parliamentary forces that will support, but also with their criticism will contribute to this ultimately getting to a maximum of a good bill. Today, in this year, in which 800 years of Magna Carta are celebrated, with which, ultimately, in one of the earliest stages of the development of European law, the question of judicial independence has been raised before us again. I think that Parliament has the opportunity, based on the experience that has accumulated during the 25-year period, an experience that is not only positive, but is also negative after scandals and doubts about the independence of the judiciary, to place the judiciary and the independence of the court where it belongs in the head of the corner as the main stone of the state building. This is the main meaning of the changes being proposed. There are, of course, questions as to how this will help the individual citizen. Here we have to say very firmly that the independence of the court is not just some abstraction, another European value in which we periodically swear without it having much importance in life. The independence of the court is an absolute issue for every citizen who steps on the doors of the courtroom. Every citizen has the right and we owe him as a state to ensure that he, standing before the formation of justice, will not have any doubts about the fact that the formation will comply with other factors than the Law, the facts and its free internal conviction. If the jury is thinking about its career, if the jury is somehow put under administrative pressure, if it is put in conditions of work that are impossible, if there are economic temptations, all this could cloud the judicial independence and the right to justice and to a fair trial of every Bulgarian citizen. With the proposed amendments to the Constitution, we lay the basis for a structural reform of the judiciary, but they do not run out of it. What, eventually, I hope, will be adopted as amendments to the Constitution, then must be further developed with the amendments to the Law on the Judiciary. With this we will indeed achieve the first goal and this is a responsible rule of the judiciary, good governance and responsible leadership in it. It is clear to everyone that if the Supreme Judicial Council is a body with a much clearer profile, there is much more clarity in it who is responsible for and to whom it is responsible for its decisions, there is much greater transparency, this will lead to a much better work of this body, which ultimately depends on the most important decisions for the management and administration of the system. The shortest way to explain what these changes mean is this proverb, an expression that we've learned all very well: the footage solves everything. The Supreme Judicial Council is the judicial authority. If the Supreme Judicial Council makes good selection, positive selection of judges, prosecutors and investigators who work in it, if it provides good working conditions and good career motivation, if it punishes those who have been guilty, with the necessary determination, if it cares about maintaining a very high level of competence of magistrates, all this will have an absolutely direct impact on the quality of justice and, of course, on the speed of its administration. From this point of view, there should be no doubt in the relationship between the issue of the model, the management model and the question of the quality that justice provides to every citizen who addresses it. It is very important to stress here that when we talk about the systemic problems in the structure of judicial management and, in particular, about the Supreme Judicial Council, we do not respond to a certain composition of the Supreme Judicial Council. Each of the Chambers and each of the members of the Supreme Judicial Councils, which have changed over these 25 years, I am sure and know, have made their attempts to overcome the problems posed in the structure. It is also done by colleagues in the current Council and they deserve our admiration for it. But when the structure is wrong, it limits to a large extent the ability of personnel to overcome problems. From this point of view, these changes do not come as some negative assessment of the work of this Chamber of the Supreme Judicial Council. We'd rather help them with the good trends in their work. Let me also stress that, of course, there is a dispute over the proposed allocation of quotas between representatives of parliament between the two colleges. And this argument is important. Important arguments are being raised. The place for their consideration is between the two readings. In this sense, my appeal to fellow Members who raise them is to support the proposed changes at first reading, precisely so that we can discuss their objections between the two readings. The possible solutions for balancing one or the other not so positive effects of one proposal or another are different and there are different proposals that could be discussed between the two readings. An absolute commitment to both my and the majority, has now become clear at the Presidency Council for this, is to hold this discussion with the necessary seriousness. I would also like to emphasise the extreme importance of the new powers attributed to the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council. After all, the huge problem facing Bulgarian justice and from the perspective of the Bulgarian citizens' trust in it, and from the point of view of the trust of our international partners, but to forget about it from the point of view of the dignified and respectful treatment of the Bulgarian magistrates, is the question of the doubts in the integrity of some in the judiciary. Here I would like to make it very clear that we want to clear this issue not only to our citizens, of course not only in the dialogue with our partners in the European Union, but also the Bulgarian magistrate. Because the vast majority of Bulgarian magistrates are honest civil servants, with whom our society could and should be proud. We owe it all to them to clear the good name of justice. But this cleansing depends on two things.. depends on the Supreme Judicial Council, which is ready to take the responsibility to separate the hay from the chaff and the presence of a particular toolbox that will happen. By the explicit powers conferred on the Inspectorate to carry out checks on the integrity of magistrates when such doubts are present, this clear instrument is first created. It must be further developed in the Law on the Judiciary. After all, it is with these proposals that we will be able to answer the question of whether there is corruption, whether there are corruption acts in the judiciary and who is their perpetrator, who is clean of such doubts and must be clean of them. In this sense, this also answers a very important question. I believe, and it must be stressed, that the division of the Supreme Judicial Council into two quotas will not only ensure our compliance with an international standard enshrined in the Judicial Reform Strategy. The standard and strategy, I recall, provide for decisions on the career of judges to be taken by a majority of judges elected by judges, as Mrs Tsacheva stressed. In the Law on the Judiciary, we will now foresee this choice to be made directly, by the rule a magistrate, not a vote, as has been so far, has been ad hoc. This standard is indeed a guarantee of the independence of the court. However, I believe that setting up the prosecutor's and investigator's college will also be very important, because for the first time, we will create a specialized format in which public decisions will be made on the work of the prosecution. In the forthcoming debate on the allocation of quotas, I will advocate the opinion, as so far, that the existence of a strong parliamentary quota in the College of State prosecution will, in fact, for the first time, answer the decades-old question in Bulgaria about the creation of a democratic accountability toolbox in the work of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigation. Yes, any instrument of democratic accountability can be plucked out and somehow perverted, but that does not mean that we have to give up the search for the right balance. There are different solutions to protect ourselves from such developments, we need to discuss them between the two readings. However, it is now really important to emphasise the importance of defining this quota for a gradual evolutionary finding of the right balance in democratic accountability in the work of the Prosecutor's Office. Let me refer to a few questions that are often put, and answer them a little in advance. First of all, is this the end of judicial reform? No way! As I have already pointed out, the amendments to the Constitution actually only open the door to the overall reorganization of the management model, which must be completed with the forthcoming amendments to the Law on the Judiciary. There are three draft laws on amending the Law on the Judiciary, there is a very lively professional discussion on them and I am confident that when the fate of the constitutional framework is ultimately resolved in Parliament, we will have a high degree of readiness, that is, we will have a ready-made bill which will have gone through an unprecedented broad discussion among magistrates and expert circles and will complete the programme laid down by the amendments to the Constitution as regards the management model. However, judicial reform is far from limited to this issue. At the same time, we are very advanced in working on a topic that has remained generally outside the perimeter of attention. It is about the legal education and the selection of the staff, not only in the judiciary, but in the legal professions at all. Some of the proposals are already in the Law of the Ministry of Justice, others are working very actively. Changes are to be made on the basis of the Prosecution's experience in the PPC in order to achieve further acceleration of production, a very wide perimeter changes are being worked on in the Penal Code. We expect at the beginning of October to be subject to public discussion the Code of Administrative Violations and Punishments, which will place the first stone of the possibility of serious decriminalisation of a large part of less significant misdeeds and we will actually be able to proceed to the so long expected division of crimes into heavy and light. In the bills submitted by colleagues from GERB and ABB and in this Law of the Ministry of Justice, there are extremely detailed texts for the introduction of e-Justice. There is a budget for this, so this extremely important line of judicial reform is coming up. The subject is raised and I hope that next year we will work very seriously with colleagues from the Supreme Judicial Council to reform the judicial map, that is, the geographical distribution of the human and institutional resources of the system and getting to a much more transparent and effective budget of the judiciary. This will also be a systematic effort, because it will allow for solving numerous problems related to the efficiency and financial support of the system. Another question, which is often raised, is the aim of this reform only to satisfy some recommendations from Brussels? Here I would like to say firmly that this is not true. This separation of the Supreme Judicial Council, this amplification of the Inspectorate and the creation of a specific mechanism for placing and solving problems and doubts related to the integrity of magistrates are topics raised by Bulgarian experts, by representatives of the judiciary long before there is monitoring of the European Commission. In this sense, with these changes we respond, first of all, to topics put by the Bulgarian society. Yes, with them, we respond to recommendations from the European Commission, which are simply an obvious and logical consequence of the state that is found inside and outside. We should not ignore the fact that with these changes we will take a very important step towards giving the country a perspective gradually. This will not be a one-time thing, coming out of the various forms of monitoring in the area of justice in which we find ourselves. We really owe this to our country, that part of our sovereignty, which is somewhat limited, to start recovering, but it depends on our own actions. It was much discussed whether the hidden purpose of these changes was the change of the Supreme Judicial Council. I hope today is no longer the case. In order to have the effect of these changes and the change of the Supreme Judicial Council, there must be an explicit text. There is no such proposal by any parliamentary power. No parliamentary force makes such an application. I personally have always argued that the Supreme Judicial Council should complete its mandate and I am glad that today, I think we can end the debate on this subject. I wish you success and again thank you very much for participating in this discussion and in this work.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u9	Thank you, dear Minister. Before we move on to debates, let me introduce you to my fellow Members about the allocation of time in relation to the implementation of art. 55, para. 1 and 2 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly: The Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB has 45 minutes, the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria has 26 minutes, the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has 25 minutes, the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation bloc has 20 minutes, the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front I'm opening the debate. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues! I propose today's debate on the Constitution to be broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Delchev. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. Please vote on the proposal made by the MP Dimitar Delchev for direct broadcast on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio of the Debates on the Draft. They voted 102 MPs: 53, against 3, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u12	I see there are colleagues who are still entering the room. However, we are talking here about the Constitution, which is the country's supreme law, and I hope that we will respond to the public interest and that the meeting is broadcast directly on television.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Delchev. Revoting procedure. They voted 114 MPs: 54, against 5, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. The debates are open. For a speech by the Parliamentary Group of GERB "Daniel Kirilov." Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! I will be extremely brief in view of the presentation that was made to the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution, a second draft law, in view of the opinion of the importer, expressed personally by the President of the National Assembly, and in view of all the details and details that the Minister of Justice discussed in his statement. I will allow myself to comment mainly on our will to support the proposed constitutional changes. Firstly, we are firmly behind the proposed bill. We believe that he deserves as broad political and legal support as possible in the current National Assembly. We believe that it is an extremely important step for the development of the Bulgarian judiciary and mainly for expressing our political will by supporting changes within the system. It expects these changes, I would say to a large extent not only perceive them, but require the continuation of the process of change. Together with these changes, we are also very prepared for amendments to the regulations laid down in the Constitutional Law on the Judiciary and in the procedural laws governing specific proceedings. I remind you that in this respect we have started and carried out a large part of the changes in the two procedural laws "The Civil Procedure Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. We are facing a test and I hope to endure this test, to endure it in the most dignified way possible! I stress that the problem we are facing requires principled solutions. I therefore hope that you will support the principles with your vote. If there are disputes about mathematics and numbers, I think there are enough procedural possibilities to seek further consensus on this. I appeal that there be no opposition, but that there be a search for mutual points of contact that lead to mutual agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines, honourable Members of Parliament? I won't. To make a speech is the official representative Mihail Mikov, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. You have the floor, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! In fact, today, in these debates, we also celebrate about 40 days from the ritual burial of the previous Constitutional Amendment Bill.. A bill containing more things than what was tabled and discussed today, a bill which was gloriously buried in parliamentary archives. A simple question arises: after that Bill was buried, what gives importers the less of it reason to believe that it is viable? Maybe the signatures we collected? Perhaps a negotiation of the votes, which today will clearly outline who is in opposition and who is in the ruling majority, which wants to achieve some kind of election sign with a majority reached in the National Assembly. We from BSP left Bulgaria will not participate in this majority not only because we are in opposition, but because we are consistent because we believe that the arguments against the adoption of this Law on Constitutional Reform are much more than these clichés for reforms, the talk of political will, which is tired of the Bulgarian citizens and in which they do not believe.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u17	They're sick of it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u18	The characteristic of today's amendment to the Constitution is that it is done by an uncertain majority, which first asks the Constitutional Court whether it is unconstitutional! And the Constitutional Court justly answered you: "Vote, and we will tell you, because no one can take more responsibility than the MPs, who with their vote support one bill or another. It is heard these days that now this uncertain majority, assembled without an idea base, without common commitments for the reform of the judiciary, assembled on the principle of the political market for rubbing back in power, is waiting for the Venice Commission. Honourable MPs of the assembled majority, if the Venice Commission tells you that this does not correspond to the separation of authorities, the independence of the judiciary, then will you ask the Armenian pop?! [[Laughter, excitement.]] You must take your clear responsibility, not justify yourself and wait for someone outside the Chamber to tell you whether what you are doing is in line with the Constitution and whether it will lead to the efficiency of amendments to the Constitution on the judiciary. Dear Members of Parliament, several arguments and essentially. For us from BSP left Bulgaria it is absurd to determine according to the professional sign one and the other group in the Supreme Judicial Council. It's no coincidence that I don't say college, because the college for management bodies is not inherent. The College is inherent to the judicial authorities, but it is undeniable that the Supreme Judicial Council is not a law-abiding, blaming authority and therefore a body that expresses the true function that is taking place in the courtroom, which is carried out by a court, judge, prosecutor, investigator. It's ridiculous to look for a professional profile. It is even more absurd to look at today's Supreme Judicial Council, in which about 18 people have spent most of their lives as judges. It is interesting the question Mr. Tsatsarov in which quota you will put him in after over 20 years he was a judge and about two years he is the Prosecutor General. There are more if you read the biography of today's Supreme Judicial Council. The mechanical allocation to one quota or another kills the meaning of the body, kills the contents of the Supreme Judicial Council as a judicial authority. The proposed changes are mechanical. Of course, they will eventually lead to a change of the Supreme Judicial Council, but they will in no way guarantee the better functioning of the judiciary's governance. They will strongly lead to encapsulation inside both with regard to the legislative power and with regard to the citizens, the two main members of the prosecutors and judges. Nowhere in the Bill is there any reference to the participation in which quota of researchers and lawyers. How do we define? Or would a lawyer, if he's primarily involved in criminal cases, take it mechanically into the prosecutor's quota, if he deals primarily with civil cases, take it mechanically into the judge's quota? Or if a university professor is in civil law science, he will go to the Supreme Judicial Council, and you will take him to the prosecutor's quota of absurdities, which result from the attempt at all costs to challenge through the Constitution changes in the personnel composition of the Supreme Judicial Council, which, in fact, personal staff for the most part was selected by you with some procedures in some hearings in the plenary. This is where Mrs. Fidosova sat. There was a screen here to dazzle the audience. It was televised directly. And now this is the personal substrate you broadcast from the parliamentary quota with your votes. A very expensive price, however, you want to pay both you and the Bulgarian society and the Bulgarian state with such changes. Dear Members of the National Assembly, we cannot in any way accept professional orientation as a constitutional criterion outside the existing so far suppliers with high professional and moral qualities who have at least 15 years of legal experience. Too hypocritical is the care of improving the work of the judiciary. A brief reference in the archives shows that in this National Assembly, and in the previous, blocked then by the group of GERB, and in the former in the management of GERB, there is no system in hearing, discussing, discussing the reports of the Supreme Judicial Council, Supreme Administrative Court and the Chief Prosecutor's Office. And only he is the real basis for the necessary changes. Why is the Constitution changing, laws changing, and the Constitution not being implemented? Because this 2007 decision was also emphasised by the European Commission that it is the best way of interacting between the legislative power and the judiciary. A serious discussion, first, in the Supreme Judicial Council, and then here, on the stage of the legislative power, where the Minister of Justice has to come and he has to say what the problems are, what the prosecution squeaks, what the court squeaks. None of this! Even the proposal at the beginning of this meeting to begin the hearing of these blocked reports in the previous years was rejected by the leadership of the National Assembly. And the ideas, the motives were formed by non-governmental organizations, by media discussions and any other known forms of manipulation of public consciousness. But the serious discussion here on the parliamentary podium did not take place. Perhaps the Minister should tell us, since the personnel work is not going well in this Supreme Judicial Council how many times he has exercised a right, a very important right, to make proposals for appointments, promotions, reduction, removal and dismissal of judges, prosecutors and investigators. Because it's easy to say, Mr. Minister: there's corruption, there's corruption. How many times have you made a motion to dismiss, to transfer the constitutional rights that you have? When you're going to do these shifts, the judge's college, the prosecutor's college, and now you're going to take your eyes out on each other, this unprincipled majority of how many people to be in one college and how many people in the other. Is that the big constitutional issue, ladies and gentlemen? Take all your quotas, appoint them by the majority, and you'll see the result will be the same. Because the problems of corruption in the judiciary are, in fact, like problems in other authorities as well, are not so connected with mechanisms but are related to the accountability that this National Assembly refuses to realise with regard to the judiciary, they are related to those relative... I say relatively independent verification mechanisms and so on. The role of the Inspectorate was strengthened. In fact, the Inspectorate is changing from the kind given to it in the constitutional reform of 2007. It has become a completely different body. So far, the purpose of the Inspectorate has been to check the activities of the judicial authorities. Note not to the personnel of the authorities, without prejudice to the independence of judges, judges, prosecutors and investigators. That is, post-factum after completion, so that there is no interference. And now, during pending trials, the Inspectorate, which is part of the judiciary, from the accountability in the judiciary will check how it is said in the Project, will check the correctness of property declarations and events that undermine prestige and those related to violation of independence. Dear Members of Parliament, you can imagine how independent a judge will be in the judgment, in the judgment, in the sentence when he is knocked on the door by the Inspectorate in a complex pending process, let's say against a representative of the ruling majority, a minister or another prominent representative, and say: "We are now starting to check your property declarations, conflict of interest and other things. No, no, this has nothing to do with the case pending at the judge's bank. How will independence be ensured? Until now, the Inspectorate and, within the meaning approved by the European Commission, has been a body that checks after the case has been closed, in no case in the phase of suspension, time limits and uniform application of the law. Now the Inspectorate becomes an authority which, during the pending cases, will check the letters of one or another who have reached it, for a material discrepancy and so on. And now, by doing this thing with the Inspectorate, does it mean that the executive will have another body that will check its ministers and executive powers and a third body that will check on these matters the MPs? Under that Law, which, thank God, the National Assembly did not pass, I mean corruption, there was provided a single body for all. It says: judges, prosecutors and so on, conflict of interest and everything. There's an Inspectorate scheduled here. I don't know, Mr. Minister, you in the Council of Ministers, when you introduced that Law, didn't you read that the judges were supposed to be taken out of it? [[Applause from BSP LB.]] They should at least be taken out because they're already in conflict of interest here. I can say more things, but in the limited time I think it's not worth it. What is important is that the formed majority of the unprincipled market, not a political market, will be difficult to fool our partners from Europe. Very hard. Even more difficult will it be to fool Bulgarian citizens. And that is why, honourable Members of Parliament, Dear Minister, we from BSP Left Bulgaria will be consistent "We will not support today's Law on Constitutional Change." Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u19	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Are there any lines, honourable MPs? I won't. Is there a speech by the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? No. From the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Bloc to address the people's representative Petar Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I personally expected the debate to be a little more specialized so far, perhaps legal, but I see that it is turning out to be divided into two main poles, that is, one part of the people in this House will convince us how these amendments in the Constitution should not be supported, there is no need for judicial reform, things are very good in the judiciary, the court works wonderfully, the people are happy, we have no problems with justice. At least that's pretty much how I understood what I heard on the left side. [[Noise and lines.]] Of course, the others who hope to be a majority in this House today are those who do not like this status quo, who see problems... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u21	Please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u22	...who realize the problems as Bulgarian citizens point out to us, namely that the court is gasping that there is a deficit of justice, that the business is constantly under pressure and suffers from chronic lack of justice and so on. All these things that we have been hearing in recent years and that I do not see a tangible effort being made to be resolved, I would rule out perhaps the present, but, fellow Members, let us not forget that this effort that we have already made for several months will obviously be confronted constantly and, I would say, invariably with a strong reaction from those, I would call them dark forces who wish to keep the status quo the way it is and in the way that it obviously uses them. It was not a comment on the original bill that it was bad for him, that was bad for him, let's cut him in half for the sake of compromise. Then he came: Let us now ask the Constitutional Court. Now we're waiting, I don't know who else to say. Look, fellow Members, the definition of the Constitutional Court last week is very nice, and I advise everyone who hasn't read it to read it. There it is very simple and clearly spoken in very understandable language for every Bulgarian citizen, it does not need to be a lawyer, see what the constitutional judges have told us. They have said: The People's Representatives must be responsible for the creation of the laws, including the introduction of amendments to the Constitution, without relying on the institutional intervention of the Constitutional Court. Look how simple and simple! That is, we must really decide today whether we will support these proposed changes, whether we will bring between the two readings the good things that were present in the first draft. For example, there, if you have paid attention, there was an opportunity for the Minister of Justice to still speak at the meetings of these colleges. Now that opportunity has been taken away from him. Isn't it normal, since he's going to be there, that he can at least give an opinion? At least it seems logical to me, but, you see, it's gone. We from the Reformation Block could bring it in. There is no record of the prosecution that we insisted on and was present in the original bill. The D.A.'s office obviously isn't working well either. Apparently, the public expects increased accountability from her. This thing was also in the original bill, and it was lightly crossed out. We will also probably import it between the two readings and insist that it be accepted. There are other important things that could be imported between readings. Here I appeal really to the left, if they want to be consistent, to be constructive, to do this, not to reject a priori everything and to say: "Bash is the bill. Dot.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We're not going to support you. On the contrary, to offer what they believe can be improved. And I will immediately give you an example: if you remember from the left, in 2006, at the end of 2007 the fourth amendment is actually you. It is your current chairman who is the importer of these changes, and that is when the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council is created, but obviously this Inspectorate does not work the way it is expected of him. Apparently, his capacity needs to be strengthened. Do this. Here, it is proposed to be with extended powers, with additional capacity. Work in that direction. Support this. The other you may not support, but between the two readings, support something. Be constructive! Colleagues, I will conclude this by quoting again the Constitutional Court in this definition, the constitutional judges have said two more very important things. First of all, as I have already told you, they have said that it is high time for the National Assembly to take responsibility and, including with regard to the Constitution, to accept the changes. But something else has been said that carrying out a parallel procedure for evaluating legislative initiatives before a government body other than the National Assembly actually leads to inclusion in the norm of additional participants without being provided for in the basic law. And what the constitutional judges conclude with is that it seems that this danger has been underestimated by the MPs who have referred to the Constitutional Court with this request. I call on you: let us be responsible! Let's take our responsibility! Let us support these amendments to the Constitution, and everyone, of course, feels free to propose better options if he believes that there are, but to take a position and be clear and clear: do we like the status quo as it is now, or do we really want to change it and the judiciary to be reformed, and that is for the sake of citizens. Thank you. [[Private applause from RB and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? There are no lines. From the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, come in, Mr. Mitev. The word has the popular representative Christian Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members, the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front will support the proposed Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Constitution. This is our consistent position with the support of the updated Strategy for continuing the reform of the judicial system, part of which are precisely those fundamental points set out in the present plenary draft. I, frankly, could not understand the arguments on the part of critics not to support the bill. In practice, one of the main points is the establishment of colleges, or perhaps chambers, this is already a matter of terminological clarification, which can happen between the two readings, such as the judges and the prosecutors and investigators, is laid down in numerous and monitoring reports under the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism, it is also laid down in numerous recommendations of the Venice Commission or also called the Committee for Democracy through Law, so this situation is not new. It is known in many Member States of the European Union. Moreover, I personally believe that it will improve the work and personnel policy of the Supreme Judicial Council, at least because it will lead to a more professional approach, namely judges, to rule on the professional growth of judges, prosecutors and investigators, respectively, of the professional growth of prosecutors and investigators. As for the concerns expressed in the course of the debates and in the Temporary Commission and in the society that these changes cannot be made by a simple National Assembly, it is evident that this statement is untenable, at least because we do not in any way change the place of the Supreme Judicial Council as a body that administers the judiciary, we do not move it to the executive or legislative authority, nor do we give it executive or legislative powers. In this regard, there is no way to support such an opinion that we have a change in the form of government with the creation within the Supreme Judicial Council itself of its structures. As regards the change in the powers of the Inspectorate, their extension, the possibility to verify the declarations of the property status of the magistrates and this body, the Inspectorate, to be able to rule on issues relating to the conflict of interest of magistrates, namely to protect the court from irregular external influences and to carry out this activity, which the Bulgarian society expects, namely to be able to be respectively or disciplinaryly punished, or accordingly reduced in office, those magistrates who undermine the prestige of the judiciary, do not fulfil their duties and, in one way or another, are in conflict of interest in carrying out their highly responsible activities. Finally, but last but not least, we will support this bill, as it provides for, albeit a set-up model of the right to constitutional appeal by citizens through the referral by the Supreme Council of Law. This situation has long been expected by the Bulgarian society.. an opportunity, apart from the constitutional authorities that have been put in place so far, which can apply for a declaration of unconstitutionality to the Constitutional Court, now the Supreme Council of Law, which is in the immediate proximity, in the most direct connection with the protection of the rights and interests of the citizens, seeing that certain legal norms are contrary to the Constitution, can refer to the Constitutional Court and therefore rule on these issues. This may not be enough, but it is an important step in this direction. Of course, we also welcome the removal of the text which envisaged the secret vote. We have seen that the practice of secret voting in the work, especially of this Chamber of the Supreme Judicial Council, leads only to scandals. A person does not need to be a lawyer to realise that this secret vote in practice directly conceals a conflict of interest in part of the members of the Council. In conclusion, I would just say that it is personally offensive for me to hear here statements from the opposition in the National Assembly about unprincipled agreements. There are no unprincipled agreements, on the contrary the agreements are clear, principled, they are based on the updated strategy for reform of the judiciary, which was voted, as I recall, by a vast majority of almost all political forces, without the group of............................... On the contrary, the position around which a large part of the parliamentary groups are united is principled, correct and that is why we will support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u25	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Yavor Haytov from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. Here you go, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Today is September 23rd? one of the dark dates in Bulgarian history. And this is because on this date in 1947 Nikola Petkov was hanged one of the Titans of Democracy in Bulgaria, one of the leaders of the Agricultural Union and one of the people who really wanted Bulgaria to be a fair, fair and democratic state. But today we are discussing and debating amendments to the Constitution in the basic Law of our country. These changes, which are the subject of debate today, have brought together one, I would say, an impressive majority of 180 votes, which have proposed them for debate today, but with numerous remarks, with numerous discussions, debates, I would say, and disputes. There were those in our parliamentary group, too, honestly and openly. I can say that the initially tabled project did not meet our support in general. This is because we have seen an attempt at political interference in the judicial authorities and, in fact, a clear attempt to do so at a later stage. Of course, after many meetings, as I said, after many talks, an additional, new project was tabled, which we discussed in detail and decided to give support in full on the changes proposed so made. However, we do so, honourable Members, with the clear awareness that the judicial reform in Bulgaria is late, unlike what is happening in the Ministry of Health, in the Ministry of Education and Science. It seems to me that the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Minister, as we have had many times a reason to talk to each other, is late because Bulgarian citizens really want changes, clearly want the Bulgarian court and the entire magistrate to gain more trust, and not least, a faster court proceedings, and we do not meet enough laws that work and influence in this direction, which will facilitate, first, the judicial process and second, the speed of the process. In this regard, Minister, I think that you are also indebted to the National Assembly because we need more bills to address the reforms that we are all discussing to become a fact. What we would object to if, at the second reading, someone made an attempt is to master the political quotas in the Supreme Judicial Council. This issue may have grown tired of some of the Bulgarian citizens, it has been discussed repeatedly, but as a result of an independent judicial system, we believe that political interference should be as limited as possible. Next, it was discussed whether the Supreme Judicial Council should vote openly or secretly. It is our opinion that the secret vote must be preserved because we believe that this is the most democratic vote and the possibility of the least interference and influence in volition by the people who vote. Once again, with the clear awareness that judicial reform is late, late, and for the third time I will say: it is late, we will give our support. Just as, by the way, we were also importers in the texts that are now subject to debate, so I hope that we will gather the necessary majority and move on. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the BDZ.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u27	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. Is there anyone from the political party's parliamentary group, Ataka, to speak? No. From the Parliamentary Group of Alternative for Bulgarian Revival? I won't. Are there any other statements? Mr. Velizar Enchev, MP, non-member of a parliamentary group. You have the floor, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u28	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The fact that the ruling majority refused to broadcast live on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio Debate on the Bulgarian Constitution shows that it is here that there is fear among the ruling majority, fear in the lack of arguments for the proposed changes. A second failure, which I can conclude, but it is not from today, but from a month ago, is that in fact the Constitutional Court rejected your request as admissible and this panic action shortly before the summer vacation for collecting signatures proved completely pointless. What reform is involved when you propose these reforms in the Constitution, when the most important reform is missing for depoliticisation of the judiciary, or to be clearer, in this reform you have proposed, there is no complete elimination of party quotas in the Supreme Judicial Council. Tell me: will the judiciary be independent, will the College of the Supreme Judicial Council be independent, since five of the judges, half of the judges are a personal choice of the ruling coalition, whoever it is?! When not the court guild, honourable colleagues, but politicians elect judges and prosecutors, in this case the law is the maid of the elite, and not the people's, as should be expected, and no one should expect that in this situation, when everything is partnered, specifically in the Supreme Judicial Council, Temida will be able to work blindfolded. No one should expect justice from magistrates who owe their career to their politicians here in Parliament, not to their qualities and to the depoliticized Supreme Judicial Council. I ask myself, though, why do you not want to completely eliminate the party-quota principle in the judiciary?! And I'm answering straight away because if we remove party quotas in justice today, prisons will be filled with corrupt politicians tomorrow. Speaking of party quotas in the judiciary and the need to remove them, I cannot pass on the fact that the sacrifice of these quotas is not just the Supreme Judicial Council. These quotas are a tumor formation in the Constitutional Court and in the Central Election Commission. And it is no secret that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are known in advance, as it is known how judges appointed by parties will vote. This, my fellow Members, is not justice, it is an imitation of justice! And what about the Central Election Commission, which is entirely drawn up on a party-quote principle?! In fact, the CEC, which these days is very relevant, is moral and legal absurd. And I don't think anyone's going to question what I'm saying. How can you be objective in organizing and holding elections when you are in this Commission at the will of your party leader and not by the will of the people?! No matter how much you run away from these issues, for party quotas both in the Constitutional Court and in the Supreme Judicial Council and in the Central Election Commission, it is time for radical, really constitutional reforms leading, however, to depoliticisation in all the three bodies that I mentioned. The time has come, not the parties, but the professional guild, to elect magistrates to the Supreme Judicial Council and to the Constitutional Court. The time has come for something revolutionary and democratic to choose members of the CEC not from the parties, but to choose as the MPs are elected in elections! Otherwise the elections will be manipulated, the transition parties will perpetuate their place here and thus block the emergence of a new political force in parliament. Finally, I cannot pass the hypocrisy of the parties to the right, which only until yesterday, two months ago pleaded for something very good to be given the right of every Bulgarian citizen to refer to the Constitutional Court, and today they are silent on this issue. Of course, there's good news in what you're offering. I can't argue with that. The only good news is the agreement reached by the Supreme Council of Law to have the right to refer to the Constitutional Court, in particular to have a limited form of constitutional appeal by the Supreme Council of Law. That's probably the only plus in what you're offering. I will vote, of course, against the proposed constitutional changes. The only change... [[Loud noise on the right.]] I will vote against because these changes that you are proposing, honourable Members, do not exempt the judiciary from political shackles. The only change is that these changes are Europeanized because they are approved... Where is Mrs. Kuneva? They are Europeanised by foreign ambassadors in Bulgaria, who until yesterday have allowed themselves unacceptable interference, advising us to unite around this judicial reform. If we have to unite, honourable Members, for judicial reform with those who are guilty of the criminal disappearance of material evidence, I thank you! I do not accept the European directive as a union with criminals! If I have to unite with the authors of the affair, no, thank you! [[(Lowered noise and lines in GERB: Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, ……]] I do not want to unite with the authors of the affair Misho beer, which offer these changes in the Bulgarian Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u29	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mestan. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister of Justice, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms shall proceed to the debates on the fifth amendment and addition of the Bulgarian Constitution from the position of the only parliamentary group that has participated in all editions of the ordinary National Assembly, a direct participant in the Grand National Assembly, which does not sign the existing Bulgarian Constitution. I particularly stress this fact. We already had a clear understanding that in this Constitution there are restrictions that could make the Bulgarian transition from totalitarianism to a democratic civil society with a market economy successful, but there are such restrictions in it, which were the prerequisite for this transition to be painful, longer than in other countries. Despite this fact, the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in all its actions has adhered to the spirit of the Bulgarian Constitution. You can expect us to be active accomplices to the amendments to this Constitution, but you cannot expect us to be runners for ideas that violate the spirit of the Constitution, I repeat, which is not signed only by our parliamentary group. Of course, correctness obliges us to say that, apart from the DPS, a small part of the then right, the Union of Democratic Forces also did not sign the Constitution. The fact is that with this change, four of the five amendments to the Constitution affect the judiciary. There is clearly a need to reform the judiciary. Let me just remind you that the first amendment to the Constitution, which affected the judiciary, was motivated not by anything, but by the consensus assessment of the Bulgarian society and our partners from the European Union that the principle of independence of the judiciary in Bulgarian conditions has degenerated to the principle of self-closure, self-reproduction of the judiciary, in a principle of self-sufficientness of the judiciary. That is why I recognise, and under external pressure, the then triple coalition 2005 - 2009 adopted an amendment introducing the figure of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council, just to overcome this difficult feeling in Bulgarian society. It is very important now that we do not go to the other extreme to create conditions for direct political interference in the work of the judiciary, because we have gone through such a vicious stage and the Supreme Judicial Council, and the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council should have decided precisely this issue Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, I assume you've already noticed that I am talking about the judiciary in its entirety, in the integrity of its three ingredients, a court, prosecution and investigation. Whether anyone agrees with the principle that the judiciary is both the court and the prosecution and the investigation is its problem. The more important issue is that the founder has ruled: the judicial authority is the court, the prosecution and the investigation in their entirety. And precisely the Constitution, which is not signed only by the DPS, says: "The unaltered principle of independence of the judiciary applies to the same extent to the Minister and to the court and to the Prosecutor's Office. I didn't say it, I didn't say it, and neither did Chetin Kazak, the founder said it. Thus advocated, the principle stands outside the political will of both the DPS Parliamentary Group and all eight parliamentary groups, which make up the forty-third National Assembly. In this sense, no constitutional change was in this Project, whether in any of the following, could be contrary to the principle of the independent judiciary. I repeat, not of our own volition, both for the court and for the prosecution. Why am I saying this? I don't think the debate should end with my speech. They start with the question that I will now formulate, with the problem that I will now put, because, if we are honest with ourselves, this is the problem that will prevent or make it possible for us to successfully implement the constitutional project that is on our attention. Ladies and gentlemen! In these few paragraphs, by which we amend the Bulgarian Constitution, we are implementing a serious reform of the judiciary. My first call to everyone is not to appreciate this project as, I will quote public statements by leading politicians in Bulgaria: No, these expressions are absolutely unacceptable, not to say....................... because the change is extremely substantial and it is mainly in two directions. The first is the division of the Supreme Judicial Council so that the judges' guils can take responsibility by granting the ultimate authority to take part in the court and, respectively, prosecutors and investigators in the council of prosecutors and investigators. This is a huge change, which, hopefully, will have an effect of greater responsibility, and also as a final effect, a higher professionalism of the management staff, both the court and the prosecution. The second major change is the way the representatives of the judiciary will be elected to the Supreme Judicial Council by direct choice of the principle: a magistrate is equal to one vote. No one has the right to underestimate these amendments. Now we come to the problem of problems.. the ratio of political.. Magistrate quota in the two guilds. Let us recall that in the current Supreme Judicial Council the ratio is 11 members of parliament, i.e. a political quota, compared to 14 magistrates; that is, we have a majority of the magistrate's quota because this requires the judiciary to be independent. It cannot be independent if it depends on the political quota. Regarding the guilds. The magistrates' Guild of Judges we keep this principle in the project. The ratio is eight magistrates to five representatives of parliament. The question is whether this principle is respected with regard to the guild of prosecutors and investigators there the ratio is 6 to 6 is it a violation of the principle of independence of the judiciary in the part of prosecutors and investigators? In our opinion, yes. Then why did you sign this project is a question to which we owe an answer. Because during the meetings, we should express an assessment that they were indeed very constructive, and all participants were very respectfully expressing their positions. Such valor is necessary in today's debates. The colleagues with whom we were in dialogue know that even then we expressed our deep conviction that the predominance in favour of magistrates should be guaranteed in both guilds. However, because the insurmountable condition of the Reformation Bloc colleagues to move on the constitutional project was to wager a 6 to 6 ratio with a subsequent no-control but a subsequent referral to the Constitutional Court to ensure that we would not violate the Constitution in the part concerning the principle of independence of the judiciary, we made this compromise. Unfortunately, the Constitutional Court refused to give an interpretive decision. Then what are we doing in this situation? I sincerely ask that question. You remain in your position, we remain not with our deep doubts, but with our deep conviction that the predominance of magistrates must be guaranteed in this guild. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to go a little further. I know that there is a political thesis that the place of the prosecution and the investigation is not in the judiciary; that it is better that the prosecution and the investigation be located in the executive power, because there are also such systems that I do not give examples, it seems to me, and in Germany it is so only that this is your political thesis. Imagine that it could be a political thesis of both GERB and DPS, and BSP simultaneously. What if the Constitution says otherwise, if the founder has said otherwise, the Grand National Assembly? I think that when we talk about amendments to the Constitution, the question: "What do we want?" is preceded by the question: "What can we do without breaking the Constitution?" In this sense, constitutional change is not an outburst of close-party vision. Constitutional change is a product of constitutionality and agreement. Let me remind you when the thesis occurred: the place of the prosecution was not in the judiciary after you got away with the elected Prosecutor General in the late 1990s. I know that, too. Everyone in this room knows that. Now, our call from the DPS Parliamentary Group is: at second and third reading, without extending the scope of constitutional amendments with new close-party views, and by stepping into an agreement, so to clarify the texts that, in the most controversial paragraph, we strongly proclaim the independence of the judiciary and the court and the prosecution and the investigation. This is the only sensible thing we could have as an approach. This is the constructive approach by which we will successfully finalise this constitutional change. Everything else is a continuation of a wrong approach, in which, knowing that our proposals are in violation of the Constitution, we will do them in order to then judge from a position of moral censors those who are It's simple. I think it will no longer work in the eyes of Bulgarian citizens. I will say one more thing: if the ideas of reforms in the judiciary are beyond the limits imposed by the basic Law, be honorable and ask us to convene a Grand National Assembly, and then you will see all the true reformist power of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. But you can't ask us, under an ongoing Constitution, to be runners up for a violation of the Constitution. In the context of constitutionally permissible we have all our responsibility and with all our constructiveness. Just for the sake of this principle and today we will support at first reading the draft amendment and supplement to the Bulgarian Constitution, and not reduced by 36 votes. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u31	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Mestan, I'm taking a line because in general you've done one thing, I'd say a very correct statement, except maybe the last few sentences. I want to tell you two things. The first question is, "What are we doing?" You were absent when I spoke and when I was actually quoting the definition of the Constitutional Court, and there it is clearly stated that...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u33	I was listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u34	... The National Assembly and the Members of the National Assembly must assume their responsibility, including to support or not to propose a bill and not to wait for another institution to tell them what to do. I suggest that we really support these changes, as you have said. The other reason I take a cue is something I hope you understand. You have quite a high legal culture, and here it seems to me that there is a misunderstanding in what is the independence of the judiciary and what is actually the function of the separate components of the judiciary in it. Or, in other words, the court, the prosecution and the prosecution are not equal in the judiciary. It is the court that must be the independent and judge, and the prosecution and the prosecution are parties to the process. This is the thin difference that I hope you will understand and distinguish, and that is why we from the Reformation Block so much to keep the prosecutor's quota to be on parite, that is to say that there are six to six, and in the judiciary there really is no dominance of political persons. By the way, the ideal option for the judges' quota is seven out of four what was originally proposed by the Minister of Justice. But precisely in order not to feel that there is any desire for interference on our part with the prosecution, we agreed there to be a pariah six to six. By the way, I am very interested to see the man who will sit across from the Attorney General in this college and say: "No, against his opinion." I'm very interested to see this man. It takes a lot of courage for something like that. Keep those things in mind. I really think it is important that the court has no doubt that it is independent. This is everything we are told by all the authority institutions, and this could be achieved somewhat in the way the distribution is proposed at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Any other lines? National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! Mr. Mestan, you are a man who characterizes himself as a person with an exquisite expression. However, today you have admitted some inaccuracies in your speech, which are even bordering on insulting and insulting people mostly to the representatives of the judiciary. I don't think you need to be much of a lawyer to know the rule that law is actually the basis of statehood. I don't think you need to know that you can't afford to use the term "gildia" when it comes to judges and prosecutors. I think you are an intelligent and literate person enough to know the meaning of the term "gildia" to allow yourself to use it in one such statement, which concerns amendments to the Constitution. I hope you understand. I'm not saying this to pick a fight, but you know that "gildiya" means a trade association above all. And to indirectly define the judiciary as a trade organisation, I personally would not accept it. That's why I'm doing this line in the context of something else. You don't have to be much of a lawyer or constitutionalist in order to be able to separate justice from injustice so that you can understand that there is a huge deficit of justice today and that political will is really needed today in order to make the first step towards the justice and better work of the judiciary. And this better job is when you create an opportunity for an organism to cleanse itself, to self-control itself. What is also done with the division of the two quotas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, I have always been curious to receive lines from people with insufficient philological literacy. Open the English dictionary of modern Bulgarian language to read the dictionary that is behind Guildiya. You will find that there is absolutely nothing in the word "gildiya" but nothing, not even a shadow of something negative. And that in a political speech, the word "colegy" can be replaced by "gildia" is something that is not worth explaining to you. There is nothing negative as content in the word "gildiya." Read the dictionary article again. It was more interesting, of course, Mr. Slavov's line. Mr. Slavov, there is a difference between the functions, the different functions of the court, the judge and the prosecutor. In the process there is no doubt a difference. But in view of their constitutional status, as belonging to an independent judiciary, unfortunately, this particular Constitution does not make a difference, and I had the opportunity to explain why. Because in the conditions under which it was adopted, we were referring to the negative experience of the totalitarian state in which the prosecution was literally a weapon for human rights violations. Therefore, in view of the particular situation, our founder of the Grand National Assembly went to the other extreme. And if we want, if we have ideas that are in the direction of differentiation and status with a view to bringing them into line with their functions in the process, you know very well that this is a matter of a Grand National Assembly. Have the courage to ask for it! Have the courage to ask for it, because this is your honorable position. This Constitution doesn't limit it. We want more, so we want a Grand National Assembly. Perhaps sooner or later the Grand National Assembly should be convened in order to adopt a single act of its own liquidation in order to enable all the powers of the founder to be transformed as powers of the ordinary National Assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u39	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. For a statement? The people representative Borislav Borisov has the floor. Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of Alternative for Bulgarian Revival. You have the floor, Professor. Borisov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Recently, especially after the initial support of the ABB project, some interpretations have appeared in the media and parliament, to put it mildly, false, and sometimes quite negatively directed towards the Political Party ABB and its parliamentary group, such as change of positions, instability and so on. I therefore allow myself today to lay out the main positions of the political views of the ABB on discussions by all of us now on the issue of constitutional changes. First of all, I would like to emphasise that we have consistently defended these political views from the very beginning of the question of judicial reform. We have stood by them in all the formats of meetings and discussions on this subject, and we will stand by them today in the parliamentary discussion on this issue. What are these basics? Firstly, it is necessary to recall that, after supporting the updated judicial reform strategy, we first called for a debate on the proposed changes and proposed real changes in the legislation that we are still convinced of, were the quickest and most direct way towards implementing an effective judicial reform. Secondly, in connection with our desire to implement an effective judicial reform, the ABB has submitted to the National Assembly a detailed draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on the Judiciary. The bill was subject to a preliminary discussion of a special meeting organised for this purpose, which was attended not only by the three major experts, but also by the most prominent professionals in this area, and was taken quite positively by its main key these were expressed approval by the attendees. I have an important clarification to make here. In relation to the allocation proposed in the draft Law in the quotas of judges, prosecutors and investigators, and in particular the proportion of the prosecutors' quota, which is the same as the numerical expression proposed in the amendments to the Constitution, which the ABB objects to, by certain political forces, parliamentaryly represented, certain speculations have emerged, to call them. In both, and in the other, the numerical ratio is the same, but one of us is proposing it, and the other, related to the amendments to the Constitution, we object. Yes, indeed the ratio is the same, but with a qualitatively different meaning and philosophy of the Draft Law on the Judiciary from the proposed also ratio, but with a radically different philosophy in the Draft amending the Constitution. To see this obvious difference, it is enough to make a simple review of one and the other bill, but this seems to some do not. In this sense to speculate with statements that ABB once proposed the same texts, and now does not support them, is an example of legal nihilism and weak legal analysis. I would add weak legal professionalism if I was not convinced that this was done quite deliberately. Thirdly, when submitting the first Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Constitution, representatives of the ABB did not support it in voting in the Commission, as we have stated our position clearly and rightly enough, namely: that we are against the approach that accompanied the proposed amendments and against the specific legislative proposals. Without entering into the specifics of these proposals and of our objections, this will leave it to the lawyers in their professional discussion, now it has a political emphasis, I will only point out that none of our questions, objections and proposals have been taken into account. It's completely unheard of! Moreover, it was right then that there was the beginning of a malicious attitude that you see, the ABB, the party that first launched reform initiatives in the sector, is actually against reform. I do not want to anticipate the events, but what I have been given participants in the National Assembly meeting with representatives of the Venice Commission and their statements coincide entirely with our expert position and opinion. But let us wait for the written opinion of the Venice Commission. It is strange that representatives of the Temporary Committee in the National Assembly, as well as the biggest critics of the position of the ABB, have saved the public any possible criticism of their project. Perhaps because those who were waiting for the legitimization of all the positions of their Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Constitution, namely by the Venice Commission, did not receive it at this meeting. We'll see about that. Fourth, in order for there to be no ambiguity, I will repeat once again the position of ABB, which remains unchanged. We are for constitutional reform in the first two points of the project, however, we strongly disagree with the political quota in the College being equal to the quota of professionals. This ratio is not only not working, but actually leads to a significant increase in the influence of politicians over professionals. I apologize for the expression, but in this case, the desire of the importers to ride for this expression, I apologize to the professional quota of politicians, is more than obvious to us. All this was clearly stated even before the introduction of the new draft amending and supplementing the basic law in the Chamber. Fifthly, based on his position, the leadership of the ABB decided when submitting the new draft to the Parliamentary Group as a whole to vote on abstention and the chairman of the group voted on a vote to give a symbolic sign to the political forces that the ABB will participate in all future debates on the Constitution and will support changes that are not contrary to its positions. Correctness requires that we point out that after the meeting of the parliamentary group with Prime Minister Borisov, which, I stress, ran in an extremely constructive spirit, the ABB agreed to support the proposed changes, but in a version of the prosecutor's quota to ensure the independence of the prosecution in the work of the College. Principled objections to the meeting were not expressed, but on Thursday, after the meetings with the other parliamentary groups, the six-to-six-to-six-to-six-to-six-to-six-to-six-to-six-to-six-to-six-in-the-prosecution-six project came back. In this situation, we have once again stated our already announced position that when voting in the Commission, as well as at first reading, the parliamentary group will not support a draft with such allocation of allowances in colleges. The chair of the parliamentary group will vote for... as symbolic support for our future participation in the debates at second reading. That's it, and it's still the ABB position. The additional two votes were given at the request of colleagues from GERB to achieve the legacy number of 180 votes. Our agreement on these additional two votes was not an expression of a change in our position, but a single act, in order to ensure that this critical situation of the two votes shortages, the ABB once again demonstrates its positive attitude and support for the continuation of the constitutional reform process, as well as to support the efforts of the mandate carrier and the prime minister for the successful launch of this important process for the country. However, I repeat that the decision on the two additional votes was of a single nature. At present, the positive attitude of ABB towards constitutional changes remains. It remains in force and the initial decision taken as our desire to develop the process will be symbolically expressed in the positive vote that will be given by the President of the ABB Parliamentary Group in a vote. Unfortunately, the positive action expressed by our country by the two additional votes for development of the process was deciphered in an interview with Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva in the following way, I quote: The change in ABV's position for changes in the Constitution shows that the coalition formula two plus two does not work effectively. Is the old tried and tested way of searching for the enemy to justify one action or another? [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] I hope not, it doesn't matter if the enemy has a party ticket or not. [[(Radio.) Noise and lines.)]] In this regard, it seems to me that some of the heads of parliamentary groups should think about why and how the Prime Minister of the Republic, first of all, took up the talks with all the parliamentary groups on constitutional reforms and, secondly, why and how in just four days did the prime minister manage to achieve a result that the others failed to achieve in four months? The answer to this question is only one, and it is contained in the word "dialogue," whether the dialogue is conducted with supporters or opponents. Unfortunately, I think that dialogue, except as a simple word, is unknown as meaning and action for some heads of parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u41	You have one minute, Professor. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u42	Mr. Chairman, may I ask you to extend your time?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u43	You're gonna have to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u44	The maxim is known that politics is an art of compromise. But what compromise can there be when there is no dialogue? I will immediately mention the positive meaning of the dialogue that Minister Moskov made, for example. Through numerous meetings and talks on his imported draft of the Health Act managed to give up some of his own, but managed to persuade us, including us from the ABB, in the sanity of many of his otherwise disputed proposals. As we have all seen, the Law was passed with extremely strong support from the MPs. I'll look at one example. At the last meeting of the Development Council, my colleague Radan Kanev, unexpectedly for me, and I guess for other colleagues, made a statement of the type of declaration, with the following meaning, I quote by memory: We have insurmountable differences. Between us stands a deep dividing line.. They are on the left, we are on the right.......................I share frankly with you that I was surprised by this speech....... a statement by an indisputably smart and intelligent young party leader, and that of a democratic party. In fact, what if everything Mr. Kanev said is true? Yes, the ABB is on the left, the Reformation Block is on the right, both of them have their views and their positions, and in many ways different. Does it mean, however, that when it comes to important decisions for the state and people, both sides should not talk to each other, should not have dialogue to seek and find the most reasonable and useful solution possible? The point of politics, of democracy, is not to draw dividing lines, but to look for ways to overcome them and delete them. Europe's example in this direction is indicative, however, dialogue is needed again to this end. In this sense, we at ABB do not categorically accept this style of work and attitude of opposition, whether we are accused or not, as an enemy of a political force. This is an unproductive style of work that does not lead to seeking and finding consent. It's a path leading to a pointless confrontation. Finally, in this case today, and also in the discussion of constitutional changes further, we join and consider the correct and reasonable approach expressed by the President of the Parliamentary Group of GERB Mr. Tsvetanov that for constitutional changes we will have to comply with the opinion of the Venice Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u45	Thank you, dear Professor. Borisov. Are there any lines? I won't. Colleagues, are there any more who would like to speak to us in order to navigate the voting time? [[Noise and lines.]] Will there be any other comments besides that? [[Noise and lines.]] The word for speech has the popular representative Radan Kanev and then we vote. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] I'm calling a 30-minute recess. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u46	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, we continue the plenary session. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Before the break, the request for a speech said the people representative Radan Kanev. Mr. Kanev, co-chairman of the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u47	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I will start with today's date, which marks 68 years since the execution of the opposition leader in the Bulgarian Parliament Nikola Petkov and not because the Bulgarian Agricultural People's Union is part of the Reformation Block coalition, and not because we consider ourselves the heirs of the then crushed political opposition in Bulgaria, and not to continue a topic that is constant in our speeches, but it is the topic of political violence in Bulgarian history, but because the date 23 September 1947 officially marks the end of the rule of law in Bulgaria. If political democracy in Bulgaria during this period of Bulgarian historical development had ended significantly earlier with the establishment of a single regime after the coup 1934, then the Bulgarian rule of law and the communist model of government acquire their density with the force of the judiciary with the leader of the Bulgarian political opposition. From this moment on, Bulgarian justice is characterized by a 100% political dependence of the Bulgarian court and with repressive out-of-control by the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. And here I would like to draw attention to Mr. Mestan, whose speech I listened very carefully to, that the communist regime is not characterized by the prosecution, subordinate to the state institutions and turned into their cannon, but is characterized by the prosecution subordinate to the dominant political party and to the special services it has led, that is, the prosecution, which is an instrument and bat for uncontrollable repression and on the state institutions, which, if, in the 40s and 50s, is expressed in the physical destruction of the internal and external opposition, in the 1970s and 1980s, as an example in today's China, is expressed in an out-of-control repression of a electoral principle of political corruption. In other words, the uncomfortable of the supreme political power are accused of corruption, while corruption flourishes where it is admitted by the supreme political power. With the adoption of the new Bulgarian Constitution, without reform of Bulgarian justice in 1991, the beginning of the long and tormenting quarter-century Bulgarian transition is actually set. It is no coincidence that we ask ourselves: Is Bulgaria in transition today, or is it now in a state of permanent stagnant mafia management in the absence of the rule of law? Because we've had parliamentary democracy for 25 years, and we've had a market economy for 25 years. Democracy and the market economy, however, do not work fully and do not give their fruit to the common man where the rule of law is absent. And the Bulgarian Constitution since 1991 could not establish the rule of law in Bulgaria. And perhaps it is no coincidence that far from more than two thirds of the MPs in this Forty-third Parliament are political successors of those far below one third of the MPs in the Grand National Assembly who refused to vote at that time, because these problems were visible even then and all warnings made by this small group in the Grand National Assembly, consisting of representatives of the Union of Democratic Forces and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, all these warnings were not heard by the majority of more than two thirds in the Grand National Assembly, but were heard and understood for 24 years already by every Bulgarian citizen suffering from lack of the rule of law. And here we move on to the objectives of what we are voting on today's constitutional changes. It is terrible to hear from many people that these objectives can be complied with the requirements of the European Union or the European Commission. This sounds conjunctural, this sounds like a lack of national sovereignty, this sounds like a lack of awareness by the government and opposition in Bulgaria how important judicial reform is, whether it is expected in one form or another in Brussels, in Venice or in Liechtenstein. If we proceed to constitutional changes as a basis on which judicial reform can be developed in Bulgaria, it is because we have to put an end to the long-standing ten-year period in which there is no rule of law in Bulgaria, there is no rule of law and which makes much of our efforts to establish political democracy and a market economy meaningless. Is there a urge within Bulgarian politicians, whether they are in power or in opposition, such a fundamental reform, or not? Every effort for judicial reform in constitutional democracy has two binding goals and two binding elements.. encouraging internal recovery processes within the judiciary, because problems with corruption have had every society, but those who are successful and rich today have solved them early enough, and a system of interconnections and control in compliance with the separation of authorities, but in avoiding uncontrolled independence or controlled arbitrary, which are the obvious problems of the judiciary in Bulgaria. Or as Mrs. Monica Macovei says, "Clean justice, because it can clear everything else afterwards." The constitutional debate is not necessarily a debate of sharp political opposition, but a debate of constructive demand for a majority and maximum agreement. The Bulgarian Constitution lays down two levels of constitutional majority of 180 votes and 160 votes in an ordinary National Assembly. I cannot agree with Mr. Mikov, who says that the constitutional vote can determine a majority and opposition in a parliament. No, the constitutional vote is called through a constructive debate to bring together enough MPs from the majority and from the opposition who agree that society needs a deep change. For this reason, we are obliged to bring together, if not 180, then certainly 160 votes, so that we can give the judicial reform a chance, not to end it with this vote, but to give a real chance for it to start as a process of building institutional interconnections and controls, checks and balance, according to American terminology, and as a process of internal cleansing of our deeply rotten judicial system. In July, an agreement was reached on such a fundamental change. At the cost of very difficult negotiations, huge compromises came to the collection of over 180 signatures under a bill that guarantees the independence of the Bulgarian court and increased public control over the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. These two elements, expressed in a majority in the College of Justice of the divided Supreme Judicial Council and in the Parliat of the Prosecutor's and Investigative College, are an integral element of the compromise reached in July. Because he was preceded by the consideration of other options that we are hearing today. This enables the unity of these two elements, gives us the opportunity to talk about cleansing the judiciary in its entirety and to strengthen its ability to cleanse the other elements of the country's governance from corruption. Because it's not the Inspectorate that's fighting corruption, it's the justice system. The prosecution and subsequently the court are still the only authorities that can identify and punish a crime, whether committed by people of the same system. This opportunity we must give with judicial reform and today's vote can only be a step towards securing this opportunity. In reaching the July compromise, and here Mr. Mestan very rightly recalled it, it also came to an agreement for a preliminary ruling to the Constitutional Court, with our commitment to ensuring this reference for a preliminary ruling that all the importers have signed. For better or worse, the Constitutional Court has rejected this possibility. But the compromise had another very important element. There are recordings, wallographs from the Conference of Presidents, which we held, and on which the Reformation Block directly asked the balanced 6:6 composition of the Prosecutor's Office of the Supreme Judicial Council does it meet political objections, or only constitutional-legal concerns about unconstitutionality? On this request we received two very honest answers. The answer to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms was: "We do not have any political objections to such parities, but we have grave concerns that such a vote by a simple National Assembly would be unconstitutional. " And vice versa, from the ABB Parliamentary Group, we have received an honest answer, which we respect that they have their political objections to such a parities between the public or political quota and the professional quota in the prosecutorial and investigative part of the divided Supreme Judicial Council. From this moment on, it is clear to us that the political majority for the implementation of this reform constitute parties that have no political objections, i.e. GERB, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the Reformation Block, the Patriotic Front and the Bulgarian Democratic Center. We can persuade our colleagues from both ABB and BSP, but we are obliged to respect their position based on political objections. Whether the norm, which we are about to vote today, corresponds to the Bulgarian Constitution, or not, is not a matter either philological or simply legal. It is not of the competence of either Mr. Mestan as head of the DPS Parliamentary Group, nor of my competences, even though I am a lawyer. It is one of the competences of people to whom the Bulgarian statehood has delegated the huge responsibility to be constitutional judges in one of the envisaged ways. There is no doubt that this norm will be attacked before the Constitutional Court. There is no doubt that he will rule one way or another. There is no doubt that if he decides that this balance is not within the authority of the ordinary National Assembly, the Reformation bloc, based on his election programme, in which only of all the groups in this Parliament is written that a Grand National Assembly must be called, will ask for it and enter into dialogue with the Movement for Rights and Freedoms with the hope that today's guarantees will be fulfilled and we will indeed go to real reform through a Grand National Assembly. But only when the Constitutional Court ruled. In conclusion, there are two extremely controversial attacks against the bill that we are going to vote on today. One attack is that we do nothing with him, the other is that with him we reverse constitutional balances that are not within our powers. In addition to turning each other off, which proves their absurdity, they are also deeply false. This is a fundamental change, the greatest possible within the current Constitution by a simple National Assembly. However, if we give up on her, the attack that we are doing nothing will prove to be too valid. I therefore call on my fellow Members to vote today 180 or 160 as much as the balance in this House shows, but to vote for a real change at both first and second and third readings. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u48	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u49	Mr. Kanev, I agree with your legal arguments. I came out to make a historical reply because twice today I hear about Nikola Petkov and about the defeat of the rule of law in 1946. The legal state in Bulgaria disappeared as early as 19 May 1934 with the Serbophile coup of the units. Bulgaria's sovereignty disappeared on 9 September when there was no more rule of law after 19 May. And the truth is: my respect for Nikola Petkov is a historical person, but he became the victim of his own naivety, before signing the Law of the People's Court, in which, for example, my great-grandfather was killed. But I'm not looking for historical revenge. I'm just saying, just to make it clear that, by arguing historically, we have to argue properly. Regarding your arguments, as you have already heard from my colleagues at the Patriotic Front, we will support the changes at first reading. However, I appeal to all my fellow Members, this amendment to the Constitution cannot give what society as a whole expects of a fair, swift, working and honest judicial system. This depends largely, first of all, on the people working in this system and, second of all, on the example that politicians and political leaders in Bulgaria themselves give. Because the change, first of all, must go through the heads of politicians, magistrates, and what we will write in one law or another, and so far there are such beautiful laws that just remain on paper. We shouldn't think that with one change, judicial reform is over. On the contrary, God willing, let it begin, it does not end. That was my line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Karakachanov. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Kanev. In the bill section, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u51	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Karakachanov, the historical part of your line is also important and I will address it in the same sentence. A controversial question is whether there can be a rule of law where there is no democracy, and many argue that there can be a rule of law and without parliamentary democracy, there can be a rule of law without a market economy. Many of our nostalgic fellow citizens believe that is what they believe about the rule of law and the punishment of crimes in the period when market economy and democracy were not. What I am saying is that a complete democracy and a complete market economy, whether formally established, where no real rule of law has been established, cannot bear fruit for ordinary people. They are born in a vicious cycle of buying elections, corruption and a new purchase of elections with the money from this corruption. Corruption, hidden behind the face of the market economy, represents in its main part public procurement. This vicious circle of Bulgarian society cannot come out without judicial reform. And here on the subject, the constitutional changes in this very limited form due to the compromises made can they meet people's expectations for judicial reform, not only can they not meet people's expectations for judicial reform, I sincerely hope that there is no one in this room to imagine that these constitutional amendments can lead, in themselves, to a profound change in Bulgarian justice. They open up the possibility with numerous further steps both from the current Parliament and from the following parliaments, as I said, on the one hand, to ensure the internal cleansing of the judiciary of the serious factors of corruption in it and, on the other hand, to strengthen the control mechanisms of the institutions and civil society on the judiciary in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Any other speeches? Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u53	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today we are discussing amendments to the Constitution proposed by the ruling majority. In the course of these discussions, we should ask ourselves what changes and why these amendments in the Constitution are being proposed to us. In general, the changes are inexplicable, as they do not in any way correspond to the initially published objectives of validating the independence of the judiciary. One thing is pre-clear: these are changes, the fruit of political backstage and bargaining, which in urgent order had to save coalition unity and the ruling majority because of the failure of the previous Constitutional Amendment Bill. Here it should be noted the key and leadership role of the DPS, which imposed their position on GERB and the Reformation Block. These are changes that have the claim to convince us that judicial reform is going, that it has not set in motion and that it is not waiting for the fate of other reforms, such as the one in healthcare or education. Alas, fellow Members, this is not an objective opportunity, the changes cannot fool anyone, neither the Bulgarian citizens nor our external partners, whose recommendations you are so keenly pointing out. Something inconvenient can't fulfill its purpose. These are changes showing the misery of the political and constitutional possibilities of the ruling majority. Unfortunately, through these actions, the ruling majority has launched the process of amending the Constitution itself, and hence it neglects the role and importance of the Constitution itself. The public is persistently shown and suggested that any changes to the Constitution are possible as long as the government decides that. The essence of the proposed changes lies in the envisaged structural reform of the Supreme Judicial Council and its division into two colleges. What will this structural reform lead to, will the independence of the SJC in making personnel and management decisions? The answer is pre-clear: no, because the division of the SJC is in no way in causal connection with the objective of promoting independence, raising professionalism and improving efficiency. On the contrary, it is clear to everyone that when you abruptly remove the majorities by which important decisions are to be adopted, independence and objectivity are not confirmed, no additional guarantees are created to prevent external or internal influence for the adoption of one or another decision. You also do not create prerequisites for the more democratic functioning of the supreme body of the judiciary. Arithmetics is simple: seven people needed to make decisions cannot decide more independently and more objectively, for example, than fifteen. Since it is apparent that the objectives of the proposed changes are not to establish independence and improve the governance of the judiciary, it should be assumed that the real objectives are different: to replace the personnel of the SJC with our people; to take account of something to the external partners; to insure society that the reform is somehow going well. The second important part of the proposed changes relates to the extension of the powers of the Inspectorate of Internal Control in the judiciary, controlling the lawful movement of cases and the organisation of administrative activities. With these changes you aim to turn it into something like a penkiller, some control curler for total pressure on independent magistrates. Control functions and activities inherent in the executive authority, such as the tax authorities, shall be mixed with the internal controls necessary for the work of the judicial authorities. In itself, this is illogical and unacceptable and puts at risk the independence of magistrates, not to mention that it is not feasible in the current composition of ten inspectors. For a proper assessment for the extension of the powers of the Inspectorate, the fact that although the Inspectorate's seat is in the judicial system must also be taken into account, this body is fully formed by the National Assembly, respectively, by the current ruling majority. Therefore, on an even greater basis, we should consider proposals to extend the powers of the Inspectorate as creating a broader prerequisite for political interference with the judicial authorities. To conclude, what will result if these changes are adopted and implemented? With sufficient fidelity, we can assume that a serious blow will be struck on the independence and effectiveness of the work of the judiciary. It will result in inevitable encapsulation and separation, even opposition to different magistrates on professional grounds. It will strengthen and increase the authority of the Attorney General, who will be completely sole authority in the prosecution's system. In general, the proposed changes clearly show the desire of the ruling majority to ride and control the judiciary. This will be easier achieved if the SJC is divided and its personnel are replaced. This will be easier achieved if, in substance, a new control body is created for pressure on independent magistrates, including during and during the decision-making process. The tales of strengthening the rule of law and fighting the mafia are an empty air concussion after seeing the real goals of the proposed changes. Therefore, we MPs from BSP left Bulgaria will not support the proposed changes. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u54	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Here you go, Mrs. Kovachka.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u55	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Management aims at always improving the functions of the system. That's who he is. Today, our Parliament has a responsible task to adopt proposals for improvement of the country's basic law. The Bulgarian Center of Democracy has always and consistently supported the proposals for amendments to the Constitution concerning amendments to the judiciary. This support is based on our understanding of the importance of the proper functioning of the judicial system for the modern state and the universal recognition of the chronic weakness of our judicial system with all the consequences for our society and our economy. Indeed, without an effective right and a sense of justice for people each country becomes weak. The process of drafting proposals for amendments to the Constitution concerning the judiciary was long and complex. After months of negotiations between the main political forces, the need to unite all for several major changes has come to an agreement. They are known to divide the Supreme Judicial Council into two colleges of judges and prosecutors, direct election of magistrates, strengthening the role of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council and the possibility of complaints from the Supreme Judicial Council to the Constitutional Court. These changes will undoubtedly make the system more transparent and improve the accountability of senior judicial authorities. Our firm understanding is that the proposed changes will be working and will make the judiciary more effective, faster and fairer. After all, all these changes aim to restore trust in the judiciary and people's sense of justice. For all these reasons, we have supported the proposals for amendments to the Constitution and, as a responsible and predictable political party, we will support them today. We do not consider the issue of quotas for determining the composition of the Colleges of the Supreme Judicial Council to be serious, and we believe that the debate on quotas can be resolved quickly enough in the presence of political will. We find that there is a risk of entering the plane of endless debate, in which there is a risk of losing the essence of the changes. Members of the National Assembly should focus on a final outcome and avoid pointless political division or hypertrophy of political interests in the debate. We must also not forget what signal the National Assembly will issue................................. for reforms and the recovery of the judiciary, or a delay and a real danger of stopping the reforms in the judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, what has recently happened at the Pervomay Police Department has once again led to public opinion on the problems of the judiciary. There are two conclusions, according to us, from what happened in Bulgaria the crime continues to attack cynically and seize the state. The existence of strong forces in society, the police and the judiciary can oppose this process. It has become apparent that even under good and bad laws, when there is political will, the fight against crime is won by the state. This is an important lesson for the executive and for all of us, and it shows how much it is necessary to unite around common decisions to improve the judiciary and how timely the proposals for amendments to the Constitution concerning the judiciary are put forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u56	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kovachka. [[Applause from the BDZ.]] - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u57	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Some of the previous speakers have brought us back to history, but let me remind them that this story has earlier dates. The anniversary of the September Uprising 1923 is celebrated today. [[RB lines.]] Because there's also June 9, 23rd. And because those who speak of a lack of democracy, of repression must return to the roots of these processes. But today is a different topic. Today, the issue is whether changes in the judiciary are necessary. And there is no parliamentary group, political power, and perhaps MPs who will give a negative answer to this question. For this reason, a few months ago, we supported the Judicial Reform Strategy, including we made a proposal to the decision adopted by the National Assembly. But then we also said that the reform of the judiciary does not begin and does not run out of amendments to the Constitution. So our position is consistent and justified. Four constitutional changes have already been made, of which three are for the judiciary. The latest of these changes from 2007 is a partial correction of the previous one since 2006. Now you are proposing that we go again a path that does not lead in a new direction. Again, with the same techniques and with the same manoeuvres, spells are cast that what is being adopted today will radically change the state of the judiciary. But here we should also ask the important political questions? The question Quo vadis? Who benefits, who supports these changes? These are the ones who voted on Bulgaria's huge billion-dollar government debt, these are the ones who chose the almost old Board of the Bulgarian National Bank. These are those whose representatives in the Central Election Commission in the majority have severely violated the Election Code. These are those who today have to be responsible for the outrage of the Registry Agency, and a number of other issues, because this list cannot be exhausted. Today, these constitutional changes will be supported by current and potential clients of the judiciary. Do you think their vote is impartial as to what the decision will be from now on? [[Applause from BSP LB.]] I ask: how will those who put the Constitutional Court's interpretation as an unconditional condition to make sure that what they will do today is in line with the Bulgarian Constitution? To ask the next group important questions: how will the judiciary actually change? Let me stress, this is what other speakers before me have said, that even now the judges are a majority in the Supreme Judicial Council. What prevents these honorable people from fully exercising their, mainly personnel functions? It's a fact. If they themselves seek any explanation beyond their consistency, competence and independence, then constitutional changes will not help because this fact will not be significantly changed. There is too much debate here over a constitutional arithmetic that many perceive as the number of football teams. Yes, there it is really important whether 11 or 10 people will play in the match, but here it is not possible for Parliament to choose one more or less to be determining the state and capacity of the Supreme Judicial Council. In other words, it seems to me that those who support change are hiding behind such small numerical ratios that do not reach the root problems of the judiciary. The other important issue is: do you think that the creation of separate colleges of judges and prosecutors will increase the power and independence of the judiciary as a whole? Yes, the judges and prosecutors themselves will probably be relatively independent from each other, but if we consider that the Supreme Judicial Council is not a judicial, but a governing body, this will by nothing increase the judiciary's power over political power, which is formed by the government and by the parliamentary majority. On the contrary, you will weaken it, because each group will have to defend its independence in terms of the much stronger political factors compared to them. Do we think it's appropriate, since you're entrusting the Supreme Judicial Council with real estate management, to leave it to the Minister of Justice, in view of that logic, to manage the movable property? Yes, the disability of the Minister of Justice is developing consistently, and it has already been said that he himself is also giving up the exercise of the initiative in solving personnel issues. You have not provided for a transitional provision in this Bill to tell us what happens after you vote.. today there will be some majority that will support these changes, what will next? Some majority, whether very high or less qualified, but there will be, but you do not answer this question, because perhaps this is the way to ensure the obedience of the current Supreme Judicial Council, and if it is necessary to form a new one. Because the career development of many magistrates is determined not by their professional capacity and their independence, but by the political and economic services they do in different periods of power. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] And if we follow, and this, Mr. Minister, as chairman of the Supreme Judicial Council, it is good to do so regardless of the texts that will be voted, for the last five or six years to see how the proposals are made, who are the people who are directly or through intercession performing certain orders and how they progress in the system, to see where these people have ended, whether they are the best trained as qualifications and from there on how they have developed professionally in the career. One such analysis will give you much more answers than these lean changes you are proposing. What's next? Let me move on to the second reading because the questions are already before us: will you reduce the duration of the term of office of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Supreme Administrative Court and the Prosecutor General because you shorten the term of office of the Supreme Judicial Council? You have to answer that question, and if you wave negative, we'll probably offer you this thing. We will offer it to you, and you will justify why the Supreme Judicial Council should have a shorter term and those people, of whom you had to provide support for the changes, promised them that their mandate would not be changed. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] The next question is: will the election of the parliamentary quota be proposed by qualified majority, as well as for judicial inspectors, because there is hardly any reason for them to be formed under different rules? Moreover, one of the recommendations of the Council of Europe, which I do not comment on, is precisely in this direction. There are other questions, but they will need to be answered between the two readings, so we will also propose topics for discussion within the judiciary of this subject of the amendments that you propose. And the last reason, it is no longer personal and it is no longer an argument for the audience, except as a parliamentary group not to support the proposed changes, is also personal, because people I can trust do not believe that these changes are sincere and profound. And this trust for me is more important, and this judgment than the arguments put forward in plenary today on why the amendments to the Constitution should be voted. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. - What's the line? There are no lines. To speak, the People's Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u59	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are at a very important moment for the Bulgarian judiciary, but also for Bulgaria as a whole. Going back a few months in October 2014, we took an oath as MPs in the forty-third parliament. At the time, perhaps no one thought that this topic would be discussed in this Parliament, judging from what happened in the forty-one and forty-two parliament. Perhaps a large part of the political parties built their strategy to oppose, but not to achieve goals that are important to the state and which can unite both politicians and give a very clear sign of the unification of the people in the country. Dear colleagues, the first sign that there will be radically different behaviour in the Bulgarian Parliament was the updated strategy for the judiciary, which was supported by 175 votes from the 40rd Parliament. But the stronger sign was given when we were able to elect a chief judicial inspector in April 2015, which was an impossible mission for the forty-one and forty-two parliament. This is the difference between all these parliaments and the current parliament. And when we started discussing the amendments to the Constitution, there were many different opinions. At the beginning we were talking about two or three parliamentary groups that could support them. Here I would like to congratulate absolutely all parliamentary parties, including BSP left Bulgaria. We have made efforts to actually have a constructive conversation with all the parliamentary represented forces. I, as president of the largest parliamentary group, have spoken with all my fellow Members in all the other groups, and I have even apologized for some other participants in this process expressing incalculable expressions that led to a return to a starting, starting point in the negotiation process. In the last three or four days, I would like to assure you that each of the parliamentary groups has been extremely serious about what we need to do today. Will we be able to vote on these constitutional changes at first reading, will we give the clear political sign? And although BSP left Bulgaria will not support constitutional changes I will thank them for their frank position, although it is different from the forming parliamentary majority. I would just remind Mr. Mikov that when the constitutional changes were adopted in 2006 "2007," then, in fact, exactly from this parliamentary tribune, the chairman of the then largest parliamentary group, BSP left Bulgaria, thanked the Bulgarian opposition for having reached political consensus and accepted these constitutional changes. That is why I want to tell my colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria that despite these differences we will try between first and second reading to actually achieve what you actually have as concerns, but this is still your principle position. I would like, on behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group, to thank all parliamentary parties for their serious attitude and for the acceptable compromises that each of the parliamentary groups has made in purely political terms. Thank you, colleagues. We are showing exactly this tone, which should exist not only here in plenary, but it should remain in connection with the upcoming local elections, where, if we have such behaviour, believe that we will have greater support than the Bulgarian voters and they will go to vote for each of the parties, assessing who can represent them, but let us be with behavior that can lead to the voters' motivation to vote when they see that there is political consensus and that there are politicians who want the state to move forward. Thank you, colleagues. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Do you have any lines, fellow Members of the National Assembly? No. Are there any other statements? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. Please, the Quaestors, invite the Members of the House to vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-144, submitted by Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska and a group of MPs on 25 July 2015. Dear colleagues, please vote. Vote 226 MPs: 184 against 34, abstention 8. [[Loud shouts. MPs from the parliamentary groups on the right stand up and clap for a long time.]] The bill was passed in the first vote. For a negative vote, the people's representative Tasco Ermenkov, followed by Valeri Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u61	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I voted against this bill not because I am against changes in the judiciary, and there is hardly anyone in this House who opposes these changes. But I'm asking you, colleagues, with this bill, what have we done? Did we create conditions to increase the trust of the Bulgarian citizen in the judiciary? [[Most of the members of the DPS leave the hall.]] Have we been able to create those conditions to speed up the speed of judicial decisions and give a clear signal of the inalienability of penalties when someone has crossed this threshold? Unfortunately, in any of these proposals we have not even seen what is presently present as an existing accountability of the judiciary to the National Assembly. Unfortunately, we didn't see anywhere to worry about how to subdue the passions of some prosecutors who write above the law. Unfortunately, nowhere in these changes is there anything else to help the Bulgarians believe in the judiciary, and the only thing we have been able to do, my colleagues, is to introduce the political principle of cadreing into this system, something that is unacceptable in a democratic state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u62	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Here you go, Mr. Zablyanov. Second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As regards the proposed amendments to the Constitution, sufficient arguments have been put forward specifically in terms of the part concerning appropriateness, in terms of the changes concerning the justice system. Clearly, there is no professional argument to support what is being done. It is also clear that the argument which guild to be present in a collective body bears a medieval character, as our society has long been not built on the basis of the guilds, but I would like to dwell on the positions of the political parties that supported these changes. Colleagues from "Ataka" who pass for opposition today supported constitutional changes, with the exception of their leader. [[Noise and lines.]] This does not disturb the ruling majority, which otherwise is a serious opponent of this political formation. Members of the "Attack" voted together with the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, confirming and demonstrating a serious coalition. Dear colleagues, this Constitution and the changes you have taken serve only to create political coalitions. You do not want to change the Constitution in such a way that it creates those prerequisites for a change in the judiciary system that leads to those goals for which you are responsible, and so do we. This change aimed to demonstrate that a majority is formed in the Bulgarian Parliament, which is moving towards some reforms. You're not moving towards anything! But you're not moving towards anything! You will create another change from which nothing will come, you will create tensions in the judicial sphere, and on top of that you will try to use the political moment. The result will not be substantial, but at the same time you have accepted support from political parties to which you are questioning the right to belong to Atlantic values. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Third negative vote? I won't. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the word is the People's Representative Hussein Hafuzov for a declaration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, dear fellow citizens! We live in days not only troubled and filled with tension and uncertainty, but also saturated with holidays. Recently, those belonging to the holy faith of Christ honored the Birth of the Holy Virgin Mary. The Jews ask for forgiveness and take account of Yum Kippur's holiday. Just yesterday, we greeted each other with an anniversary of independent Bulgaria and here I am before you today to give warmest and warmest wishes to fellow MPs and all Bulgarian citizens who profess Islam, as well as the entire world Islamic community with the upcoming celebration of Kurban Bayram. A tradition that brings its spiritual breeze from the ancestor Abraham the ancestor of the heavenly monotheistic religions Judaism, Christianity and Islam. This is an occasion for us to look again for our common and unifying and to overcome division and hatred. I wish Muslims and all Bulgarian citizens health and prosperity, achieved with thought, labor and spiritual faith! Let us be creative, living, and peaceful! It turns out that peace is a good and an achievement that must be safeguarded and stored at all costs, although often with its demonic interests, the human race is the cause of the bloodshed and misfortunes of its neighbor. I maintain and declare that we Muslims in Bulgaria, but not only have we always understood and accepted Islam in its ethimological meaning of peace, the Muslim as a peacemaker, dedicated to God's command and all the people of the world as servants of God, deserved happiness, respect and happiness. Tomorrow begins the four-day holiday of Kurban Bayram, which is characterized by a request of mutual forgiveness, charity and rich tables shared with close relatives, friends and needy. Tomorrow morning, the mosques will be filled with Muslims who will call on God to call on him to protect us and admit that we are insufficient and could not cope with the challenges and hardships without his precious help. I call on the Muslims in these bright days to send prayerful words to the Most High Artist about the wellbeing, wellbeing and success of our country Bulgaria, to continue to build our common beautiful home, to follow the traditions and to develop the European universal values based on our common achievements. The festival is an occasion to look into ourselves, our neighbor and our distant one, to find something of ourselves in him and something of ourselves. Trials of this kind can be sought in the trends we call a crisis a refugee crisis, a Ukrainian crisis, a social crisis, an economic crisis, a moral crisis, a terrorist threat causing a security crisis and so on. It is in the spirit of our tradition to share our sadness and celebration, to lend our hand and to overcome each other with much wisdom, love and competence difficulties. No crisis can be greater and more overwhelming than the strong will of man and the unity that makes power. Finally, to quote once again the one who knows more about us than we do and left us the following covenant: "God does not look neither in your appearance nor in your possession, but he looks at your heart and your deeds. The most beloved and nearest to the Almighty on the day of reckoning is the man who is a just ruler, and the most hated and distant from the Almighty on the day of judgment is the unjust ruler. Allah is pleased with those of you who do your work, deeds, and duties diligently and conscientiously. Is there a word and a call that sounds more patriotic and patriotic, dear colleagues?! Happy Thanksgiving! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Hafuzov. I believe that there is hardly any MP who will not join the messages you have sent from the stands. Happy Thanksgiving!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u67	Honourable Members, we are now moving to the second item on the agenda: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEEDING PROCEEDINGS FOR PROCEDURAL CONDITIONS AND RESTRUCTURING CANDIDATES FOR A PRESIDENT AND FOUR MEMBERS OF THE FISCAL COUNCIL, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND HEARING OF CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION OF BUDGET AND FINLANDS AS WELL AS THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTION. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the importer. Mrs. Stoyanova, please present the report and the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Draft Decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for President and four members of the Fiscal Council, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly At a meeting held on 17 September 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed procedural rules for holding a public procedure under art. 89 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the election of President and Members of the Fiscal Council. The adoption of procedural rules is necessary in relation to the Law on the Fiscal Council and automatic corrective mechanisms, which in art. 7 provides for the National Assembly to elect a Chair and members of the Fiscal Council after a public procedure. After the discussion, the Committee on Budget and Finance with 14 votes for the Council, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to examine and adopt the following draft decision: "Project" DECISION adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for Chairman and four members of the Fiscal Council, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance and the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for Chairman and four members of the Fiscal Board, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly I. Offering candidates for Chairman and Members of the Board and submitting their documents 1. Proposals for a Chair and members of the Fiscal Board shall be made by parliamentary groups or by MPs. The proposals shall be submitted in writing to the Committee on Budget and Finance through the President of the National Assembly within 7 days of the adoption of the Rules of Procedure by the National Assembly. 2. Proposals for a Chair and members of the Fiscal Board shall be accompanied by written reasons which justify the good professional reputation of the applicant concerned. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: (a) written consent of the applicant according to the model (s) of Annex 1 to the Decision; (b) a detailed CV; (c) certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for completed higher economic education with a minimum degree of education and qualification "Master"; (d) a criminal record; (e) documents demonstrating that the applicant fulfils the requirement of professional experience in the field of economic analysis and/or management of public finances for at least 10 years; (e) a statement in the form of a template of Annex 2 to the Decision that there are no circumstances under art. 8, para. 2, p. 2 - 4 of the Law on Fiscal Council and automatic corrective mechanisms. II. Public disclosure of documents 1. The submitted proposal together with the documents attached to it shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly without delay, but not later than 7 days before the hearing. 2. The publication of the proposal and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. 3. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations, but not later than three days before the hearing of the applicant, may submit opinions to the Budget and Finance Committee on the applicant, including questions to be asked. 4. The media may send questions to the Committee on Budget and Finance to the candidate to be asked. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 5. The opinions and questions are sent by post to the city of Sofia, Mt. "Knyaz Alexander I" No 1, Budget and Finance Committee, or by e-mail: budget@parliament.bg. The opinions and questions are published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly, subject to the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Hearing of candidates 1. Before hearing the proposed candidates, the Budget and Finance Committee shall verify the documents submitted and whether the applicant concerned complies with the requirements for the post for which it is proposed. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. The candidates shall be submitted by the importers of the proposals in alphabetical order to the names of the candidates for Chairman and to the members within two minutes of a candidate. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Personal presentation of the candidate and of his concept of the activities of the Fiscal Council in view of the position for which he has been asked up to 10 minutes per candidate. 5. The Committee on Budget and Finance shall hold debates on the proposals made. The Members of the National Assembly shall place their questions separately to the candidates for the Chair and to the candidates for members in alphabetical order of the first names of the candidates within two minutes of the Member of the National Assembly for a candidate. Upon completion of the questions asked to the candidate concerned by all Members of the National Assembly, the applicant shall be responsible within 10 minutes. 6. The President of the Budget and Finance Committee shall set out the questions of the persons referred to in Article in summary. 89, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to which no reply has been received. Reply to the candidate concerned within 10 minutes. 7. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 8. The Commission shall draw up within the meaning of art. 89, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a report from the hearing in which the candidates are represented. If several candidates for one position have been heard, the Budget and Finance Committee shall draw up a report from the hearing of the candidates and submit it to the National Assembly. The report shall be accompanied by a draft decision to select each candidate for the relevant position in the Fiscal Council. IV. Election of President and Members of the Fiscal Council of the National Assembly 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. Each candidate shall be represented by the applicant within two minutes. 4. Discussions shall be held on the application under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. 5. The National Assembly shall elect the President and the four members of the Fiscal Council separately. 6. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for one position, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 7. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the House shall be elected. 8. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 9. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. Two Annexes - Annex 1 and Annex 2 to the Decision, representing declarations from applicants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Dear colleagues, debate regime. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are in principle in favour of the proposals made, but also to note that the same conversation has to be held several times with regard to the selection of different bodies by the National Assembly. I draw attention to Section I, Section I, to the 7-day period required. Someone might say we're at a funny thing about forming the Fiscal Council, and that's true. At the same time, however, the choice of this body is not linked to the expiry of any mandates. If there is no prejudice and willingness to conduct a public procedure in competitive terms, I believe that this period should be at least two weeks. Again, if someone is not believed to have been promised a participation in this body and he is waiting only to adopt the rules in order to submit the documents and expect the choice. I am making two editorial proposals: in Section I, point 1 They are not only procedures for the MPs themselves, so we should start implementing this practice. Right now, this is a very appropriate case, because it is about a body that will be elected for the first time by the National Assembly, which has plenty of time to submit proposals, to hold debates, and ultimately to hold a successful choice. I ask that these two proposals be voted on separately because one concerns the duration of the period and the other concerns the moment from which this period starts. I have already argued why this should not be just an act of adoption of the decision today, but the moment of publication of this decision in the Official Journal, which is considered equally accessible to all potential addressees of this parliamentary act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u71	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Rite-shaped observations? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Stoilov, you're right in principle. However, there are arguments against this proposal. Of course, the most important argument refers to the case in question. The idea was to form the Fiscal Council so that we get his opinion on the 2016 Budget. Of course, this is not fatal at all. With or without his opinion, we could manage for 2016. On the other hand, it is true that the Rules of the National Assembly provide for a 14-day period, but by decision this period may be bigger or smaller. After all, it is also a matter of decision of the National Assembly. However, I do not think that the candidates will appear following the Official Gazette and the publication of the decision in it. The fact that there will be a Fiscal Council is clear from the moment we started the debates on the Fiscal Council Act. I think it was no accident that the Presidency of the National Assembly had also sent to all parliamentary groups a reminder of which positions would be elected by the National Assembly and should follow the parliamentary groups to prepare for them. So from a purely formal point of view, all parliamentary groups and MPs should have long had to stop at their candidates and look forward to adopting the rules in order to present them and submit them to the National Assembly. Again, I am inclined to support your proposal for a 14-day period with the clear awareness that this will do the procedure of the Budget Act 2016 not under the rules of the Fiscal Council Act and we will not be able to get to know in advance the opinion of the people who will participate in the Fiscal Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Second line? I won't. Hole, Mr. Stoilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u74	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Stoyanova, to use the duplicate and to think that you are taking into account my proposal and recommendation, after I think that the greater weight of the arguments that I have presented is recognised. Bulgaria has formed the draft budget without the Fiscal Council for many years. I think it is more important to pay attention to the quality of this body, which is really both competent and relatively independent. I believe that this really gives us reason to support this reasonable......I do not call it a lengthy term. We do have basic information that such an organ is about to be formed. I believe that a more serious approach requires us to move within deadlines which, without delaying the procedure, will enable it itself to contribute to the formation of a body that has the qualities to fulfil the purpose which gives it the law. I hope that both your parliamentary group and the other MPs will support the proposals I have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u75	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. The word for speech has the People's Representative Metodi Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u76	Mr President, honourable Members, it has become a tradition in Parliament when such important bodies are elected, to make appropriate changes to the course of informed choices. This is an extremely important body and I think it is right, as we did for the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council, as you will see the Commission on Internal Security and Public Order, and the Commission for the Control of the Services made the relevant laws for the election of the Heads of State Agency of Intelligence, the Office of Military Information and the National Security Service of the President, it is right here also to insert texts to enable the candidates for this body to be checked in advance by the Commission (in short will call it) on the files of belonging to the Security Services of the People's Republic of Bulgaria and to be known at the time of their choice here at the Assembly. This is an informed choice which, as MPs, we are obliged to ask for in order to make it clear that the candidates who will appear and those who will be elected will not have any dependencies that will influence the decisions they will have to discuss in this body. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, I propose in Section II. 3, a new sentence finally with the following text:............................. is making a request.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u77	Give it to me in writing, please. [[The National Representative Metodi Andreev submitted the proposal to President Kiril Tsochev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u78	I believe that this is our duty and we do not see anything wrong with the disclosure of both Bulgarian citizens and we as MPs for possible such belongings. I think it's the right thing to do when choosing all organs. By the way, I would like to tell you that the people of this body generally come into the circle of persons who the Committee on Files must check without, however, being explicitly mentioned. It's better to know in advance about their possible belongings and to reflect on their choices. Everyone can vote by conscience here. Someone might like that. Someone might not like it. It is better then to know it than to learn it subsequently after being selected in the relevant authority. That's the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u79	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u80	Mr. Metodi Andreev, you need to fit into a special member to know who the credit millionaires are. Secondly, involved in mass or working-manager privatization, which ended with the bankruptcy of the relevant real assets, which were created by this people for 45 years, and which your political power, I mean, your former political power, not GERB party, because you belonged to the Union of Democratic Forces, if I am not mistaken, to the Democrats for Strong Bulgaria, carried out the criminal working-manager privatization and, of course, actively involved in mass privatization. So don't divert attention from topics on which you are painfully fixed, but forget the most important of all the credit millionaires. Remember an initiative by former MP Aleksandar Karakachanov, representative of the Zelena Party, who managed to legally export a list of credit millionaires to the Republic of Bulgaria ten years ago. So when you propose this, Mr. Metodi Andreev, fill in what I'm offering you, or I'll fill it in with a proposal. Otherwise, I will consider that you are once again selectively imposing some fictional scarecrows with which you should actually conceal the responsibility of your former political power, precisely for this criminal economic transition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u81	Thank you. I don't understand. Do you have an editorial change or not, Mr. Enchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u82	I'll do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u83	Do, please, in writing. Second line, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u84	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Andreev, it is much easier to fight the ghosts of the past than it is to fight the problems of the present, because the topic you constantly reproduce, much more I do not say that there is no relation to today, but much more to the past. I recommend you with the same passion and consistency to subtract all other dependencies that today have, I would say, even more important. There is nothing embarrassing and to accept your text, as I even believe that one of those people who falls within your category has all the qualities to be proposed as a member of the Fiscal Council. Unfortunately, he died a few days ago. I think these people can participate openly in this discussion because they have not hidden this fact, whether some of them will be announced or not, people who have worked for the Bulgarian state, for the Bulgarian intelligence. I don't know why you miss out on your suggestions to mention people who belong to different secret societies or who are in some external dependence. Last time you spoke on this topic again, but you are strictly fixed on State Security. If you want to look really brave and determined, expand the scope of your suggestions, so it doesn't look like you're just one person struggling, again I say, with demons from the past more than with the problems of the present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u85	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Third line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, last week we set a good precedent and I hope it becomes a tradition. Indeed, for such important appointments to be carried out in advance, so that there is an informed choice for the Members of the National Assembly for whom they vote. As mentioned then, I am sure that for some people this will be an advantage that the person was a collaborator of the former State Security (State Security), for us, on the right, obviously this is the exact opposite. That is to say, this is something that we do not accept, and we believe that people with such empathy and addictions cannot take up such senior government positions. Indeed, the law gives us this opportunity to carry out a preliminary inspection. Those appointments also fall within the scope of the so-called........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ So they're going through an additional procedure, which probably means it's gonna be a long time before the check is done. So I support my colleague Andreev's proposal. I think we can safely seize the opportunity to carry out such an inspection in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u87	That's not a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u88	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Andreev, you have the right to the back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u89	Officer Enchev...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u90	I'm gonna have to ask you no qualifiers. I'm giving you a first warning, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u91	Mr. Enchev...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u92	I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u93	Aren't you an officer? Why? There's nothing wrong with that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u94	Please, Mr. Andreev! We are not on the Committee for the Disclosure of Files, we are in the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u95	Mr. Enchev, I'm going to give you the back not for anything else, but to remind you of something. What you have proposed here is actually one of my suggestions that I shared with you the other day. Your political impotence and the inability to give birth to your ideas does not allow you what I have offered you to export it on your behalf to this National Assembly. Because it is very clear that what you propose will not be accepted. I mean, you're pre-destroying the idea that's at stake in what you said. This is not the suspension of SYRIZA policy, it is a serious matter with this authority, so very much please do not make such, to put it mildly, strange statements on behalf of an officer from the former State Security. As for what Mr. Stoilov suggests, this is important. Since I did not put it in a proposal, I suggest that we put in the appropriate place in these rules, which we will now adopt, a text to say in writing that they do not belong to the various secret societies of which Mr. Yanaki Stoilov is talking about. Which, last time we voted for the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council, was not accepted as a proposal. Now I'm saying it's a proposal. Let it be done in the appropriate order, put it in the appropriate place and also voted, because it is also very important. As for Mr. Stoilov, that these are ghosts from the past, I will only tell you the following factology: from four governors of the Bulgarian National Bank, three were proven agents of the Bulgarian State Security, right at the time when the dollar was managed by his course...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u96	You're way off topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u97	That's just what I'm saying. The other thing I'd like to remind you that this topic hasn't gone away, because once upon a time...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u98	I remind you that you're deviating from the subject and I'm going to take your word away.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u99	That's right on the subject, Mr. Chairman?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u100	I'm begging you! We are not the Committee for the Disclosure of Files, but we are in the National Assembly and we are debating procedural rules. You've given your editing and I don't give you the floor anymore.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u101	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u102	I'll take your word for it. Any other speeches, colleagues? There's a word for it, Mr. Martin Dimitrov. My fellow Members, I propose that we do not turn the debate on this issue around and go back three days with suspension and so on. I'm begging you!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u103	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a nice tradition for GERB MPs and the Reformation bloc to propose that, when it comes to choosing public positions, there should be a check for belonging to the State Security and the former services of the Communist regime. Because, again, I remind you that we felt extremely foolish that people should be selected and months later the Commission should come forward with an opinion on the Commission's files that a person was actually a collaborator of State Security. It is only right that when Parliament makes decisions, they should be as justified as possible. Here, I would set a limit that, after all, a number of other criteria can be added to these rules, and I have discussed this with colleagues so far, for tax liabilities paid; for whether the candidates are members of any community, so to call it, which may have a questionable character. But for me, let's put the boundaries and say so: it is a tradition now that GERB and the Reformation bloc every time it comes to public office, we should have a check of belonging to the services of the former State Security and stop there. Let's not overdo it. This is a reasoned decision, a reasoned opinion. You know, in the last 25 years, there hasn't been a case of major public manipulation that doesn't involve at least one NSA agent, there isn't one. So this proposal of ours, I think, is logical, protected. I would finally tell you the following thing, my fellow Members: if we have already voted for other posts, but for the Fiscal Council we say that this will not be accepted, there would be a logical doubt that someone intends to propose precisely such a candidate. And since I am sure, I know your objectivity and I know that you will not do so, I recommend that we support all the proposals made by colleague Metodi Andreev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u104	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. A line? I would like to remind you that an editorial proposal has already been made by the MP Metodi Andreev, which I will read and put to the vote, so please do not divert the debate in the direction of the files and so on. I'm begging you! Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? I won't. In that case, I beg the Quaestors to invite the Members of the National Assembly for entry into voting mode. Honourable Members, we are voting for a draft decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for President and four members of the Fiscal Council, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly with the added two declarations read together with draft decisions. But before that we have made several editorial proposals. The first in the order of submission is the MP Yanaki Stoilov. In point 1 of Section I, a period of 7 days shall be replaced by a period of 14 days. There is one more proposal that we will vote separately. Voting regime, honourable Members. Vote 105 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. The second proposal of the People's Representative Yanaki Stoilov is: the word from the adoption is replaced by the publication of the Rules of Procedure in the Official Journal. Isn't that right, Mr. Stoilov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u105	From the publication in the Official Journal
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u106	From the publication of the Rules of Procedure in the Official Journal. Voting mode for the replacement of the adoption by the publication in the Official Journal. They voted 106 MPs: 38, against 13, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. The third proposal is by the MP Metodi Andreev. I'll try, Mr. Andreev, to read it, since you wrote it very badly. As a doctor of prescription, you wrote it. [[Laughter]] An offer shall be made in art. 2, after t. 3 a new sentence: The applicant makes a request up to about 15 letters, but they will become clear which ones are under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army to establish possible belonging of the candidates and to announce the results of the check. I was able to read it, wasn't I, Mr. Andreev? Honourable Members, voting regime. We are voting on the proposal of Metodi Andreev, after that. 3 Add a new sentence. Vote 94 MPs: 80 against 4, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. I have to put a new member to the vote. Mr. Enchev, I can't determine exactly where the member should be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u107	Second Roman after second point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u108	One more time, second Roman after second point? National Representative Velizar Enchev offers in II. "Public disclosure of documents" after second point to be added: "To check the presence of the person who is a candidate for membership in secret societies "Mason's Lodge" and a list of credit millionaires." Voting regime, honourable Members. They voted 97 MPs: 13 against 42, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Enchev. Proposed revoting your motives?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u109	I am proposing a re-voting because it is extremely important that there are no Freemasons, secret societies and credit millionaires. Even more so, many people have not entered the room. I call on all MPs present in the couloirs of parliament: if they really insist on not attending in this very important body...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u110	Please, Mr. Enchev, it's become clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u111	...credit millionaires, please enter the room and vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u112	It's clear, Mr. Enchev. Thank you. Dear colleagues, re-vote. The proposal is from the MP Velizar Enchev. They voted 94 MPs: 15 against 54, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting on the draft decision to adopt procedural rules with the corrections made, namely: Public disclosure of documents. Second member. The proposal we voted on in this House and adopted by a majority to include the text of the MP Metodi Andreev. We are voting on the draft decision on procedural rules with the two corrections adopted in this House, both declarations, as annexed to the decision. Vote 108 MPs: 94 against 1, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Thank you, colleagues. We move to the third point of the National Assembly's Work Programme, namely: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PROTECTING EARTHS. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Reports have been received from the committees to which it has been assigned. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead, then the Committees on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, on Legal Affairs and Energy. Mr. Hristov, please read the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before I proceed to the report, please, on the basis of art. 46. ) (a.k.a. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to put to a vote in the Chamber Mr. Stilian Mitev
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u114	Honourable Members, voting regime for admission to the Chamber. Vote 77 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite the guests. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] The Technical Secretary is normal, isn't he? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] It's a rethink mode. A proposal, Mr. Hristov. [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, colleagues, it was green on the dashboard, but the quorum is 76.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u115	I suggest we rethink the proposal, given that a lot of colleagues have entered the Chamber, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u116	Re-vote mode, guys. [[Noise and lines.]] I invite the Quaestors to invite the coworkers from the National Assembly's couloirs. 88 MPs voted: 86, none, abstention 2. Now the offer is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite the guests.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u117	Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a bill amending and supplementing the Law for the conservation of agricultural land, No 502-01-54, imported by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2015 The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 9 September In 2015, at which he discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land, No 502-01-54, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2015. The Commission's work was attended by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Dr. Tsvetan Dimitrov, Deputy Minister, Mr. Stoil Dudulov. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Dimitrov. The bill provides for the following changes. Consistency of agricultural and forest land rehabilitation projects will be carried out by the Minister of Agriculture and Food, the Minister of Agriculture and Food, the Minister of Energy, and for insurance, landfill and other waste depots by the Minister of Environment and Water. It will not require the validation of underground and overhead routes for the design and change of the purpose of agricultural land for the construction of underground linear objects of the technical infrastructure, as well as of adjacent facilities located on the terrain where their built and adjacent area is up to 15 sq. m. Without a procedure for validating a site or a design route, the change in the purpose of agricultural land will take place when it is provided for with a common development plan and in the cases of concession granted by a decision of the Council of Ministers. It is proposed to narrow down the scope of the sites for which at least two sites or routes are designated to provide transport access. An opinion from the Commission on energy and water regulation will be required for the construction and extension of electricity production sites from renewable energy sources. Investors class "A" under the Investment Promotion Act will not pay a fee for changing the purpose of agricultural land. The text regulating the method of spending receipts in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is deleted as it is contrary to the Public Finance Act. The composition of the Commission for agricultural land is changed and the scope of its powers is extended. The Commission will be able to postpone the change of destination for agricultural land when questions arise for clarification and will be able to allow temporary use of agricultural land in certain cases. The Commission's decisions on the validation of sites and design routes will be subject to a challenge before the Supreme Administrative Court. For construction carried out on agricultural land without changing its purpose, the owner of the site will not pay the value of the land but only the corresponding penalty and the double amount of the fee for change of purpose. When construction is carried out on state or municipal land, after payment of these amounts, the owner of the site will be able to acquire ownership of the land in order laid down in the Rules for the Implementation of the Law. The Committee on Agriculture and Food has received an opinion from the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology (NIMH) with a number of proposals for amendments, outside the scope of the Law and the opinion of the Institute for Soiling, Agrotechnologies and Plant Protection (NIMH) in the structure of the Agricultural Academy, which objects to the proposals made by the NIMH. In its opinion, the Ministry of Energy supports the bill in principle and makes a proposal for editing one of the texts, which will be discussed between first and second readings. In the subsequent discussion, it was underlined that the Law as a whole aims to alleviate the regime of validation of sites and design routes where this concerns underground and overhead linear objects of the technical infrastructure which do not seriously affect the way the land is being processed, as well as for large investment projects and in the case of a common construction plan or concession provided by the Council of Ministers. Following the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 15 votes for.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u118	Thank you, Mr. Christov. With the report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, Mrs. Kotseva will introduce us. Here you go, Mrs. Kotseva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u119	Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land, No 502-01-54, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 10 September 2015, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land, No 502-01-54, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July. This Decision shall In the meeting of the Commission took part Mr. Stoil Dudulov, Head of Department of the Directorate of Land Relations and Comassation at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, who presented the bill on behalf of the importer. The main part of the changes in the bill are aimed at easing administrative procedures in changing the purpose of agricultural land. For the construction of underground linear objects of the technical infrastructure as well as of adjacent facilities located on the terrain when their built and adjacent area is up to 15 sq. m. no validation of underground and overhead routes will be required for the design and change of the purpose of agricultural land. The change in the purpose of agricultural land for non-farming needs provided for by a common design plan, as well as in the case of a concession granted by a decision of the Council of Ministers, will be carried out without a procedure for validating a site or design route. It is also envisaged that, in the designated cases under the Investment Promotion Act, investors should not pay a fee for changing the purpose of agricultural land. It is also proposed to narrow down the scope of the sites for which at least two sites or routes are designated to provide transport access. An opinion from the Commission on energy and water regulation will be required for the construction and extension of electricity production sites from renewable energy sources. The bill provides for hypotheses in which the Commission for Agricultural Land will be able to postpone the change of destination for agricultural land when questions arise for clarification and will be able to allow temporary use of agricultural land in certain cases. It is proposed that the Commission's decisions on the validation of sites and design routes, similar to its decisions on change of purpose, be subject to challenge before the Supreme Administrative Court. The provisions relating to the construction of agricultural land have been revised without changing its purpose. In these cases, the owner of the site is proposed not to pay the value of the land but only the corresponding penalty and the double amount of the fee for change of purpose. Where construction is carried out on state or municipal land, the owner of the site will be able to acquire ownership of the land after payment of the relevant penalty and the double amount of the fee for change of purpose in order laid down in the Rules for the application of the law. During the discussion the MPs supported the proposed changes. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 19 votes -...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Kotseva. Before we proceed with the report of the Legal Committee, I beg for silence in this Chamber! Let's move the debate on other issues outside the room. Who will read the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land, No 502-01-54 At its meeting on 15 July 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law. Members of parliament Emil Dimitrov, Chavdar Georgiev, Desislava Atanasova and Danail Kirilov took part in the discussion. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs, with 7 votes for the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Lands, proposed that the National Assembly support the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Lands.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. The latest report is from the Energy Commission. Here you are, Mr. Nikolov, in summary as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land, No 502-01-54, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July This Decision shall At its regular meeting on 16 July 2015, the Energy Commission examined and discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Conservation Act, No 502-01-54, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2015. At the meeting of the committee attended: from the Ministry of Energy: Stanislav Stankov The bill was presented by representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, stating the reasons for the proposed Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land. It was also proposed that the validation of sites should be abolished when common planning was in force, which is related to the amendments to the law, regarding the adoption of common planning plans of municipalities for the territory of Bulgaria. As the procedure for changing the purpose of agricultural land is staged, the following proposal shall be made: the appeal with regard to the decisions on land change and the decisions on the validation of sites to be appealed before the Supreme Administrative Court, thereby uniformising the procedure and the institution of decision. An edit shall also be introduced in art. 23 of the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land, which requires an opinion from the Commission on energy and water regulation on the need for the construction of plants for the production of electricity from renewable energy sources when the purpose of agricultural land is changed. There followed a discussion between the MPs on the proposed size of the square, on which will extend the ease of regime in § 3 of the ZAZZ. The engineering facilities for the transmission of electricity are of greater size and do not fall within the proposed scope. The Members of the National Assembly generally support the substance of the proposed text, but make recommendations on increasing the size of the area on which the relief regime will take place. After the debates held, the Committee on Energy of 14 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and without abstention, supported the draft and expressed the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, at first reading, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land, No 502-01-54, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u124	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Dear colleagues, an importer's opinion? It won't be made obvious. We're going into debate mode. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to stress that, both in the Commission and in the Chamber, we will support the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land, given that the envisaged changes in the Law create significant business facilities, reduce the administrative burden, in general the legislation makes the necessary steps really in Bulgaria for business to be able to work on turnovers that create jobs and provide national income, respectively the committees stressed what the changes proposed in the Law are. Some of them relate to facilities for natural and legal persons in the conduct of a procedure for changing the purpose of agricultural land for the construction of facilities at linear facilities of technical infrastructure, also for the construction of routes which do not have a significant impact on agricultural land and do not change its functional purpose. It is also positive that the change in the way the Commission works, which makes a change of purpose, with the inclusion of representatives and of the scientific community. So far, they've been shut down. We are talking about representatives of the Institute for Soiling, Agrotechnics and Plant Protection "Nikola Pushkarov" who will have the opportunity with their expertise to improve the work of the Commission and will create a prerequisite for adopting decisions that the Commission can protect in disputes accordingly. It is also important to emphasise that the Law enables the Commission to take decisions in electricity production sites from renewable energy sources, to require an opinion of the regulator regarding the possibility of accession. I would like to make a note here that so far there have been a number of opportunities in the Law for the Commission to refuse a change of purpose for land intended for the construction of renewable energy sources, but, basically, it has rarely happened to refuse precisely such infrastructure facilities, and at least it is written in the Law that after the sixth category it should also be the land on which such plants should be built. In practice, this was not done, at the very least because at some point the categories for agricultural land disappeared and had to be professionally and administratively defined, which created quite serious problems. You, traveling along highways and roads, see how many locations such photovoltaic plants are built on land that is by no means of sixth category up. What disturbs us in the Bill, and accordingly we will make the necessary proposals between first and second readings, is related to the proposal in the Bill to drop the fee for changing the purpose of investors registered under the Investment Promotion Act. For us, first of all, there is not enough justification for this measure. At some point we are really relieving investors in terms of access to resources in the country, we are talking about municipal property, about the state fund, but also not paying fees, we think this will create quite serious problems compared to those who are not strategic investors, will put them in a much more privileged way towards the rest of the business. For us this is an unreasonable decision, at least because the reasons of the bill are not stated clearly enough and categorically what are the objectives and, respectively, which investors we are talking about. They are not so many in Bulgaria. Apart from that, the theme of the conservation of agricultural land is much wider. The proposal of the Bill only to reduce the administrative burden quite limits the opportunities and policy that the state has to conduct in the area of conservation of agricultural land. Today, I read that the Council of Ministers has adopted the updated National Program for Sustainable Land Management and Combating Deserting for the period 2014 - 2020, which means that this Law should be much more comprehensive and at the same time enjoy all the scientific potential it has in the country. These are the institutes of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, these are the institutes of the Agricultural Academy, which should give expert opinions in order to prevent and not to cover risks that have already emerged as a result of a really incorrect attitude to the human factor in terms of land use. So between first and second readings, we will make proposals related not only to the specific Bill and the scope it offers, but also much wider, from the point of view of really creating a prerequisite for agricultural land in Bulgaria to be protected in such a way that the next generations can manage it for production and for the realization of agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. A line? I won't. Anyone else who wants to make a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u127	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! GERB's parliamentary group will support the submitted bill. Two are the main changes aimed at the proposed Bill. First, in order to alleviate the natural and legal persons and reduce the administrative burden, it is proposed that a change in the purpose of agricultural land for non-farming needs with a planned common construction plan as well as for plots dedicated to concession by a decision of the Council of Ministers should be carried out without a procedure for validation of a site or design route. This is a procedure that takes investors and the state administration between three and six months and we admire the proposed change by the Council of Ministers. As you said, Professor. Bachvarova, really this change will lead to the relief of business, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, of the state administration. The second important change in the so submitted bill is that without changing the purpose of agricultural land constructions, technical facilities related to technical infrastructure can be carried out up to 15 sq. m, which constructions do not change the functionality of agricultural land so as to preserve all its properties. We believe that these two changes will be adopted at second reading with full consensus from the House, because they are long expected by business as a whole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. Third line? I won't. Mr. Ahmedov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This bill governs the protection from damage and the restoration and improvement of the fertility of agricultural land and lays down the conditions and procedures for changing their purpose. I support the proposed changes. In our view, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, any reduction in administrative burdens for natural and legal persons in the country, when it does not harm the state, should be supported. In their main part, the proposed changes aim and anticipate this is precisely the kind of relief of administrative procedures when changing the purpose of agricultural land, which will have a beneficial effect for both the administration and investors. Another no less consequence of the amendment will prevent delays in the construction of technical infrastructure sites. It is in this direction that changes will not require the validation of the underground and ground routes for the design and change of the purpose of agricultural land for the construction of underground linear sites of the technical infrastructure, as well as adjacent facilities located on the terrain where the built-in and their adjacent area is up to 15 sq.m. In the light of the above, the Commission concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. In another part of the amendments some of the provisions of the Law are refined. Such are the removal of members who are contrary to the Public Finance Act, the amendment of art. 39 governing the composition of the Commission of Agricultural Land, which provides for the removal of the participation of a representative of the Ministry of Finance and the inclusion of a representative of the Institute of Soiling. As a positive element, I would also note the new provisions establishing powers for the Commission on agricultural land to postpone the change of destination of agricultural land. 9, and discuss requests to authorise temporary use of agricultural land. Because the proposed amendments synchronise the regulation relating to the conservation of agricultural land, the provisions of the legislation in force and introduce a lighter procedure regime, we will vote for the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u130	Thank you, Mr. Ahmedov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs to the plenary. We're closing the debate. Honourable Members, I put to the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land imported by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2015. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. By a full majority, the bill was adopted in the first vote. We move on to the next item on the agenda in the National Assembly's Work Programme, namely: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR THE BULGARIAN TELEGRAPHIC AGENTIA. It was introduced by Polina Karastoyanova and a group of MPs on 15 May 2015. I see that under importers have signed representatives of seven parliamentary groups, so it is clearly unanimously supported. Here you are, Mrs. Karastoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u131	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, on the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose that Mr. Borislav Chalakov be admitted to the Chamber "Deputy Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u132	Voting regime, fellow Members, for admission to the Chamber. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. I ask the Quaestors to invite the Deputy Director General of the BTA into the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u133	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I suggest to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, No 554-01-92, submitted by Polina Karastoyanova and a group of MPs on 15 May 2015. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media held at 4 June 2015, a Draft Law amending the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency Act, No 554-01-92, submitted by Polina Karastoyanova and a group of MPs on 15 May 2015. The meeting was attended by the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency: Mr. Maxim Minchev General Director, Mrs. Evelina Andreeva Secretary General, and Mr. Dancho Antonov Financial Director. The bill on behalf of the importer was presented by the MP Polina Karastoyanova. In accordance with the requirements of art. 16 of the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, its Director-General, presented for discussion at the National Assembly reports on its activities, including financial statements no later than 31 October In practice, the report of the first half is part of the annual report of the independent national information institute of the Republic of Bulgaria. The bill proposes to drop the Agency's report on the first half of the year. The presentation of an annual BTA report to the National Assembly for the previous year, including a financial statement, shall be retained. The same approach is taken when presenting the reports/reports of the National Health Insurance Fund, the Financial Supervision Commission, the Communications Regulation Commission, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and others. The proposed amendment of the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency does not require additional funds. The Members of the National Assembly unanimously agreed on the opinion after the adoption of the First Voting Bill to be adopted in a second vote in one sitting in accordance with art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. After a vote, the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously proposed to the National Assembly with 14 votes to support the Law amending the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, No 554-01-92, submitted by Polina Karastoyanova and a group of MPs on 15 May 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Karastoyanova. I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? We're closing the debate. I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs to the Chamber, we move on to voting mode. I put to the first vote a bill amending the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, No 554 01 92, submitted by Polina Karastoyanova and a group of MPs on 15 May 2015. Dear colleagues, please vote. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. It's accepted unanimously. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u135	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, on the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the bill be voted on at second vote in this sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u136	A reverse opinion? I won't. Please vote, honourable Members. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Here you are, Mrs. Karastoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I offer to your attention the title:........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u138	We vote, fellow Members, the title at second reading. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The title is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u139	I'm the only one. Article 16 is amended as follows: Art. 16. (1) The Director-General of the BTA shall submit to the National Assembly an annual report on its activities, including a financial statement, for discussion no later than 30 April. (2) The specialized Standing Committee of the National Assembly shall examine the report under para. 1 and prepare a report on it, which shall be dealt with by the National Assembly. (3) The National Assembly shall discuss and accept the report under para. 1. (4) The decision of the National Assembly concerning the adoption of the report under para. 1 for the activity of BTA is promulgated in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u140	Honourable Members, please vote on paragraphs 1 to 4. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The law was passed at second reading. Congratulations, Mrs. Karastoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u142	Thank you. Moving on to: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR PRE-SCHOOL AND SCHOOL MOVEMENT. I recall, colleagues, in the second vote were adopted by art. 133, which becomes Art. Art. 135, to art. 154, which becomes Art. 156 included. The report of Section II is to be made on the evaluation and approval of projects of cognitive books, textbooks and textbooks. This is page 185 on the report. Here you are, Mrs. Damyanova, with the bill at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u143	"Department II".................................................................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. Article 155. A proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 155 the following changes are made: (a) in para. 1 to drop the item. 1, t. 2, p. 3, p. 4 et c. 5; (b) in para. 4 t. 1 after teaching aids to add the expression of the state educational standard for the content of education. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Stephanie Mihailova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 155, which becomes Art. 157: Art. 157. (1) A procedure for assessing and approving projects of cognitive books, textbooks and study kits shall be opened by order of the Minister of Education and Science: 1. after validation of new curricula for school education, and after adoption or change of state education standard for pre-school education, 2. when none of the approved textbooks is distributed for the beginning of the school year; 3. where none of the publishers of approved cognitive books, textbooks and study kits have applied for inclusion in the list under art. 162; 4. when no cognitive book has been approved in the course of a procedure, none of the textbooks and study kits respectively; 5. in the cases referred to in art. 161 where no change has been made or has not been approved in any of the approved cognitive books in any of the textbooks and study sets respectively. (2) In the order under para. 1 The Minister of Education and Science shall set a deadline for the submission of the draft of the cognitive books, textbooks and study kits, which shall not be less than 12 months from the date of the order under para. 1. (3) The projects of cognitive books shall be assessed for compliance with the requirements of the State Educational Standard for textbooks, cognitive books and study aids. (4) The projects of a textbook and of a study kit shall be assessed in two stages: 1. the first stage of assessment of compliance with the requirements of the state educational standard for cognitive books, textbooks and teaching aids; 2. the second stage of assessment of their ability to apply in school............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u144	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Section II, as proposed by an importer and supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The name of Section II is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: 7 against 55, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for art. 155, which is edited by the Commission and becomes art. 157 in her report. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The text for art. 157 on the Commission report was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u145	Article 156. A proposal from MP Stanislav Stanilov. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 156, para. The second sentence is created: On the basis of the evaluations received, the projects of textbooks and study kits are classified in descending order. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: Art. B. The Court of Justice of the European Union ("the Court of Justice') of the European Union ("the The second stage of the evaluation shall be carried out on the basis of the choice of a textbook or a training set in general educational subjects according to art. 79 and three draft textbooks or study kits for the other subjects made at each school where the relevant school subject is studied in the relevant class. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 156, which becomes Art. 158: Art. 158. (1) The evaluation of the projects of a cognitive book, as well as the first stage of the evaluation of the projects of a textbook or a study kit, shall be carried out by evaluators appointed by the Minister of Education and Science, in agreement with the Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. (2) The second stage of the evaluation of the drafts of a textbook or of a study kit shall be carried out for projects meeting the requirements of the state educational standard for cognitive books, textbooks and textbooks, and shall be carried out in each school by the teachers teaching the subject at the relevant stage of education. Article 157. A proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 157, which becomes art. 159: Art. 159. (1) No valuer who is: 1. the author or publisher of a draft cognitive book, textbook or study kit submitted in the evaluation procedure; 2. an author or publisher of an approved textbook or a study set on the relevant subject for the relevant class, or a cognitive book used in the pre-school and school education system; 3. in contractual relations with the author or publisher at the time of the procedure; 4. in a hierarchic relationship of guidance and control with the author of the work, which is offered as a draft of a cognitive book, a textbook or a study kit or its publisher; 5. is a participant in any quality in the creation of the work offered as a design of a cognitive book, a textbook or a study kit; 6. husband of the author or publisher or their relative on a straight line, without limitation, and on a competitive line or by matchmaking to the fourth degree including. (2) The absence of the circumstances under para. 1 shall be certified by a declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u146	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u147	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! C ) (a.k.a. 2 of art. 156 is proposed for each subject to have an unlimited number of textbooks, provided that they meet state educational requirements. What's that supposed to mean? That 45 thousand Bulgarian teachers will have to choose the option by which they teach. They are doing so now, but under a restriction that is available in the Law up to now "in the framework of three textbooks. As we have also discussed in the Commission this issue, we draw your attention to the problem of objective choices. What will they be? These criteria may be subjective and dependent. Subjective because the professional, aesthetic and other tastes and beliefs of different teachers will be different. Dependents, because now attempts at pressure and temptation can be increased by interested publishers and distributors. In order to choose teachers and schools their desired textbooks between the proposed and approved by the Ministry of Education and Science, many interests will also be intertwined in this choice. Perhaps no small part of them will be selfless. Who loses and who wins with such a variety of textbooks? He will lose the country that will have to make greater expenses for copyrights, publishers and distributors. They will lose teachers who will often have to evaluate and choose between the x number of textbooks containing different positions and interpretations of the same facts and events by different authors. They will also become subject to pressure from stakeholders. They will lose students who at this age will hardly understand what is true and what is right. They will be difficult to learn the necessary knowledge in secondary school, and especially when applying to universities, because the specialists evaluating their student work at the university may have different views from those of the authors of the textbooks in which the relevant candidate students have studied at their school. They will also lose their parents because, as so far, they will have to help their children in this chaos of textbooks, in which they will find it difficult to navigate themselves. They will win the authors' collectives in textbooks because they will be able to participate with their sections in several groups, for several textbooks and will receive, naturally, higher remunerations. Publishers will win because they will issue an unlimited number of textbooks on each subject will make higher turnovers. They will also benefit distributors who will also distribute a larger number of textbooks in this situation. I want to give a few examples of what the situation is right now. Only from the approved for this year by Minister Tanev from 26 January textbooks, I will give you a few examples: four letters, four Chitans, six textbooks "Born end", four... by music, four in fine art, four in............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If we continue in larger classes we will see that where there is mandatory preparation and profiled, there are an even greater number of textbooks. In the IX class "Bulgarian language" "four," in literature "seven," in English "four," in informatics "nine," in information technology "five," and so on, that is to say, we have a total of 135 textbooks in force for the primary course, 128 in junior high and 231 textbooks in high school. If we have to briefly summarize the reference, it shows that the still existing Law on People's Education is being violated and there are more than three textbooks and what is proposed in para. 2 by importers, offers an unlimited number of textbooks and we will see if you accept this text, even more textbooks in the coming years. I will remind once again of the difficulties I spoke about at the beginning of my speech, many of the parents, the teachers said in all these discussions, when the new Bill was discussed, that the presence of a textbook would give a better opportunity for both parents and students and teachers, because so far the large number of textbooks has not helped improve quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. Do you have any lines? I won't. To speak, the people representative Milen Mihov. You have the floor, Assoc. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u149	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Our proposal, which concerns the issue of textbooks, is a question with a large public resonance, is slightly different. We propose to introduce one textbook for all general educational subjects and to allow for the choice of textbooks in all other preparations. What are our arguments besides the already presented arguments of the supporters of introducing a textbook on all subjects? Besides purely economic, apart from the purely emotional, we have another substantial argument that there is real mobility of students and teachers from one school to another school. And today is a reality when a student, for whatever reasons, and even a teacher, for any reason, for any reason, changed his school, went to training or work at another school, must already comply with the chosen textbook, and when this is applied to all studied subjects, it is an unwarranted expense of personal and public. That is why we propose to introduce a textbook of general education articles, which will solve this problem to a large extent. Next, this will enable the Ministry of Education and Science to control far more effectively, we are not talking about some unconstant examples from the textbooks that our society is familiar with, but even to correct and control the content, possible errors and gaps in the content of the textbooks. I think that our society is already ripe for the idea that, for example, a textbook on fifth grade history is good to have, a textbook in Bulgarian language, a textbook in mathematics and so on. I think that the ultimate supporters of liberalization of the textbook regime, the issuance of infinitely many textbooks, as long as they meet the standards, lead us in one direction which is difficult to apply to the Bulgarian conditions, which are difficult to apply to demographic and economic circumstances and factors in which the country develops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u150	Thank you, dear Assoc. Mihov. Do you have any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Stephanie Mikhailova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u151	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! It has long been clear that one of the essential issues on the Bill is the question of textbooks.. how many textbooks to be possible on a particular subject for a given class and how to define them. You have heard the proposals of our opponents. I'm not going to dwell on them in detail. Our proposal, as you have already understood, is that there is no limitation on the number of approved textbooks, to approve all textbooks for which the Ministry of Education and Science, through a committee of assessors, has judged that they meet the requirements. And, secondly, which the teachers have assessed that they have applied in the practice of the second stage of the evaluation procedure. We suggest teachers make their choice and choose from a number of textbooks which they should work on, and I very clearly want to say that each child will study naturally one textbook. This applies even to children within a single class, if not to all classes at a given stage. I will not redo the arguments that we have made at first reading and which we have said in the Commission, I will simply redefine the main reasons for our proposal. The first and most important argument is that the availability of many opportunities allows teachers to choose the most appropriate textbook for their students and their peculiarities, and this corresponds to our understanding that the focus of the educational system should be on the child and the student and that the educational system should take into account the individual characteristics of each child. Secondly, the variety of choices gives teachers opportunities to choose more suitable for their views and their style of teaching textbook. Thirdly, a very important regulation, such a regulation stimulates competition because it motivates more publishers and more authors to participate in the process because it gives them a real opportunity for market share, and it is a small one, and our belief is that competition maintains the quality and is an engine of progress. Fourth, European practice certainly speaks in our favour. In all European countries, except Greece, there is no limit to the number of textbooks approved for use. Moreover, there is not even an approval procedure in some countries. There are other arguments in favour of our proposal, but they are not so substantial. I would like to refer to some of the arguments that support the concept of a textbook. One of them is that the state will be cheaper if the textbook on each subject for one class is only one. This is a false statement, because the textbooks will be as many as the students are, because, as I have already said, each child will study exactly one textbook. The second argument relates to the so-called "horizontal passability in the system of education', that is to say, the transition from one school to another, and it was also linked to the entry into the university. It is said that difference in textbooks will make horizontal passability difficult and will put children in uneven conditions when applying to higher schools. This is also not true because the content of the textbooks is determined by the curriculum, and they are very detailed and there is no way that textbooks in a meaningful sense can differ in such a way as to create difficulties in switching to another school or in evaluating higher school applications. Another argument, which I consider untenable, is that the only textbook will lead to an increase in the quality of education, because when there was only one textbook in the past, the level of education was higher. The causal link between the deterioration of Bulgarian education and the number of textbooks is, to say the least, unproven. It is clear to everyone that the reasons for the negative trends are diverse and complex and they are in the changes of public relations, in the changes of attitudes and values of people, in the change of the status of the Bulgarian teacher, and the practice of the most advanced countries in terms of education shows that there is no reason to be in the number of textbooks. Finally, I would like to say that our proposal meets our understanding that the educational system needs a spirit of more diversity, more freedom and the opportunity for creative expression of teachers. I therefore call on you to support him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u152	Thank you, dear Mrs. Mihailova. - What's the line? Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u153	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Mihailova, agreeing with you that the problems of education are complex, I think, with the introduction of such a huge variety of textbooks to this complexity we will add the number of textbooks that you are proposing to be unlimited in number. Why? Because the textbook system is normally centralized. We have to have standards. By these standards, we also prepare textbooks that should be offered in schools. The procedure is extremely bureaucratic, and the answer to the question: how are we going to process these textbooks in terms of quality is not clear at all. This procedure is missing because my colleague now says she has 500 books. In other words, there are many textbooks that have not led to a better quality of education. Explain to me how it will work out so that competition will lead to higher quality, since the procedures under which they will be approved will lead to a situation where it is stronger, which is more powerful, it will issue this textbook, it will also be the distributor and from now on whether we will achieve a better quality of education is very controversial. And one more thing, I miss the student. Do you know what absurdity there are in textbooks? The language is incomprehensible, the students cannot understand what this is about and the way the National Assembly talks about some topics, and the textbooks find the same templates, the same expressions that make absolutely no sense. I personally believe that the smaller number will create a prerequisite for the textbook to be a tool for thinking about working at home, not to be something that is incomprehensible and inaccurate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u154	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. Second line.. People's representative Mariana Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u155	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Mihailova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I was able to quote only a small part of the figures that are currently referring to the number of textbooks to be read by the Bulgarian teachers and they were able to make their choice on which subject they would use in the course of the school year. Of course, you pointed out that every child will only be taught one textbook. But I would like to remind you that only 135 textbooks from first to fourth grade are currently approved for the initial course. On average, a teacher from first to fourth grade should read, get acquainted, form an opinion about 30 textbooks. The largest number is 36 for the fourth grade, and we are talking from now on about an unlimited number of textbooks. This is an exceptional burden for Bulgarian teachers, and in a short period of time when they need to get acquainted, to make their assessment. At the same time, I think that no one is questioning the current system, but the excessive opening of the doors, in this case there is an unlimited number of textbooks - a principle that is actually being broken and now - that is what we think will not lead to a better quality and a better situation in Bulgarian education in terms of textbooks and teaching aids. I would like to remind the honourable Members that the textbooks are free, but de facto the teaching aids are purchased by the parents, so here we also have a large number of publications available for choice by both parents and students, which will be another additional load. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. The third line is the People's Representative Milena Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u157	Ms. Mihailova, by agreeing fully with your arguments before I add a few things to them, I would like to call on you perhaps to distinguish between study manuals and textbooks, because colleagues on the left do not make such a difference. [[Applause from GERB.]] What you're talking about, colleagues, is teaching aids. The textbooks are currently selected by procedure from three, so what you've subtracted with these numbers, I'm very sorry, but I'll tell you that's not true. Otherwise, you must accuse the Minister of failing to comply with the Law, which is ridiculous, colleagues. What you missed, colleague Mihailova, to mention, is that the lack of choice on the part of teachers will actually be a prerequisite for a textbook monopoly, for a higher price, for poor quality and for the load of family budgets, because when teachers have to catch up and fill in the novelties that constantly and daily go into pedagogical practice, this will mean additional teaching aids that will have to be bought by parents. And another thing that didn't seem very clear, I'm going to say it because you're talking about quality education. In countries with the highest results of international research in PISA we do not have at all the approval of textbooks. These are Australia, Denmark, England, Estonia, Finland, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands and Norway. The countries in which only approved textbooks can be used are Austria, Czech Republic, Chile, China, Croatia, France, Germany, Hungary, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Serbia after 2004, Slovakia, Turkey and, notice, colleagues, Singapore. I remember that Minister Klisarova was willing to send experts to study the Singapore experience. [[Applause from GERB.]] They better have looked into it. Colleagues, let us support the proposal to select a larger number of textbook projects, because otherwise we will not go to good countries, good education systems, but we will be moving further and further away from them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u158	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. The people representative Stephanie Mihaylova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u159	I won't be able to answer anything, but I'll try. How will projects be evaluated, by what criteria? By the same criteria as your proposal. How will projects be evaluated in the proposal in order to select one project from all presented? The same criteria are set out in the Law. This is compliance with the educational standard and with the curricula. The criteria are clear. This question stands when choosing a textbook as well as when choosing many textbooks. With regard to how the smaller number will lead to a better quality of textbooks, it is not clear at all, at least from the proposed texts, how this would happen, because no additional control mechanism is related to the fact that there is only one textbook. On your proposal, the possibilities for control and impact by the Ministry of Education and Science are only at the initial stage of selecting the only project and shaping its final version, then no control is envisaged. Moreover, if a textbook shows flaws, teachers have no choice but to wait four years when a new procedure will be opened, while if a choice of many textbooks is possible, they can replace the textbook with some failures the following year. Regarding the workload of the teachers, which Mrs. Boyadjieva is talking about. She said the current situation is acceptable, but we're practically not changing the procedure. Now, as with the unlimited number of textbooks, teachers at the second stage will have to form an opinion on all presented projects. The difference is that they will not qualify for the first three, but will simply say that they will be able to work on the projects presented and, at the same time, at this stage, they will be able to choose the textbook on which they will most likely then work. So the burden of teachers will not change and they have shown that they are doing just as well as their colleagues in all European countries. I don't think we have reason to underestimate the Bulgarian teacher. Mrs. Damyanova, I just didn't have time to say some of the things that you said and that, in my opinion and in our view, the concentration of the choice of textbook in an institution gives much greater prerequisites for corruption, as it is a very high stake. Imagine this is the issue of a textbook for all schools, for all students across the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u160	Thank you, dear Mrs. Mihailova. Mrs. Dukova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u161	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This text from the Law was watered down by the Committee on Education and Science. All points of view are as clear as they are, and unchangeable. Before I request a procedure to end the debate, I will say that this Law is a transmission of a reform which, if colleagues do not understand in the philosophy of the Law, will be difficult to understand. It's a transmission, which means I'm participating and changing. The book is part of this change. In view of this, I ask you to put an end to the debate on this article to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u162	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dukova. A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Snezhana Dukova to end the debates on this article. 90 MPs voted: 79 against 6, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 14 against 8, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 15 against 39, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the texts of Articles 156 and 157, by importer, which shall become Articles 158 and 159, on the Commission's report. They voted 93 MPs: 84, against 7, abstention 2. The texts of Articles 158 and 159 on the Commission report have been adopted. First negative vote on the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev, second one on Julian Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u163	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! You've come up with a lot on the subject. The most important thing is that with this text the state is once again running away from responsibility for a single state policy and it is at a time when the state suffers from a huge demographic disaster. Everything important has been said, but I would like to tell Mrs. Damyanova, as Mrs. Dukova ended the debate that she clearly does not distinguish cognitive books from textbooks. The number, which my colleague Boyadjieva commented on, is on the list of approved textbooks for the 2015 academic year 2016 with the order of Minister Tanev on 26 January. I wanted to make a statement to call Mr. Tanev, if he could say what his opinion is about one or many textbooks. If I remember correctly, in June in a broadcast on the Bulgarian National Television he firmly said that there should be one textbook per subject. There a child asked what he thought and he said: "I'm changing schools this year and, unfortunately, I have to buy a new set of textbooks, and my family doesn't have enough financial opportunity. At this point, once again, we will burden families and parents, not to mention that we will have absolutely no control over what children will teach in different schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u164	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. Mr. Angelov, come in for a second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u165	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I couldn't get a say in the debate on that point. I voted negative for the following reasons. There is no statehood in Bulgaria for 25 years. Twenty-five years in Bulgaria is weak, not freedom. If we are a self-respecting state, we must restore statehood, including in education, including where the textbooks are and where the young Bulgarians are raised. I'll tell you why. That there are five, ten or fifteen textbooks per item, what good does that lead to? In one place it will write the Turkish rule, on the other it will write the Ottoman presence, on the third it will write the Ottoman rule. How does that form the children's common position? The other, the Minister is here instead of making committees to evaluate hundreds or thousands of options for textbooks and to lose funds from the Ministry for spending on these committees, these funds can be allocated to work with Bulgarian schools abroad. Currently in the Ministry there are two people working with Bulgarians abroad and with over 300 Bulgarian schools abroad. We will give money so that the publishing companies can play their game and become the same as with pharmaceutical products each company lobbies with certain doctors and GPS to whom to prescribe medicines. It's the same here. All companies go to schools to offer their textbooks and to lobby accordingly in all ways to choose their textbook. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u166	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Article 158 "Mrs. Damyanova'.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u167	A proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 158 the following additions are made: a/ in para. 2 the words for the teaching of religion and by the supreme authority of the respective religion shall be added and after the word "adopted" the word "slashed" shall be inserted and the word "supplied" shall be added. Proposal by MP Stanislav Stanilov: The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 158 the following additions are made: a/ in para. 2 the words for the teaching of faith and by the supreme authority of the respective religion shall be added and after the word "adopted" the word "advantaged" shall be inserted and the word "adopted" shall be added; b/ a new para is created. 5. Only one textbook and a study set are approved for one class subject. A proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 158 the following changes are made: (a) in para. 2 the expression "the educational standard' shall be replaced by the expression "the educational standards', and the expression "to be applied in the practice' shall be added to the expression "in accordance with the requirements of the state educational standard for the content'; (b) para. 4 to be dropped because of art. 160, para. 1 ensure that everything necessary in the case is correctly provided. Proposal from MP Milen Mihov and group. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 158, para. 2 the expression "supposes all projects of textbooks and of school kits" to be replaced by "adopts one project of a textbook or a study set on general education subjects and three projects of a textbook or study set for other subjects"; ) (a.k.a. 2 and the expression supposes all projects to be replaced by supposed to three projects. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs: Art. 158, para (2) is amended as follows: The Minister of Education and Science by order approves a textbook referred to by the valuers, which, based on the evaluation and the competition, has been found to meet the state educational standard for cognitive books, textbooks and teaching aids and is applicable in practice. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 158 new paras are being created. 4 and para. 5 and paragraph 4 becomes para. 6: suppose the order for the approval of the textbook or study manual as well as the order for the approval of its changes. (5) The names of the valuers, including evaluators of the changes made, as well as the names of the members of the committee who approved the manual or textbook, shall also be written on the textbooks and study aids. Proposal of the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 158, which becomes art. 160: Art. 160. (1) The Minister of Education and Science shall, by order, approve all draft cognitive books which, on the basis of the assessment, have been found to comply with the state educational standard for cognitive books, textbooks and teaching aids. (2) The Minister of Education and Science shall, by order, approve all draft textbooks and study kits which, on the basis of the evaluation, have been found to comply with the state educational standard for cognitive books, textbooks and teaching aids, are developed on the basis of the approved programs under art. 76, para. 7, Art. 78, ) (a.k.a. Art. 1 and Art. 1 83, para 7 and are applicable in practice. (3) The orders under para. 1 and 2 or refusals to approve draft cognitive books, draft textbooks and study sets shall be issued no later than 6 months after the expiry of the relevant period for submitting the draft cognitive books, textbooks and study sets under art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. (4) Approved cognitive books, textbooks and study kits may be used for pre-school and school preparation until new study programs are in place or until content changes, graphic design, polygraph or electronic performance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u168	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 11 against 23, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. Proposal of the MP Stanislav Stanilov. The Commission does not support it. They voted 87 MPs: 11 against 33, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The proposal is not supported by the Commission. They voted 82 MPs: 3 against 38, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 84 MPs: 14 against 15 abstentions 55. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. Vote 87 MPs: 5 against 60 abstentions 22. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 158, which, after the Commission's amendment, becomes art. 160 in the same report. Vote 87 MPs: 78 against 9, no abstentions. Article 160 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u169	Article 159 supposed by the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from MP Stanislav Stanilov. The Commission does not support the proposal. The two proposals are identical: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 159, para. 2 after the words "Science and Science" the words "for the teaching of religion and by the supreme authority of the respective religion" shall be added. And Mr. Stanilov's proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 159, para. 2 after the words "Science and Science" shall be commaed and the words "for the teaching of faith and by the high authority of the respective religion" shall be added. A proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 159, para. 4 to be absorbed. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 159, which becomes Art. 161.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u170	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposals of the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, as well as the proposal of the MP Stanislav Stanilov, who are identical. Both proposals are not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 83 MPs: 10, against 31, abstention 42. The proposals have not been accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: for 4, against 63, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 159, which is supported by the Commission and finds a place as art. 161 in her report. Vote art. 161 in the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 84, against 1, abstention 5. Art. 161 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u171	Under art. 160 has a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 160 the following additions are made: (a) in para. 1 after the words "Science and Science" shall be comma and the words "for cognitive books, textbooks and study sets by religion" shall be added at the initiative of the supreme authority of the respective religion. The Commission does not support the proposal. The proposal by the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov is the same as the word "religion" was replaced by "rebreeding." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 160, which becomes art. 162.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u172	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposals of the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs and by MP Stanislav Stanilov, who are not supported by the Commission. [[Loud noise.]] I'm asking for a little more silence in the room. We are voting unsupported by the Commission proposals by MPs. They voted 93 MPs: 10, against 19, abstention 64. The proposals have not been accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for art. 160, which is supported by the Commission and finds place in its report as art. 162. Vote art. 162 on the Commission report. Vote 94 MPs: 87, against 1, abstention 6. Article 162 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u173	Under art. 161 has a proposal of the National Representative Krasimira Anastasova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 161, which becomes Art. 163: Art. 163. The arrangements for assessing and approving the draft cognitive books, textbooks and study kits and their changes, including the determination of valuers, as well as the conditions and arrangements for validating the list under art. 162 are determined by the state educational standard for cognitive books, textbooks and teaching aids. Under art. 162 has a proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 162, para. Two o'clock Allinei 3 and 4 become 2 and 3. Alinea 2 new words outside para. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 162, para. 1, after the word "Preschool" the expression "Learning and Education" is added. The Commission does not support the proposal under para. 1. The proposal is withdrawn under para. 4. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 162, which becomes Art. 164: Art. 164. (1) In the system of pre-school and school education shall be provided for free use of cognitive books, textbooks and study kits under conditions and by order defined by the Council of Ministers. (2) The textbooks and study kits provided for the free use of the students shall be chosen by the teachers teaching on the subject at the relevant stage of the degree of education at a school, in coordination with the Public Council. (3) Bookbooks and study kits outside para. 1, as well as the teaching aids that students will use, are chosen by the teacher who teaches in the class on the relevant subject or module. (4) Knowledge books and teaching aids used in pre-school education shall be chosen by the teachers who teach in the relevant group in kindergarten or in the school, in accordance with the programming system under art. 70.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u174	Are there any speeches, honourable Members of Parliament? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 161 by importer, which becomes art. 163 in the Commission's report, after editing the same one. Vote art. 163 on the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 89 against 1, no abstentions. Article 163 on the Commission report has been adopted. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 12, against 6, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the proposal by the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs in the part which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 5 against 62, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for art. 162, which, after editing in the Commission report, finds a place as art. 164. Vote art. 164 on the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 86, none, abstention 4. Article 164 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u175	Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposals under art. 165, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 166, Art. Article 174, Art. 175 which are reflected in their systematic locations in Section II. The Commission does not support the proposals under art. 163? 165, para. Art. 2 and 3, Art. 167 " 173. After art. A new Section II is hereby established: "Department II" Approval of textbook and study manual Art. 163. Under the terms and conditions of this section, new textbooks for compulsory general education for the initial, secondary and secondary stages shall be approved. Art. 164. (1) The primary, secondary and secondary stages shall be approved following a project contest and a negotiated procedure without notice under the terms and conditions of the Public Procurement Act. (2) The project contest and the negotiated procedure without notice may also be held for a draft study kit, if indicated in the notice of the contest. Art. 165. (1) Project contest shall be announced after validation of new curricula; (2) After a 4-year period of use of the approved textbook in the training and after an analysis of its effectiveness and applicability in the educational process, a project contest may be announced without new curricula being established. (3) The time limit for submitting the documents for participation in the design contest shall not be less than 9 months from the publication of the notice of competition in the Register for Public Procurement. Art. 167. After the evaluators for their choice of textbook, the minister concluded a contract to draw up the final draft textbook with the participant appointed as the winner of the competition. Art. 168. (1) During the execution of the contract under art. 167 prior to the adoption of the final draft textbook a public discussion of the selected draft textbook shall be carried out. (2) Public discussion shall be organised by the Ministry of Education and Science after publication of the draft textbook on the Ministry's website, providing interested parties with at least a one-month period for proposals and opinions on the project. Art. 169. (1) The Minister of Education and Science shall designate a commission which, together with the contractor, shall discuss the proposals and opinions received and adopt a decision on the necessary changes to the draft textbook. (2) Members of the committee may be persons who declare that they have not participated in any quality in the preparation of a draft textbook submitted to the project contest. (3) The members of the commission shall provide the Minister with a declaration of conformity of the circumstances under para. 3 after receiving the list of participants in the project contest. Art. 170. (1) On the basis of the discussion and the decision of the Committee on Art. 169 the contractor shall submit the relevant amendments and prepare the final draft textbook. (2) The final draft of a textbook shall be approved by an order of the Minister of Education and Science if it reflects the necessary changes under art. 169, para. 1. Art. 171. Reproduction and distribution of the approved textbook shall be entrusted to a contractor by the Minister of Education and Science under the terms and conditions of the Public Procurement Act. Art. 172. (1) The procedure for the evaluation and approval of projects of an educational manual shall be opened at the request of a publisher and/or author with an application to the minister concerned. (2) The procedure under para. 1 is held annually in sessions defined in the state educational requirements for textbooks and study aids. (3) If necessary, the Minister may appoint by order an additional session for evaluation and approval of study aids. An additional session can be determined only for study aids of a particular type, for a particular class or type of training. Art. 173. Importers of a study aid project in the procedure under art. 172 may be publishers and/or authors.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u176	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported part of the proposal of the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. They voted 83 MPs: 5 against 65 abstentions 13. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u177	"Chapter 8". Recognition, alignment and validation of learning outcomes. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Eight. Proposal of the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 163, which becomes Art. 165: Art. 165. (1) Recognition is an official written confirmation of the compliance of completed periods of school training or in stages and degrees of education and professional qualification in schools of a foreign country with those in school education in the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) In accordance with this chapter are also recognized the competences acquired after successfully completed education in the educational subjects Bulgarian language and literature, History and civilizations, Geography and economics in their part related to the history and geography of Bulgaria, carried out by funded under the conditions and by the order of this law organizations of Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) Recognition under para. 1 shall be carried out for the purpose of: 1. access to school education in the preschool and school education system; 2. access to vocational training; 3. access to training in the system of higher education; 4. facilitating access to the labour market. (4) Documents for completed periods of school training, degrees of education and professional qualification issued by schools of foreign countries shall be recognised under conditions and in order laid down by the state educational standard for assessing the results of the students' training. (5) When the recognition process detects a difference in the systems for evaluation of the results of the training, the assessment shall be aligned according to the Bulgarian evaluation system under conditions and in order determined by the state educational standard for the assessment of the results of the students' training. (6) Recognition and equivalence under para. 5 shall be carried out by the Minister of Education and Science or by officials appointed by him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u178	We are voting on the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Eight, which is supported by the Commission and art. 165 on the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The text of the importer for the name of Chapter Eight, as well as art. 165 on her report were accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u179	Under art. 164 has a proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 164, para. 4 to obtain the following species: Under the terms and conditions of this Chapter, competences may be validated by persons who have acquired a minimum of primary education. There is a proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 The proposal has been withdrawn under paragraph 1. 2. Proposal of the MPs Stefani Mihailova and Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 164, which becomes Art. 166: Art. 166. (1) The validation shall be an assessment and recognition of the conformity between competences acquired through informal training and informative learning and the requirements for the completion of a class, stage or degree of education and/or for the acquisition of professional qualifications and the issue of the relevant official document for the purpose of: 1. access to school education in the preschool and school education system; 2. access to training for the acquisition of professional qualifications; 3. facilitating access to the labour market. (2) Informal training is training which is carried out as an organised activity outside the system of pre-school and school education, but does not lead to the completion of a class, stage and degree of education and/or to the acquisition of a professional qualification. (3) Informatic learning is uninstitutionalized, disorganized and unsystematized accumulation of competences in human life. (4) Under the terms and conditions of this Chapter, competences may be validated only by persons who do not have primary or secondary education. (5) Under the terms and conditions of this Chapter, competences may be validated in accordance with art. 135, para. 1 only to persons who have acquired secondary education if the subject is not included in their diploma. (6) Under the conditions and in accordance with this Chapter, competences may be validated for a completed period of school training or for a completed class or stage of the basic degree of education, as well as a class of the first high school stage or first high school stage of a person of compulsory school age seeking or receiving protection under the Asylum and Refugees Act, where it is impossible to present the relevant document to the person concerned. (7) Under the terms and conditions of this Chapter, competences may be validated for a completed period of school training or for a completed class or stage of the basic level of education, as well as a first grade or first grade class of a person with special educational needs who has acquired the relevant quality indicator document.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u180	Are there any speeches, honourable Members of Parliament? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 87 MPs: 12, Against 7, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for art. 164, which has been edited by the Commission and finds place in its report as art. 166. Vote art. 166 on the Commission report. 88 MPs voted: 84, none, abstention 4. Article 167 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u181	Under art. 165 has a proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 165, which becomes art. 167: Art. 167. (1) Under the terms and conditions of this Chapter competences may be validated: 1. on a particular subject of study for one or several classes of the basic degree of education; 2. in the subject of study under art. 135, para. 1; 3. in all general education courses provided for studying in compulsory classes for a particular class of the primary degree of education; 4. necessary for the completion of an initial stage or a secondary stage of the basic degree of education; 5. necessary for the acquisition of professional qualifications. (2) The validation under para. 1, t. 1, 3 and 4 is the assessment and recognition of the compliance of competences with the requirements of the relevant curriculum and/or the state educational standard for general education. (3) The validation under para. 1, t. 2 shall be carried out under the conditions and in the order of the additional state maturity examinations, the person choosing whether to make the exam on the educational content under art. 135, para. One or three. (4) The validation under para. 1, t. 3 and 4 may be performed only after submission of a previous class or stage document. (5) The validation under para. 1, t. 1, 3 and 4 shall be carried out by a school chosen by the person carrying out the relevant training. (6) The validation under para. 1, t. 1, 3 and 4 shall be carried out under the terms and conditions of the State Educational Standard for the assessment of the results of the students' training. (7) The validation under para. 1, t. 5 is carried out under the terms and conditions of the Law on Vocational Education and Training. (8) Citizens shall not re-establish competences recognised under the terms and conditions of this Chapter.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u182	Just one clarification. We just accepted art. 166 on the Commission report. I think I made a mistake saying we accepted art. 167........................................................................................... We just voted on art. 166 on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u183	Under art. 166 An importer has a proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 166, para. 2, p. 1 and 2 is replaced by the expression "high school stage'. Proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Marinova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 166, which becomes Art. 168: Art. 168. (1) Compliance of competences with the requirements for the completion of a class, stage or degree of education and/or professional qualification shall be certified by the following documents: 1. a certificate of validation of competences in a school subject for one or more classes, giving the right to issue a completed class, stage or grade document under conditions laid down by the state educational standard for information and documents; 2. a certificate for the validation of competences in a subject subject matter not included in the secondary education diploma, which gives the right to include the assessment in the Bachelor's degree in higher education; 3. a certificate of validation of competences for a class of the basic degree of education which grants the right to continue in a subsequent class or training for the acquisition of professional qualifications; 4. a certificate of validation of competences for the initial stage of the basic degree of education, which gives the right to continue in a subsequent stage of school education or training for the acquisition of professional qualifications; 5. a certificate of validation of competences for a basic degree of education which gives the right to continue to the average degree of education or training for the acquisition of professional qualifications; 6. certificate of validation of professional qualifications; 7. Certificate of validation of professional qualification by part of the profession. (2) Compliance of competences with the requirements for the completion of a class, stage or basic degree of education for persons under art. 166, para. 6 and 7 shall be certified, except by the documents referred to in para. 1, t. The following documents shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and in the Official Journal of the European Union: 1. a certificate of validation of competences for a class of first high school stage, which gives the right to continue in a subsequent class; 2. Certificate of validation of competences for the first high school stage, which gives the right to continue in the second high school stage. (3) The content and order for the issue of the documents under para. 1 and 2 shall be determined by the state educational standard for information and documents.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u184	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 165, which has been edited by the Commission and finds place in its report as art. 167.................................................................................. 167 on the Commission report. Vote 87 MPs: 84, none, abstention 3. Article 167 on the Commission report has been adopted. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 8 against 67 abstentions 12. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 166, which is edited by the Commission and becomes art. 168 on its report 168 on the Commission report. 88 MPs voted: 84, none, abstention 4. The text of art. 168 accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u185	Article 167. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 167, which becomes Art. 169: Art. 169. (1) Schools may organise and hold courses for literacy and courses for acquiring competences from the secondary stage for persons aged 16 years. (2) Training in the courses under para. 1 shall be carried out under programmes established by the Minister of Education and Science, oriented to the results of the training, defined by the State Educational Standard for general education for both primary and secondary stages. (3) The persons who have undergone training in a course under para. 1 shall pass examinations under the terms and conditions of the state educational standard for assessing the results of the students' training. (4) The persons who have successfully passed the examinations under para. The certificates referred to in Article 3 shall be issued accordingly. 168, para. 1, t. 3, 4 or 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 168, which becomes art. 170. "Chapter 9" "Children and students". The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Ninth. "Department I.. Main rights and The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u186	We vote on the text of the importer edited by the Commission for art. 167, which becomes Art. 169 on the Commission report, the text of the importer for art. 168, which becomes art. 170 on the Commission report, as well as the name of Chapter 9 and Section I of the importer supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. Article 169, art. 170, the name of Chapter 9 and the name of Section I of that Chapter have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u187	Article 169. Proposal by the National Representative Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 169 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 169, para. 1 is created a new t. 11 with the following content: "11." to make proposals to the Director and the Pedagogical Council regarding the participation of students in the school's overall activities, as well as to select their representatives for participation in the Pedagogical Council in addressing issues related to the rights and obligations of students, awards and forms of prevention of problematic behavior, the organization of initiatives involving students and their civic and creative participations. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 169, para. 1 points are renumbered: t. 11 is going to be a t. 12, t. 12 is going to be t. 13. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 169, para. 2 After the words "Study Self-Management" the words "under conditions and order" shall be added. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 169, para. 1 the word "facultative" is replaced by the word "freely elected." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Boyka Marinska, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov, made on the basis of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 169, which becomes Art. 171: Art. 171. (1) The children, respectively the students have the following rights: 1. to be trained and raised in a healthy, safe and secure environment; 2. to be regarded as active participants in the educational process; 3. choose the profile and profession; 4. choose between the study subjects or modules proposed by the school for study in the electives and in the optional classes; 5. receive library information services; 6. receive information about their training, education, rights and duties; 7. receive general and additional support for personal development; 8. to be informed and consulted in relation to the choice of education and/or profession; 9. participate in project activities; 10. to give opinions and suggestions for school activities, including for elective and optional classes; 11. through the forms of student self-government to participate in the discussion in solving issues concerning school life and school community, including the school curriculum; 12. to receive assistance from the school and local self-government authorities in expressing their views on issues directly affecting them, as well as participation in the lives of the community; 13. to be encouraged with moral and material rewards. (2) The students participate in the school life and in the organizational development of the school through different forms of student self-government at the level of a class and school defined by the rules of the school on a proposal of the students. (3) Students shall have the right to receive scholarships under conditions and by order determined by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u188	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal from the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 9 against 10, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 4 against 60, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 169, which is edited by the Commission and finds a place as art. 171 in her report we vote art. 171 on the Commission report. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. Text accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u189	Under art. 170 has a proposal from MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 170, which becomes Art. 172: Art. 172. (1) Students shall have the following duties: 1. to attend and participate in the classes and activities; 2. maintain the authority of the school and the school community and contribute to the development of good traditions; 3. respect the rights, honor and dignity of others as well as not apply physical and mental violence; 4. to wear the school uniform and other hallmarks of the school where provided, or to appear at the school in clothing and in kind according to the requirements of the school rules; 5. not to participate in gambling, not to use tobacco and tobacco products, alcohol and drugs; 6. not to carry weapons, as well as other objects that are a source of increased danger; 7. to carry their student ID card to and from school; 8. to present to their parents and pedagogical specialists their student book and the correspondence book; 9. comply with the rules of conduct in the class and in the school; 10. comply with the rules of procedure of the institution; 11. do not hinder by their conduct and conduct the normal course of the school hours; 12. do not use their mobile phones during school hours. (2) The Rules of Procedure of the institution may also provide for other rights and obligations for children and students, insofar as they do not conflict with this Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 171, which becomes Art. 173.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u190	We vote Articles 170 and 171 by importer. The first one is edited by the Commission and becomes art. 172 in her report, the other member is fully supported and finds a place as art. 173 in the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. Articles 172 and 173 of the Commission report are unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u191	On the name of Section II there is a proposal from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: After art. 171 the name of Section II is amended as follows: "Department II " Support for the Development of the Capabilities of Children and Students ". The Commission shall support the importer's proposal for the name of Section II.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u192	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 3 against 59, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I now vote on the name of Section II, as proposed by the importer and supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 85 against 4, no abstentions. The name of Section II is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u193	Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: Everywhere in this section, the words "personal development" shall be replaced by the words "source development."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u194	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 5 against 68 abstentions 16. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u195	Under art. 172 has a proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 172, which becomes Art. 174: Art. 174. (1) The institutions in the pre-school and school education system shall provide support for the personal development of children and students together with state and local authorities and bodies and social service providers. (2) The institutions in the pre-school and school education system shall independently develop and implement comprehensive policies for: 1. support for the personal development of the child and student; 2. building a positive organizational climate; 3. validation of positive discipline; 4. Development of the school community. (3) Building a positive organizational climate requires the creation of conditions for cooperation, effective communication and relationship of concern between all participants in the education process. (4) In working with children and students, the institutions in the system of preschool and school education base their activities on the principle of positive discipline, which is associated with measures and approaches guaranteeing a hearing of the child and the student, awareness of the reasons for his problematic behavior and providing an opportunity to adopt good behavioral models towards himself and others. (5) In working with the students, the institutions in the preschool and school education system base their activities on the principle of prevention of training difficulties and early risk assessment of them. Those measures shall apply to all students in a common classroom in accordance with the state educational standard for inclusive education. Under art. 173 has a proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 173, which becomes Art. 175: Art. 175. (1) Each school shall have an ethical code of the school community which shall be adopted by representatives of the pedagogical council, the public council, the board and the student self-government in order laid down in the rules of the school activity. (2) The code of ethics shall be drawn up in an accessible and understandable manner for the students and placed in a prominent place in the school building. (3) The code of ethics shall be published on the school's website.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u196	I shall put to the vote Articles 172 and 173 by importer, which, after the amendment of the Commission, shall become Articles 174 and 175 in the report of the same. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. Articles 174 and 175 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u197	Under art. 174 has a proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 174, para. 3 the words for the implementation of the........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: Article 174 is amended as follows: Art. 174. (1) Children and students in the system of preschool education and training and school education shall be provided with support for the development of their gifts, abilities and skills, providing an appropriate physical, psychological and social environment. (2) Development support shall be applied in accordance with the individual educational needs of each child and student. (3) In support of the development of children and students a National Fund is established to the Minister of Education and Science. (4) The Rules for the Organization of the Activities of the Fund under para. 3 is validated by an order of the Minister of Education and Science. (5) For the implementation of the general and additional support of children and students with special educational needs who are trained in non-special kindergartens and schools, specialists from the extracurricular specialized centers work. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 174, which becomes Art. 176.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-23.u198	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, are there any speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 13 against 45, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the proposal by the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 17 against 20, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for art. 174, which is supported by the Commission and has a place in its report as art. 176. Vote 98 MPs: 94, none, abstention 4. Article 176 on the Commission report has been adopted. With art. 175 by importer we'll continue tomorrow. [[Laughter, excitement.]] As you understand, tomorrow we continue with the same 9:00 bill. I'm adjourned today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
