ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. On the basis of art. 50, para. 5, just as yesterday I informed you, I propose today, after we have finished the second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses, which we started yesterday, after the fifth point to include a new item on the Committees, which are imposed in relation to the oath announced on yesterday as elected and already MPs of the GERB group at the place of those who are suspended and are already municipal mayors. Colleagues, please vote. 135 MPs voted: 132, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Mr. Hristov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! Please put to the vote the move to item 11 which concerns the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement, point 11th after the item voted. It is a very short page. On November 18th is the deadline for final completion of...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u3	For sustainable management in the hydromeliorative sector.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u4	Yeah, eleventh point at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u5	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote point eleventh, it is no longer eleventh, because we have included an additional Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services to strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture and to prepare draft strategies for sustainable management in the hydromeliorative sector and to protect against the harmful effects of water between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 20 March 2014, signed on 24 July 2015, with an importer "The Council of Ministers," to be examined in plenary after the changes in the Standing Committees, which will be after the second vote of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses. Vote 142 MPs: 130, against 2, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kanev's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u6	Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I propose to extend the deadline for proposals between the first and second reading of the Industrial Property Representatives Bill, No 502-01-73, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 August 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u7	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 141 MPs: for 136, no against, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR DELIVERING AND ADVISION OF THE LAW FOR EXCIES AND DANISH CALLS. On yesterday, we voted § 3 in the version of the Commission report. Paragraph 3 is to be reported by importer, which will become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Yesterday we voted to allow the guests, so they can enter the hall. Please allow Mrs. Natasha Petrova in the hall and Mrs. Natasha Petrova in the Office of Customs. In addition, outside yesterday's vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u9	Voting mode. Vote 136 MPs: 129 against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u10	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u11	We vote. They voted 123 MPs: 98, none, abstention 25. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u12	The proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 5 and shall propose the following version: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20, para. 2 the following amendments and 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6 the words at the time of termination of the licence for the management of the tax warehouse from which the goods are drawn up and the comma after them shall be deleted. 2. Point 8 is amended as follows: It's 8 o'clock. the identification of missing goods for which excise duty is due, including loss of coal, coke, electricity, natural gas or biogas established in the persons referred to in art. 57a, para. 1, t. 1, 2, 3, 3a, 3b, 5 and 6. 3. point 17 is amended as follows: Seventeen. the sale of electricity, natural gas or biogas to consumers of electricity, natural gas or biogas for domestic and commercial use, as well as the sale of natural gas or biogas as motor fuel, with the exception of sales to persons registered under art. 57a, para. 1, t. 2, 3, 3a, 5 and 6. 4. point 18 is amended as follows: 18. the consumption of electricity, natural gas or biogas by the persons referred to in Article 1. 57a, para. 1, t. 3, 3b, 5 and 6 for its own use, except in the case of electricity consumption for the production or maintenance of electricity production. 5. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 19 after the word "supplied', the words "supplied' shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u13	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the text of the importer for § 4 which, after the amendment of the Commission, becomes § 5 in its report. Please vote. Vote 118 MPs: for 107, there is no objection, abstention 11. Paragraph 5 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u14	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u15	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the text of the importer for § 5, which in the Commission report becomes § 6 and is supported by the same as for § 6, which becomes § 7. Please vote on the texts of the importer for § 6 and 7 on the Commission report supported by that report. Vote 112 MPs: for 102, against 1, abstention 9. Paragraphs 5 and 6 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u16	According to § 7 the proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8, and shall propose the following version: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24a The following "1." In para. 1 after the words the exemption from excise duty shall be added under art. 22, para. 2 as well as the exemption from excise duties. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: For each object to be obtained and used by a special method of ethyl alcohol or energy products from an excise-free end-user, a separate certificate of excise-free end-user shall be issued. 3. In para. 3: (a) c. 6 after the word "supplied', the special method of ethyl alcohol or ethyl alcohol shall be added; (b) To be created t. 7. "7." hold a licence, authorisation or registration to carry out the activity where required by law. 4. In para. 4 after the word "supplied' the special method of ethyl alcohol or ethyl alcohol shall be added. 5. In para. 5. .) (c).................................................................. 2 after the word "supplied', the special method of ethyl alcohol or ethyl alcohol shall be added; (b) c. 3 after the word "supplied' the special method of ethyl alcohol under art. 22, para. 2 or "supplier'; (c) point 4 is amended as follows: "4." ethyl alcohol or the energy products to be used by the end-user - trade name and CN code; (d) point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. the annual estimated quantities for ethyl alcohol or for energy products to be obtained and used by type of activity and for energy products by specific method, and for energy products by type of energy products; (e) c. 6 after the word "actions', the words "types of energy' shall be replaced by the words "energy products', "energy products', "energy products', "energy products' and "energy products'; (f) c. 8 after the word "supplied', added "supplied by a special method of ethyl alcohol or ethyl alcohol'; (g) create a t. 10: ..10. annual estimated quantities of goods produced by purpose for the realization of the territory of the country, for export or for another Member State. 6. In para. 6: .) (c).................................................................. 10 after the word "supplied', the special method of ethyl alcohol or ethyl alcohol shall be added; (b) c. In the case of cogeneration of heat and electricity, the cost values shall be added at the end to include separately data on the quantity of energy products used for the production of heat and the quantity of energy products used for the production of electricity. 7. A new para is being created. 7. A final user released from excise duty shall not be issued to a person whose owners, managers, prosecutors, majority partners or shareholders are or were at the time of the occurrence of the obligations of owners, prosecutors, majority partners or shareholders, members of management or control bodies of persons with outstanding public obligations incurred by the customs authorities. 8. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8.....................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u17	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 7 by importer, which shall, after the amendment of the Commission, become § 8 in its report. Please vote. 125 MPs voted: 114, none, abstentioned 11. Paragraph 8 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u18	According to § 8 the proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. 3. The proposal for t. Four has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u19	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! We made this proposal for the sole purpose in the case of collateral provided, as recorded in para. 3 as a new text, together with the other prerequisites, to give the customs authorities grounds for issuing the relevant document. This has not been adopted by the Commission, but we believe that this is a text that complements the procedure. This will facilitate the work of the administration and will be clearer for registered persons as well. As far as the texts are concerned, I would like to say a few words We have proposed that the word "service" be replaced by "issue" precisely by the problems that the registered persons have when receiving documents that are issued by the administration. We agreed with the grounds which were set out by the Customs Agency that the document itself in service, if it enters into force, will create other problems for the registered persons. This is logical and motivated, but I would like to say that I expect the Customs Agency to make much more of its internal rules not to allow cases where those documents are not issued to registered persons within the time limit. There are no such deadlines in the Law, it cannot be foreseen, but can be made with internal rules. There is no procedure in the Law for issuing an administrative act, but there are no deadlines for their service and there is no safeguard mechanism for applicants on these documents. That's our offer. I suggest you back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovalysky. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs under the heading. 3. It is not supported, so I will read it to you: "3." In para. 6 after the word "imregularities" the expression "s" shall be added and/or the presentation of the collateral under para. The following information shall be provided in accordance with Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009: We are voting on a proposal which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 113 MPs: 29, against 49, abstentioned 35. The offer is not accepted. And now I am voting on the text of the importer for § 8, which becomes § 9 in the Commission's report, and is supported by the same. Please vote. Vote 98 MPs: for 89, against 9, no abstentions. Paragraph 9 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u22	From § 9 by importer to § 16 by importer, which become § 10 to § 17, respectively, the Commission shall support the importer's text for those paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u23	Statements? There are no speeches. We vote on the importer's texts for paragraphs 9 to 16 including those supported by the Commission and in its report become paragraphs 10 to 17 inclusive. Please vote. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. Paragraphs 10 to 17 of the Commission report have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u24	According to § 17 the proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The proposal is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 18, and shall propose the following version: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it in t. 8 after the words the gas input shall be commaed and added to the Liquefied biogas and biogas in gaseous state. 2. The creation of para. 2: When using energy products to produce cogeneration heat and electricity, the tax base under para. 1 for the heat produced shall be determined on 30 per cent of the total amount of energy products used for the cogeneration of heat and electricity.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u25	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 17 which, after editing the Commission, becomes § 18 in its report. Please vote. They voted 104 MPs: for 100, against 1, abstention 3. Paragraph 18 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u26	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18 which shall become § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u27	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 18, which in the Commission report becomes § 19, supported by the same. Please vote. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. Paragraph 19 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u28	According to § 19 the proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be read in conjunction with the The proposal supports the proposal in the rest of the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 20, and shall propose the following version: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 3 the number (b) c. 4 the number (c) points 8 and 9 are repealed; (d) c. the 10th number "six45' is replaced by "six46'; (e) create a t. 11: "11." for biogas falling within CN code 2711 19 and 2711 29 for 1 gigajoule........................................................................................................... 2. In para. The 8th number s is replaced by the 646th and after the word "Literature" is added or 1000 kg depending on the determined tax base.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u29	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 20 in the Commission's report, after its amendment. Please vote. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 20 of the Commission's report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u30	According to § 20 the proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 21, and shall propose the following version: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 the words "size 50 BGN" shall be replaced by "six46 BGN"; (b) c. 2 the words "size 50 BGN" shall be replaced by.400 BGN; (c) c. 3 the words "size 50 BGN" shall be replaced by "six46 BGN"; (d) shall be established. 8. It's 8 o'clock. for biogas falling within CN code 2711 19 and 2711 29 for 1 gigajoule........................................................................................................... 2. In para. 3 words................................................................................. 1-4s are replaced 3. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The rates referred to in paragraph 4 shall be as follows: 1, t. 2 and 4 shall apply provided that the person who released the excise goods for consumption has the document under para. 3, certified by the person to use the goods for the intended purpose, except for liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) in heating bottles taken out of a tax warehouse. 4. In para. 5 words............................................................................................. 1s and 1s shall be replaced by the outputs referred to in para. 1, t. 2 and 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u31	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I invite colleagues to support this proposal, which has been supported by the whole Commission, by all colleagues in the group because it is about implementing the EU's strategy for sustainable development, and it is about keeping the LPG.......................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u33	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. It is actually the text of the Commission that has been proposed. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 21 in the Commission report after the amendment. Please vote. 99 MPs voted: 94, against 1, abstention 4. Paragraph 21 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u34	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 which shall become § 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u35	Statements? I won't. We are voting on § 21 by importer, which in the Commission's report becomes § 22 after its support. They voted 102 MPs: 98, none, abstention 4. Paragraph 22 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u36	Proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of Members of the National Assembly to drop § 22. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov § 22 to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u37	Statements? Mr. Dimitrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I talked about these texts once, but I want to remind you what this is about. At the end of last year, the current government proposes and we accept a calendar for changing excise duties in Bulgaria. In this calendar we say the following thing: it will not be like before, we will not repeat bad practices, there will be predictability, there is a calendar, excise duties will change according to this calendar. Only ten months later we are offered, again by our government, radical or complete change in this calendar. There is a doubling in practice of the proportional excise duty and a reduction of the specific, which is why? In order for cheaper cigarettes to rise, and the higher or higher price class to have a greater appreciation. The biggest problem in the whole thing is this: you can't have the same government, the same people within ten months to change their minds, because that's the exact opposite of predictability. Even colleagues, if this calendar had been adopted by a government that has been asked, there would be some logic at the moment to revise this policy, but it has been adopted, again I say, by this current government, which we have chosen here together, and such a change is contrary to any predictable logic from now on. Moreover, after a while we will be looking at another text..................................................................................... It was given one period of two months in which the business, the society to fit into the changes, is also dropped out. That is, the second text, which guaranteed some predictability, which said: if you make changes in excise taxation, they must enter at least two months after their adoption, and that falls away, which, ladies and gentlemen, personally leads me to serious doubts. How is it that the same people, the same Ministry of Finance, suggested some things December last year and ten months later, without the market environment having undergone much changes, without anything significant happening, are giving up what December proposed last year, and is now suggesting the opposite?! Because I know that the basic principle of right-center policy is predictability, being predictable is one of the most valuable things, for this reason I will personally vote for what we agreed together on December last year. I therefore propose that we drop § 22 to keep our word on the policy that we have wagered together, colleagues, who all of us in the ruling majority together voted that even some of the opposition then seemed to support us. In order to keep our word, we will propose and vote for the dismissal of § 22. I believe that this is an honest approach to politics. If someone wants such a big change, they must justify to us a disaster event or something that has totally changed the business environment, which would require an exceptional change in the calendar that we have voted on. What is this extraordinary event? What happened that we would give up the predictability of our promise of measures in a given direction before the Bulgarian society? What happened, I ask all of you? If anyone can tell, it'll be fine. I, for example, would like to hear the Ministry of Finance...... how did December have one position, and now... ten months later, they have a completely different position? But, honourable Members, the decisions you make, the decisions we make, and because we make the decisions, I offer you what policy we have promised to carry out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Do you have any lines? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, you're wrong. You are wrong that the deadline for changing the opinion of a part of the ruling majority is ten months. And it's shorter than that. There are cases where, within a month, things change. Remember yesterday about local taxes and taxes and car transports what happened, not to mention that there are representatives who say contradictory things in the morning, noon and evening. Don't be surprised they've changed their minds in ten months. Surprised they've lasted ten months.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u41	Any other lines? Mr. Dimitrov, you will take advantage of your right to dodge, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u42	Dear Mr. Ermenkov, if you have listened to me carefully, this is what I told the parliament not to do, as you have done. Let us not do as Oresharski constantly changed policy, as he gave up everything and eventually lost stability, led things to a budget deficit and to the bankruptcy of a large bank. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB. Laughter and excitement in GERB.]] That's what I'm telling the ruling majority: people, let's not do what they do. [[BSP LB]] For he that doeth as they do shall end as they do. And we don't want to end up like them, do we, colleagues? Since we do not want to end up like them, I urge you to keep our calendar, to keep our promises from last year, not to make such drastic changes that cannot be explained and justified. It doesn't make any sense to them, it doesn't make any economic sense! There is no catastrophic event to explain such a change. And since we don't want to do what they do, we've seen the final result of their rule, I suggest we remain predictable, remain honest, remain consistent. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u43	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! The sharp change in the philosophy of excise taxation without arguments or only with statements that seem to sound expert are not only surprising but also too dangerous because they directly influence revenue, business, citizens and, of course, on the trust that was spoken of just a few moments ago from this tribune too. It is false that the tax calendar had to change because the total tax burden as a percentage of the weighted average selling price is too high. The high tax burden as a percentage of the selling price of cigarettes in Bulgaria is the result of two conditions. On the one hand is the minimum nominal tax burden under a directive and on the other hand the fact that the cheapest cigarettes in the European Union are precisely in our country and whatever we do, at a low price of cigarettes the burden of the levy will be great. If the idea of the Ministry of Finance is that this rate is high and does not suit us as a state, then the order is different, not this way. The other false statement is that the new excise calendar will ease the cheapest cigarettes, that is, their prices will not rise as much as the old calendar. It is clear from the estimates presented that there is no difference between the two calendars in the lowest segment of the excise duty rates for cigarettes. So the claim is false. The argument that the excise structure is wrong is also unfounded and proportional excise duty should be lifted because that is the case throughout Europe. In recent years, colleagues, there is no EU country that has sharply changed the excise structure towards an increase in the proportionate element. The government's strongest argument is that the new excise structure will bring more revenue and reduce smuggling. This is highly desirable and reminiscent of arbitrary speaking before, when in 2010, political shortsightedness led to a failure in excise policy. If there is one thing that can change current data on revenue growth and a decline in illegal trade, it is the sharp, totally unargumented and unexpected change in the excise structure, contrary to trends in Europe. Here I will just mention what the Director of the Customs Agency says: "70% of smoked cigarettes without Banderol are Bulgarian production. " - How are we going to fight this smuggling? Thank you. I suggest we do not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovallisky. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, the two previous statements have been more reproached by the government for changing its policy without making it clear what it is about in substance. In order to respond to these reproaches, I must say that the government has changed its policy since last year. But changing your mind and admitting it doesn't mean consistency, but strength, reason, means responsibility! Since Mr. Turnovallisky explained that the arguments for changing the calendar are practically expert, I will tell you that they are purely pragmatic. In this way I will also respond to his claims which, unfortunately, are not true. Why, ladies and gentlemen, is it necessary to increase the excise duty of cigarettes at all? Because under the Treaty of Accession of Bulgaria to the European Union, we are committed by 2018 to achieving a minimum excise duty of cigarettes for the European Union. For this reason, from this year until 2018, we will have a gradual increase in the excise duty of cigarettes. Why and how do you increase this excise duty? You know that the excise duty of cigarettes in Bulgaria is calculated on the basis of two components and the ratio between them actually gives one or another increase in different price segments. What would have happened in 2016, or would it have happened if we, here in this room, rejected § 22 and listened to the conspirators, would remain the old calendar based on predictability? In 2016, the lowest price share of cigarettes in the range of 4,20 will increase by 30 pennies. The next price segment will increase by 20 cents. The next price segment from 5,25 to 5,90 will increase by 15 pennies, twice the lowest segment. The last segment of 5.90 would have increased by 20 pennies. We propose for 2016 the lowest price segment to remain with the increase of 30 pennies and 20 pennies because it wants or does not want it to reach the minimum excise duty for cigarettes, but to bear the tax burden of the increase for 2016, 2017 and 2018 gradually from the higher segment, namely it instead of 15 pennies to increase by 25 pennies, and instead of 20 pennies for the last price class to increase by 55 pennies. Why are we offering this? Because the defendant said that 70% of illegal cigarettes are Bulgarian production. Well, that's why we offer it so it doesn't rise sharply in 2016, but mostly in 2017 and 2018, the lowest price segment that will activate exactly this type of smuggling. We're offering it, and what I'm about to say may not like the Minister of Health. He's a smoker, by the way. We offer it because usually Bulgarian smokers, ordinary people buy from the lowest segment, and we do not want them to take the main weight this year and next year at the expense of the higher segment. I do not want to talk about Bulgarian and foreign producers and importers of cigarettes, because the market analysis shows that they are practically distributed almost equally. The lowest price segment is held by cigarette importers, which disproves some attempts of suggestion which, in the interest of truth, were not directly said by this tribune that this is done to stimulate the Bulgarian cigarette manufacturer at the expense of cigarette importers. The importers can make the structure of their imports one that suits them, not to reduce, but to increase their presence on the Bulgarian market. We do it for people, we do it for justice, we do it for budget revenues. The figures show that in this modified structure for 2016, if consumption in this structure was maintained, 21 million would have been received. lv. More revenue. Notice, in 2017 The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN and 2018 The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the Therefore, honourable Members, I call on you to support the government's proposed change in the excise rate and structure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u47	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, this is what we are talking about in 2014, November, were not the same requirements of the European Union? Aren't those the same readings? Didn't you think about revenue then, didn't you think about citizens? Did you find that out a year later?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u49	Second line.. People's representative Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u50	Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, we together with you, together with the MPs from GERB, from the Reformation Bloc, from the Patriotic Front voted and entered in the Law on excises to have measuring instruments to monitor in real time and control the production of cigarettes and alcohol. That's what we did over 12 months ago. And it was the right thing to do! Since I heard from you that you want to fight the grey economy, this is the key measure. And I ask: why didn't it happen? It did not happen because it had to have consent and notification from the European Commission. Until the time I ask my questions to the Ministry of Finance, I am under the impression that this notification has not yet been requested. I fully agree with you, I fully support you, and I have always voted, and we want to reduce the grey economy. But why aren't the appliances there? Why aren't the appliances installed?! Why haven't the appliances been installed all year?! What have they been doing all year without these appliances? Without these instruments, colleagues, there is a risk that the income from excise goods will begin to fall. Together we fought to have such appliances for producers of petroleum products. They are installed, they work and should produce results. Why aren't they here for the cigarettes and the booze? Why aren't they here?! Who didn't do their job? I am very sympathetic, Mrs. Stoyanova, to your thesis on combating the grey economy. You're absolutely right! However, our efforts to your colleagues from GERB, my colleagues from the Reformation Bloc, our colleagues from the Patriotic Front, we asked for them and voted them out, and they are not 12 months later. Seeing that no notification has been requested yet and knowing that the entry into force is six months after the notification, we risk not being there in 2016. That's why I'm making your line now. Let's just leave it at the moment that the appliances are gone, but seeing as how things are going, they won't be there next year. So let's roll up our sleeves and lead the real fight against the gray economy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. The third line is the People's Representative Grozdan Karadzhov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u52	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Stoyanova, I thought I didn't hear you quite accurately, but my colleagues told me that this is what you said about Bulgarian statistics smokers smoking from the cheaper cigarette segment. Just so they don't take this economic blow on their shoulders, we're going to put a very minimal amount of excise duty in excess, while on expensive cigarettes, which probably smoke them more wealthy people, we're going to put the big excise. I don't know if you remember the real purpose of having excise duty. The reasons with which this tax exists at all are: to cover the increased costs of health care, to protect the health of smokers. It is not a levy intended to fill the treasury initially, but to compensate for the damage we suffer from smokers. In other words, what do you say to the Bulgarians, let's call them minor citizens? That we desire their death, that we want them to die faster, that we want lower excise duties for them only and only them to be sicker. That's cynical! I really appeal specifically to the amendment to raise the lower tax for the lower segment of cigarettes, where, you know, the main two players are Bulgarian producers, and you have shareholders here in the room, let's not do this lobbying text. Let's keep the decision we made at the beginning of this year when the excise duty was flat for both the expensive and the cheap segment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u53	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Mrs. Stoyanova, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u54	Thanks for the lines. They once again show that things are essentially right, and they are looking for arguments, I don't know why, from the sphere around the problem. Mr. Turnovallisky, I said, yes, we've changed our minds, and I believe this is a manifestation of reason and strength. Who are you lobbying for? Who are you lobbying for with your proposal to cancel this text? Mr. Martin Dimitrov, I agree with you the fight against smuggling is super important, and it happens because in 2015 it is precisely because of this struggle that we have 350 million more revenues than excise duty. It's nice to ask on the left-hand side, where were they in the past years? Mr. Karadjov, you called me a lobbyist. I really am a lobbyist. Unfortunately, I'm a lobbyist for poor smokers. To call it a cynicism that I defend to remain lower the increase in low price segments of cigarettes, I think it is very, very bad to sound from the stands and from the mouth of the MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u55	Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will very confidently vote for the dismissal of this § 22 because I see that we have entered Paragraph 22. I remember that in the time of the soccer, in the various party captives there was a saying that everything was done in the name of man and for the good of man. The zebras asked the question: do you know who the man is? And the whole Bulgarian people knew who the man was. Now I hear this was done in the name of the people. Who are the people? Say them so we know them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u57	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Mrs. Cornelia Nino, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u58	Dear colleagues, let's not politicize and personalize this conversation. I suggest we take a look at the history of what's been going on the last few years when we've been raising excise taxes on cigarettes. You did so in order to improve the health status of the Bulgarian nation and I quote Simeon Djankov. The result after the increase then: the gray sector increased and decreased the official consumption of cigarettes in Bulgaria. You did not improve the state of health of the nation for one reason "You failed to implement the Law part of these funds to transfer to the Ministry of Health. Then I asked the Minister of Finance a special question: how much of this money was transferred to the Ministry of Health as required by the Law to be spent on improving the health of the nation? Zero, colleagues. And now it's going to be like this. You're not going to improve your health, you're going to drop the official share of smoked cigarettes, you're going to increase smuggling. If there are any hints here about who and why there is interest in this, just to tell you, because you are not telling yourself directly, I should tell you: "Bulgartabac" has not been a serious player in the Bulgarian market for a long time. A very small share of the Bulgarian market is on the Bulgarian market. A much larger share are held by importers and outside cigarette companies. Bulgarian cigarette production is being saved from exports and now exists thanks to exports and not from the internal market. And exports don't get paid excise duty if you don't know, let me tell you. So don't push in this direction that someone here has a personal interest or financial interest or whatever. That's not the problem. If we have to protect someone or take care of someone, these are Bulgarian smokers. You don't want to, there's a lot of them. What do we do with the increase in excise duty? We hit them. What does the practice show? How do they react? They start looking for cigarettes in black. When there's demand, there's supply. Smuggling goes right up. This will be the effect of everything you do, and has been proven in history after the repeated lifting of excise duties on cigarettes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u59	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u60	Ms. Ninova, I really agree with you that any raising of cigarette prices leads to an increase in smuggling. Unfortunately, however, the increase in cigarette prices does not depend on the will of what is or any other government. The only thing we can do to reduce the possible surge in smuggling is what we offer a smaller increase in the low price segment, and a greater increase in the high price segment, although this actually means stimulating cigarette consumption in the low price segment. But the facts are such and you confirmed them: the people smoke regardless of Minister Moskov's health policy, and we have to comply with this fact, including because of budget revenues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u61	Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u62	Mrs. Stoyanova, I do not agree with your first argument that we should do this because it was true in Europe and she told us so. I give an example: Greece is a member of the European Union and does not fulfil these requirements for years because it believes it should pursue a policy in the interests of its nation and of its country. He pays his fine for what is much less than the damage that would occur from the excise duty. For years Greece has kept its national interest, which is why it raised tobacco production, raised cigarette production, and increased budget revenue and did not hit the situation of people who smoke. As for the fact that you are raising the low price segment to more, because the people are smoking. Let me remind you of the last time we raised the excise duty, what happened: it was massively cut into tobacco and the shrinking of cigarettes in a newspaper. The smuggling of cut tobacco jumped four times, and to this day it is huge, despite the measures taken. Don't count on people looking for the low price segment because there was less excise duty. They'll be looking for the least evil, the lowest price, and they'll go back to the illegal factories, the garages, where tobacco is cut with some machines and rolled into a newspaper. This is by no means an argument for improving the health of the nation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u63	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Any other speeches? National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov, followed by Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was so moved by this drama, so much thinking about poor smokers. Only, I remember yesterday, without blinking an eye, you cut off the heads of the poor rakis.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u65	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u66	Without blinking, you forbidden it! Now you're changing the calendar. The colleague Dimitrov only failed to note that in 2014, when we accepted the calendar, he was also based on the three-year budget forecast. However, in a business where the tax calendar and tax rates change, there really must be some predictability. Of course, the equipment, the tracking of the contraband, suddenly stopped talking. It is clear that the levels of smuggling between 2009 and 2012 have jumped to almost 50% when the excise duty is lifted; it is clear that in no way have the revenues increased; it is clear that with this drastic increase now precisely this type of excise duty, it will probably increase again; it is clear that as of 1 January there will be no more a penny of the rural cauldrons, because they will disappear. Here are the actions that, I do not know what they are dictated from, and there is no motivation or argument on them. Nobody said by changing the capacity of the cauldrons from 1,000 to 500...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u67	Let's get back to the cigarettes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u68	Wait a minute, don't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u69	I'll stop you if you don't talk about it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u70	Nobody's saying how much money they're gonna make. Now we're getting some 20, 30, 40 million here, and next year it's probably gonna turn out to be an excuse, a trial, a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u71	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Quite impartially, and as an outsider for the subject, I tried to create an opinion based on the speeches we heard from the stands. I must tell you that I cannot accept as well as much of the colleagues who have spoken before me that the tax calendar should be subject to a change of 10 months. Each government must have its consistent and legal policy. Somehow I couldn't understand the arguments for the proposal for different excise duties at different price groups of cigarettes. I didn't understand, Mrs. Stoyanova, what are the arguments? In no case can I accept the argument that this was almost a concern for the users of cheap cigarettes for the poor smokers of Bulgaria. No way! Somehow, I don't know why everyone who speaks here forgets that this is exactly the meaning of excise duty, and that is the point of every country's policy to limit the harmful effects of any such harmful habits, such as smoking, drugs, and so on and so forth. I do not see here this concern for the people and for the people that have been assigned to us as a duty of MPs, on the contrary. Mrs. Stoyanova, how come you cared about poor smokers, I don't understand, and you didn't care about poor non-smoking people? For example, I have never smoked, and here this category of people somehow remained outside the discussion. Imagine that there are people who don't smoke, disgust and disgust when someone smokes under their noses. Aren't we going to think about them? The meaning of excise duty, the meaning of state policy must be to limit smoking, and the best way to do so is by increasing prices. Since we need to achieve certain European regulations, let us do it proportionately for both cheap and expensive cigarettes. And a brace related to cigarette smuggling: sorry, this is not the work of the legislator, this is the work of the executive. If we imagine that by legal measures we will restrict or encourage smuggling, that is simply not the case. In this way, we justify the inaction of the executive, whose duty is to combat smuggling. They have an obligation to fight smuggling to do the necessary investigations, catch criminals, put them in jail, sue them, fine them and so on. This cannot be the subject of the discussion and cannot be an argument in this discussion. I appeal to my colleagues to support the abolition of § 22 and not to forget that there are non-smoking people in this country.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u73	First line, Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u74	Mr. Simeonov, there were indeed many misleading people who spoke. If § 22 is rejected, as proposed, we will not actually take care of the health of those who smoke expensive cigarettes. The calendar is changed in this part, which applies to smokers of expensive cigarettes. For those who smoke cheap cigarettes, it doesn't change at all. I mean, since there were a lot of health care here, it is better to take care of the health of people who smoke expensive cigarettes, not only for those who smoke cheap. That's the offer in the calendar.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u75	Second line? Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u76	Mr. Simeonov, I fully support you that we must also support non-smoking. However, the support of non-smoking people and the reeducation of smokers does not go towards raising the price of excise duty sharply, you see, cheap cigarettes at the expense of expensive ones. This is not the way, by no means. The way to stimulate non-smoking is another, and it is our common concern, unfortunately, and there are a lot of smokers here. What you're suggesting... You know, I'll only say one figure if the current tax calendar remains, if the current structure of excise duty remains, in 2018 the high price segment of cigarettes will have risen by 0.50 BGN. If we apply the new structure, the high price segment of cigarettes will have increased by 1,10 BGN. So not accepting the new structure means direct lobbying for the high segment of cigarettes for people who smoke the high segment of cigarettes. Because, we want to or we don't want to, we actually stimulate the smoker, only who? The one in the low, or the one in the high, cigarette segment? You will answer who, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u77	Third line? [[National Representative Grozdan Karadjov wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] Let's finish Mr. Simeonov's ass and I'll give you a personal explanation, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u78	Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, of course there is a strong logic in what Mrs Stoyanova said regarding the proportional increase in prices. Of course, it is unacceptable that prices of expensive varieties of cigarettes increase less than of cheap ones, but in the end this was your proposal, not ours, not mine. That was your suggestion. Why didn't you consider it when it was time and when we accepted this calendar? For me, the good solution is to have the same growth, proportional, percentage growth to be the same for both cheap and expensive cigarettes. Another point is that I do not see how this can happen now in the Chamber. I don't see how this can happen! But let's not go back to some difficult solutions on the path of basic human logic, because for me there is no convincing argument for what you are now proposing. I would rather suggest that the old text remain, consider a new text and make a change in three, four, five, six, as many months as it takes. Nothing will happen, 2018 is far away, not next. Next year is 2016. Another argument regarding the care for poor smokers. I don't know why I just remembered how several successive governments did the small business of monkeys to make rooms with increased ventilation, with an alarm, which cost quite a lot of costs to these small traders, sole traders and small owners of restaurants and restaurants, after which all this was removed in one swing and no smoking was allowed in restaurants. Something that hit the business. If we take care of these poor, poor smokers, maybe we should reconsider this norm in the Tourism Act, I think it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u79	Do you care about the personal explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I have been called by Mrs. Stoyanova by name and therefore I would like to repeat what I have said. The question "who?" is the question "who has an account of this Law from this change of excise rates?" is known. We in the Refomator Block know very well who has an account of this Law and we named it. These are the producers of cheap cigarettes. If you don't believe me, Mrs. Stoyanova can read you not only the first line of the statement how much expensive cigarettes will rise, but let's see how many pennies the cigarettes will rise in the cheap segment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u81	I said it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u82	And then let's make it clear that stimulating smoking right in the poor areas of the population is what people who will subsequently need much higher funds for their health care, but will actually contribute much less through their insurance to the same health care, precisely this principle is being violated. Again, the role of excise duties around the world is not to fill the treasury. This is not their original role. Their primary role is to compensate for the costs of society, the increased costs of society from damage to health in smokers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u83	Any other Members of Parliament wishing to take part in the paragraph under discussion? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which is identical with the proposal of the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov for dropping § 22 by importer, which are not supported by the Commission. Vote 128 MPs: 38, against 63, abstention 27. The proposals have not been accepted. I vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 22 which becomes § 23 on the report. They voted 130 MPs: 95, against 31, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u84	Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova for a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create a new § 24: .................................................................................. Article 39a is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u85	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 24 on the report of the Commission, which shall be repealed by art. 39a of the Law. Vote 98 MPs: 82, against 3, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u86	A proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Menda Stoyanova to create a new paragraph, which the Commission supports. Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 words.............................................................................. 3, p. 4 and 6 and 6 shall be replaced by the following: 3, para. 1, t. 4 and 6 (b) t. 2 words. 1, 2 and 3 1-3b, 5 and 6.......................................................................................................... 84, para. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. 84, para. 8, 20 and 21. 2. They're creating an al. 6 and 7: Other than those referred to in paragraph 1 (a) (i) and (ii) of this Article, the following shall be added: 3 the tax period for the persons under art. 57a, para. 1, t. 5 is a one-year-old and coincides with a calendar year. (7) The first tax period for the persons under art. 57a, para. 1, t. 5 shall cover the period from the date of service of the registration certificate under this law until the last day of the calendar year and the last tax period shall cover the period from the beginning of the calendar year until the date of notification of the decision to terminate the registration.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u87	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the new § 25, in its version, on the Commission's report. Vote 89 MPs: 80, no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u88	Under § 23, there is a proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 26, and shall propose the following version: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 47 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 shall be added at the end, with the exception of persons who store, receive and send only quiet and noisy wines and/or other non-alcoholic beverages. (b) c. 7 after the word (c) c. 8 after the words "Active goods', a comma is added, including by depositors identified by a single identification code and a comma; (d) c. 9 after the words the customs authorities and the revenue bodies of the National Revenue Agency are added. 2. The creation of para. 3: The management licence for a tax warehouse shall not be issued to a person whose owners, managers, prosecutors, majority partners or shareholders are or were at the time of the occurrence of the obligations of owners, prosecutors, majority partners or shareholders, members of management or control bodies of persons with outstanding public liabilities incurred by the customs authorities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u89	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 26 in its version on the Commission report. They voted 91 MPs: 84, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u90	Under § 24, there is a proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 27 and shall propose the following version: "The Bible says: Article 3 is replaced by the following: 47a: Art. 47a. (1) Before any transfer of ownership of excise goods put into a tax warehouse which is not an exemption for consumption within the meaning of art. 20, para. 2, the depositor shall notify the authorised warehousekeeper and the National Revenue Agency within 3 days prior to the transfer of ownership of the excise goods to a new depositor. The information to the National Revenue Agency shall be submitted electronically with a qualified electronic signature under the Tax Insurance Procedure Code through an electronic service in the National Revenue Agency's e-service portal accessible on the website of the National Revenue Agency. (2) The information under para. 1 to the licensed warehousekeeper and the National Revenue Agency shall contain the following data: 1. identity of the depositor - full name or name, unique identification code of the Commercial Register or unique identification code of the BULSTAT registry or single civilian number or personal number of a foreigner; 2. address of management or permanent address of the person c. 1; 3. identification details of the new depositor, full name or name, single identification code of the Commercial Register or single identification code of the BULSTAT registry or single civil number or personal number of a foreigner; 4. address of management or permanent address of the person under point 4. 3. 5. type of excise goods with the CN codes and their quantity. (3) After submission of the information under para. 1 if the ownership of the excise goods is not transferred to the new depositor, the depositor shall notify the depositor in accordance with para. 1 the immediately licensed warehousekeeper and the National Revenue Agency. (4) A depositor may not be a person whose owners, managers, prosecutors, majority partners or shareholders are or were at the time of the occurrence of the ownership obligations, prosecutors, majority partners or shareholders, members of management or control bodies of persons with outstanding public obligations collected by the customs authorities, and/or with due public obligations collected by the National Revenue Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u91	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 27 to create a new article. 47a in the Law. We vote. Vote 95 MPs: 89, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u92	Under § 25, there is a proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. There is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 25, which becomes 28, and shall propose the following version: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 2, p. 7 after the word 2. In para. 6 after the words. A comma shall be placed and added to the list. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's,
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u93	Statements? I won't. We vote § 28. Vote 96 MPs: for 86, no objection, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u94	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 29. Under § 27, there is a proposal from the National Representative Rumen Gechev, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u95	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 26 and 27 by importer, which shall become 29 and 30 respectively on the Commission report. Vote 98 MPs: for 89, no objection, abstention 9. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u96	Under § 28 there is a proposal of the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov in art. 52, para. 1 is created a new t. 7. "7." up to the 10th of the month following the report, submit a declaration to the customs authorities with information on the spare capacities in the tax warehouse for each individual fuel type for fuel storage and the contracts concluded, terminated and expired for fuel storage in the tax warehouse. The Office of Customs shall publish on its website the free capacities by type of fuel and shall provide the possibility of submitting the information under the previous sentence and electronically in order, manner and format defined by the Rules of Application of the Law. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u97	Statements? Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u98	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposal that we have made with Martin Dimitrov and our colleagues from the Reformation Block concerns the very problem with fuel prices in Bulgaria. This is one of the measures that we believe would help this problem to begin to be resolved. If you remember, there was a report by the notoriously famous 2011 Commission for Protection of Competition, in which it pointed out that there was a problem with the warehouses of excise fuel, and talked about a concentration of more than 80% of the capacity in these warehouses. The other thing she pointed out in this report is that she had difficulty obtaining this information and a number of other reasons why she could not intervene effectively. What we have suggested in this case is that all licensed warehousekeepers of excise warehouses notify electronically, so that there are no difficulties for business, at the end of each month, of the spare capacities they have in their warehouse. The point is very simple. If this concentration on the market, which the Competition Commission has been talking about since 2011, continues to this day, it is obvious that when a company or related parties control the market, they will in any way look for opportunities to block competition and not allow competitors on the fuel market, and getting to the fuel market passes through excise warehouses, that is, fuels must first be put into an excise warehouse and then be released and sold on the fuel market. That's pretty much how the system works. So we don't want anything troubling, anything that's secret, or any tax-security information. We want the free capacities at the end of the month to be announced and public so that tomorrow, if a competitor, a trader wants to import fuels at a better, cheaper price, to offer them on the market and wants to store them in a warehouse, the storekeeper in question cannot tell him that there is no spare capacity, but whether there is or not. That's the point of our proposal. I hope you'll support him. I pay attention again: it is provided electronically to submit this information and we do not believe that it would represent any trade or other secret that would make it difficult or create problems for the traders themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u99	- What's the line? Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u100	Mr. Slavov, I understand your concern and I share that there is real competition in the fuel market, but the way you propose it to happen is simply not possible because it is not legal enough. The data that you want to be public, available absolutely to everyone, not only to those involved in the process, is a certain business secret. We even under the PDK have a text that the tax and insurance information that contains individualising data is recorded there that also the data of the commercial activity, the value and the type of individual assets, liabilities, assets representing commercial secrecy are such. In addition, on the website of the Ministry of Finance, respectively of the Customs Agency, there is a detailed list of all who have licensed warehouses and anyone who wishes to use such a licensed warehouse by importing fuels can see them and turn to them. As for the fact that someone may refuse to accept his fuel, the fact that he has declared his spare capacity does not oblige him to accept his fuel. Another point is that the Commission has made it clear that the actually licensed warehousekeepers are over 70, that is, we do not have any cartels in this market of two or three or four to negotiate and prevent other importers from entering their warehouses. So I would really support you, but this text is simply not legal and it is not reasonable to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u101	Second line, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Menda Stoyanova explained it so well that I hoped the importers understood it, but obviously they didn't. The idea that if there is going to be a declaration of free capacity somewhere and this will lead to a decrease in prices, sounds to me like that golden rule that if you divide the length of the ship at the height of the mast, you will understand the captain's years of three irreconcilable measures will give you a fourth. I can have a hundred apartments and declare them, but I'll give you an apartment if I want. That he's free and I have him doesn't oblige me. The free initiative is for you to build a warehouse, if you wish, to register it and inside to keep whatever production you want and as much as you want. If I come to your new warehouse and you say, "I don't like you, you're not a paying man, I doubt you. I'm saving it for someone else who will give me more money and I can't in any way owe you and say, "No, at all costs take my products because here in the register it is declared that there are free capacities." Let us understand: You with non-market mechanisms, with an obligation in the Law to put information that is not necessary and should not be there, make us work. What prevents the owners of the warehousekeepers from announcing these capacities if they want to. They say I have six bases in the country, two are empty. Please, if there are willing ones to come and store their fuel, as is the case with the fuel of the state reserve and wartime reserves, however, you are obliged to refresh it, update it. It's the same mechanism with free space. No, at all costs, someone had to declare something because someone else was curious about what was happening. Absolutely not. Whoever has their own space is his own. If someone has free areas and wants to give them to someone else to put their fuels there, it's a bilateral trade contract, they'll understand the type, volume, time, price. So your proposal is extremely irrelevant. And the mention that your proposal would lead to a price reduction or a price increase does not matter at all. The fuel that comes from Greece, Romania or anywhere else at the gas stations costs exactly the same price as what was produced in Bulgaria. The transport costs, the storage capacity stay, the duration and price of these storage costs have in no way affected the final price. And what was produced in Burgas and sold 10 km from Burgas should be much cheaper than what was produced in Greece, came to Sofia and again returned to Burgas to sell. But as you can see, these are volumes, which companies themselves take on inside one works at a loss, another at a profit. Let us not regulate the market with non-market mechanisms and let us not introduce rules that are foreign, on any developed economy, outside the cases, as I told you, on the free areas of the State Reserve and wartime reserves. But even then, the state agency is assessing where it is comfortable and where the conditions are appropriate to carry out such storage of fuels. And a private business to settle with laws, someone to become my employer, that's not gonna happen! Thank you, this proposal must not be accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u103	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u104	Madam President, honourable Members! I'll start with what I heard from Mr. Dimitrov. I am under the impression that he does not want competition in the fuel market and is therefore against this measure. The point of the measure, again, is to create competition in the fuel market, which will logically make prices market, and at the moment market prices? means lower prices than those currently present, as we all remember the analyses and what in recent months is being heard, we also see in the official statistics that Bulgaria continues to be one of the countries with the second or third most expensive diesel in the relevant period, and at a comparable in practice excise levels and rates and a relatively low cost of labour productivity in Bulgaria. That's really disturbing data. All people see it. People, you hear they're talking openly about monopoly, cartel and so on, and now we have to pretend that we don't see it, it seems to me it's not going to be serious. On the heart of the question: why do we not consider this to be a problem, first of all, for warehousekeepers? Secondly, why do we not believe that this is also a problem as tax insurance information? I've already partially offended him. Colleagues, I pay attention, and I will remind you again that the Commission's report on competition has been official since 2011, and they are talking about a concentration of over 80% of the quantities, of the capacities on this market, which means that it does not matter whether there are 30, 40, 50 or more companies involved in the market, since more than 80% of the capacity is controlled by one or related companies. It's obvious we're talking about concentration, obviously we're probably talking about something more. I am left with the Commission to assess whether there is a cartel, whether there is a monopoly and so on. But what they say and have written in their own report that they have a problem with getting that data so they can pronounce themselves and be able to do their job. We propose that this data be public and clear. Currently there is a register in which you can see which are licensed warehouse holders, but you cannot understand how many free capacities there are in each tax warehouse so that you can offer eventually, if you want to trade with fuels, your fuels. What would happen if this change were accepted? It would be that large warehousekeepers who have serious capacities tomorrow will not be able to refuse on a non-market basis, on non-market grounds of a third party who would like to use these capacities for payment. Or, to put it another way, the Commission for Protection of Competition on the basis of this information will be able to carry out a check, to establish under what conditions in a tax warehouse, if there is suspicion that there is something wrong, is negotiated with third parties, and if prices differ dramatically or for certain persons they are dramatically reduced, and others are denied, regardless of whether there are spare capacities, or if there are third parties offered extremely high prices to be accepted for storage of the fuel concerned, they will obviously not be able to intervene and say: "Yes, here is your indication of a cartel, here is it for monopoly, we will impose a penalty, we will take measures. There must be market levels. " - That's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u105	Thank you. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u106	Madam President, honourable Members! We must first admit that in Bulgaria there is a problem in the fuel market. This is the only explanation why the diesel in Bulgaria without taxes was the second, third, fourth most expensive in the entire European Union. It's a similar situation with gasoline. Something's wrong, ladies and gentlemen. And I would ask all of you: what did you propose, what measures did we propose to get out of this situation? Because if we do not offer anything, then we like this situation, so we think it is very nice that the diesel in Bulgaria without taxes to be the second, third, fourth most expensive in the whole European Union. And you know that fuels form the prices of goods. The more expensive fuels, the more expensive goods for Bulgarian citizens. I would ask fellow MPs: just a few minutes ago, colleagues, half an hour ago, were concerned about the poor Bulgarians. If all who were concerned about the poor Bulgarians half an hour ago, now support this measure, there will be a change. What's the offer? The Competition Commission in 2011 says that a company actually holds a large part of the capacities in tax warehouses. At the moment, the KPC is doing a new research and we are waiting to see if this situation is the same. But if the situation is the same, you realize that this affects competition. If you can't get fuel into the tax warehouse, you can't import and the competition is limited. Yeah, there's really gonna be a new CDC, which is an opportunity. I hope this opportunity will be used wisely, not as has happened in the past and as other people have done. But it is very key so that we can change the situation in the fuel market, make it clear to each tax warehouse what its spare capacity is. Tell me, fellow Members, what is the problem with getting information about the tax warehouses by type of fuel at the end of each month, what is the free capacity? This will improve competition, allow importers to see in real time in tax warehouses what free capacity is. This is part of transparency, if you want, is part of e-government, by the e-government. I am interested in people who want an e-government, but often in terms of transparency say: yes, yes, we want an e-government, but now why do we have transparency here, to have accountability? Let's forget the fuel market, it's very complicated. Somewhere else we'll introduce him. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is the fuel market that stirs very deeply into the pockets of the Bulgarians every month. Very deep every month! And more and more people are asking themselves the question: How is it that in Bulgaria we pay more than Germany, more than France, more than Britain? What do you mean? And those people in the National Assembly where we chose them, what do they do about it? What do they offer? And I would provoke, colleagues, if you now reject this measure, to say your better measure! To say: I will not support this measure, which is currently being proposed, because we have better ideas. But I feel like there are no better ideas. And the attitude is to reject this proposal without suggesting otherwise, with which you say the following thing: we like what is happening in the fuel market, and we will defend it as it is the Bulgarian to pay the second, third most expensive diesel throughout the European Union. That's where this is going. And because I believe, colleagues, in your responsibility, that you want to change Bulgaria together for good, I say to you: let us take all the smartest possible market measures on the market. One of the market measures is transparency. By making this market more transparent and more accountable, you will see how prices will start to fall, as it is clear in each tax warehouse how much free capacity is and that everyone can import, looking at these data, you will see how there will be more competition and lower prices. Otherwise, a colleague here, Emil Dimitrov, will mention it by name, very nicely said: the fuels come from different places, I quote it, and the price is the same. That's what he said. Well, how does that work?! If there was competition, could that happen? So something's wrong. And that's what the coworker said. That's a very nice quote on his statement. And how do we solve this problem, colleagues? I dare you all to tell us how we decide it! What are we doing? Now you are given a good solution, which is in the direction of transparency and accountability. Let's back him up! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u107	- What's the line? I won't. Anyone else who wants to make a statement? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 101 MPs: 17 against 49, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 28, which becomes § 31 on the report. They voted 102 MPs: 91, against 4, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u108	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 32. According to § 30, there is a proposal from the MP Rumen Gechev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u109	Statements? I won't. Vote, colleagues. They voted 102 MPs: 92, none, abstention 10. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u110	Under § 31, there is a proposal from the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 34.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u111	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u112	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 55, which says that any licensed warehousekeeper has the right to obtain information from the registers. The motive of colleagues from the Customs Agency is that the registers are already electronic and access is available. However, we maintain that the text remains for cases where there is no access to registers or in cases where there is a need for special information, that registered warehousekeepers can receive this information officially from the Customs Office, except from the registers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u113	- What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see either. I submit the proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs § 31 to be dismissed. Please vote. 90 MPs voted: 20, Against 55, abstention 15. The proposal is not supported. I now put to the vote the text of the importer for § 31, which becomes § 34. Vote 94 MPs: 84 against 9, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u114	Under paragraphs 32 to 36 by importer, which become respectively paragraphs 35 to 39, proposals have been made by the National Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The proposals have been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 32 to 36, which shall become paragraphs 35 to 39.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u115	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 32 to 36 by importer. Vote 89 MPs: 81 against 1, abstention 7. Paragraphs 35 to 39 by Commission numbering have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u116	Under § 37, there is a proposal from the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 40, and shall propose the following wording: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: a) create t. 3a and 3b: 3a. which sell their own electricity generated from renewable energy from a plant with a total installed capacity of up to 5 MW to consumers for domestic and/or commercial purposes; 3b. which consume their own electricity generated from renewable energy for their own use by a power plant with a total installed capacity of up to 5 MW, with the exception of persons using their own household electricity; b) To be created t. 5 and 6: It's five o'clock. which produce and sell biogas for business purposes, as well as persons who produce and consume biogas for their own use, except persons who use their own biogas for domestic use. 6. who import or enter into the territory of the country, consume their own or sell compressed or liquefied natural gas, as well as persons engaged in natural gas liquefaction or regasification of liquefied natural gas. 2. In para. 2 in the text before t. 1 words................................................................................. 1-3 1-3b, 5 and 6. 3. In para. 4. (a) in the text before t. 1 after the word "guides', "public' is added; (b) c. The date of registration shall be replaced by the date of service. 4. They're creating an al. 8 and 9: The registration certificate shall not be issued to a person under para. 1, t. 1, 3, 3a, 3b, 5 and 6, whose owners, managers, prosecutors, majority partners or shareholders were or were at the time of the occurrence of the obligations owners, prosecutors, majority partners or shareholders, members of management or control bodies of persons with outstanding public obligations collected by customs authorities. (9) The persons under para. 1, t. 5 are obliged to meet the requirements of para. 2, p. 1-6.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u117	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 37 of the importer, which shall become § 40 after the amendment of the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 87, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u118	Under § 38, there is a proposal from the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 41, and shall propose the following version: ............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57b The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 sentence first after the words 57a, para. 1, t. 3a, 3b, 5 and 6. 2. In para. The second sentence is replaced by the second sentence. 3. They're creating an al. 15 and 16: When the verification reveals the existence of a circumstance under art. 57a, para. 8, the person shall be notified within 14 days of receipt of the notification to provide a security of no less than the amount of the public debt outstanding. (16) The right to carry out the activity for which the registration certificate has been issued arises from the date of its service.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u119	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of § 38 which, after the amendment of the Commission, shall become § 41. They voted 105 MPs: 94, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u120	Under § 39, there is a proposal from the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 42, and shall propose the following version: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57c the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 shall be added at the end, with the exception of persons who will receive only quiet and noisy wines and/or other non-alcoholic beverages. (b) c. 6 after the word "Survivors', the words "Survivors' shall be added; (c) create a t. 10: ..10. hold a licence, authorisation or registration where required by law. 2. In para. 2, p. 14 the word "house" is replaced by "rooms and/or areas." 3. They're creating an al. 12 and 13: A registration certificate shall not be issued to a person whose owners, managers, prosecutors, majority partners or shareholders are or were at the time of the occurrence of the obligations, owners, prosecutors, majority partners or shareholders, members of management or control bodies of persons with outstanding public obligations collected by the customs authorities. (13) When the verification reveals the existence of a circumstance under para. 12, the person shall be notified within 14 days of receipt of the notification to provide a security of no less than the amount of the public debt outstanding.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u121	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 39 by importer which, after the amendment of the Commission, shall become § 42. 100 MPs voted: 92, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u122	Under § 40, there is a proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 43. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 44.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u123	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote paragraphs 40 and 41, which become paragraphs 43 and 44. They voted 103 MPs: 96, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u124	Paragraph 42. Proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 4 after the word "rooms" shall be added to the list of areas (s) and/or areas (s); (b) To be created t. 7. "7." hold a licence, authorisation or registration where required by law. 2. In para. 2, p. 14 the word "house" is replaced by "rooms and/or areas." 3. In para. The second sentence is replaced by a silent refusal. 4. The creation of para. 7. The authorisation shall not be granted to a person whose owners, managers, prosecutors, majority partners or shareholders are or were at the time of the occurrence of the obligations owners, prosecutors, majority partners or shareholders, members of management or control bodies of persons with outstanding public obligations incurred by the customs authorities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u125	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 42 by importer which, after the amendment of the Commission, shall become § 45. Vote 96 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 5. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u126	Paragraph 43. Proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 43, which becomes § 46, and proposes the following wording: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58c is created In the case of a registered consignor, the person whose owners, managers, prosecutors, majority partners or shareholders are or were at the time of the occurrence of the obligations, owners, prosecutors, majority partners or shareholders, members of management bodies or control bodies of persons with outstanding public obligations incurred by the customs authorities shall not be issued.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u127	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 43 by importer which, after the amendment of the Commission, shall become § 46. 100 MPs voted: 92, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u128	Paragraph 44. Proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 44 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u129	Statements? I can't see. Please vote on the Commission proposal § 44 to be rejected. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's proposal was adopted and § 44 was rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u130	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 47. Under § 46, there is a proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46, which shall become § 48.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u131	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Commission § 45 and § 46 by importer to become paragraphs 47 and 48. Vote 97 MPs: 92, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u132	Paragraph 47. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 47 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u133	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 47 to be rejected. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u134	Paragraph 48. Proposal of the MP Emil Dimitrov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Emil Dimitrov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 49, and shall propose the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 60 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words "natural gas' is 2. A new para is being created. 5 and 6: The production of alcoholic beverages falling within CN code 2208 (Rakia) in registered specialised small distillation establishments may take place only during the period from 1 July to 31 December. (6) Outside the cases under para. 5 the production of alcoholic beverages falling within CN code 2208 (cancers) in registered specialised small distillery after written notification (quest) is permitted to the head of the competent customs office submitted within 14 days prior to the operation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u135	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, yesterday, as you already know, without any problem you have forbidden the poor rakisher to boil his own homemade brandy. Clearly, people don't drink whiskey in villages. Now, however, with this amendment, aside from banning them from producing homemade brandy, I received a call last night from people from Asenovgrad and invited the importers with one big pick prepared for them to dig one, two acres of vineyards to see how to dig. I didn't understand by the tone whether they were called to dig vines or to pick up the pick, that's another question, but now with the suggestions, notice, now also those who will remain basically on fingers counting, we will set a deadline for them to brew brandy. I have a feeling that if the creation of children were to be subject to excise duty, we would probably have a deadline when to create the children. Do you understand the absurdities we're talking about?! First of all, this text... Don't call from there! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u137	Please be quiet in the hall. Respect the speaker!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u138	First of all, this text is a dead text. Secondly, this text creates an opportunity for administrative racketeering of those who will remain who will survive. Therefore, dear Mr President, I am making a proposal in the newly created § 49 t. Two down. Anyone who is slightly familiar with this activity is very clear to him that homemade brandy can boil at any time of the year. Any time of the year! It's a simple and simple truth. Come on, when we took away people and this opportunity, at least we don't forbid them from boiling their brandy. At least let them have it as an opportunity for those who will survive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u139	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? You for a line, Mr. Ermenkov? For a statement. Before you was Mr. Emil Dimitrov. Mr. Dimitrov, are you for a cue or for a speech? Here you go. After you, Mr. Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Yesterday I had the opportunity to say that the election campaign was over. If someone is afraid for both their constituents among the villagers, he doesn't have to lie to them all the time to keep them. On the contrary, to explain what he did for them. The villagers will be able to boil brandy in cauldrons up to 500 liters when, and as much as they want. And that was allowed yesterday. By law, by the way, it's allowed up to 30 liters. I'm sure they don't always report it exactly, but they're right and they'll keep doing it. There were a lot of other things out there yesterday. I heard that the panacea of health care was methyl or so-called ethyl alcohol. I tried tactfully to explain that he was a contact poison, that he blinded himself, died. Apparently, someone in Russia is stupid, but we shouldn't be doing this here. What's the offer? The small, specialized sites, not the grandfather of the village, which are registered, can work in all months in which the Bulgarian nature produces a production that can go into the cauldron after fermentation and be produced. If out of ten cauldrons located in the territory of the settlement system X and the ten work during these months, when both apples and grapes and everything else that makes brandy, they work. If two of these cauldrons decide they can, they have something to do in the winter, they notify Customs and work for the rest of the time. The aim is to work during the time when the sugar fruits are collected and make the brandy, to be all, and those who want, exceptionally, extraordinary, winter "January, February " whenever they want, just to notify. And we don't have to lie to each other. No one stops the villagers' brandy, no one stops Grandpa's brandy. And with regard to the pick, someone stepped on it 20 days ago and still can't figure out where it happened.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u141	Please, Mr. Dimitrov, no personal... A line to Mr. Emil Dimitrov's statement? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Dimitrov, between notification and authorisation mode the difference is very large. When you notify, that means you don't need permission. But when you ask for permission, you have to get it. That is, what you just said was another attempt at deception. As far as harm is concerned, I'd recommend you study chemistry. I'll tell you what the formula of alcohol is: Give him two, huh, five more, huh? That's what this formula of alcohol is known in the student community. Don't try to fool society again. And as for who stepped in the pick, I advise you not to step in the villages, because you will indeed step on it. Thank you. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u143	Thank you. Second line to Emil Dimitrov? Mr. Korman Ismailov, come in!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, my line or rather a question is in connection with para. 6 for the notification in question, a request. It is one thing with a notification to the specific responsible customs office to carry out this activity outside the deadline and another is to request a request for authorisation. Do you understand me? I think there's a problem here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u145	Thank you. Third line? I can't see. Do you want a hole, Mr. Dimitrov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u146	Since you all know about brandy, but I'm not convinced, yesterday someone was talking about methyl, now I've started other things, I won't dwell on anyone's nonsense. [[Laughter on the right.]] Since you all have driver's licenses, I want to ask you: did you pass an exam, did you register, did your car registered, did you pay taxes and from this point on insurance and everything else and use it. Someone wants to run a business, over 500 liters up as much as they can, wants to work, won't be registered. No one will notify, will do whatever they want, and see, at the end of the year, after the villagers have gone, paid to make brandy, the total income of any given, collected by all in the country, divided, is 100 leva. People have paid, and we want this money to go according to purpose, because then they're gonna pay it back for pensions. We're talking about registration. Since you're an object, IRS registered... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u147	Please be quiet in this room, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u148	...this object wants to work, of course you'll notify Customs. You say: I want to work one, two, three months, I have a request for 40 days, for 30 days, for 50 days, you have to get the assurance that someone has found out that you made that request. You say you want to work, you get Customs' consent, you work. In the same way, without a license, you shouldn't be driving a car without a registered car, you shouldn't be driving it without paying the insurance, you shouldn't be driving it. What's different than chasing populism?! Everyone who works will be able to work. Yeah, under certain rules. And in the village the bread is sold, someone has registered their cash register, and in the village the sugar you buy for the brandy in the shop from which you bought it, the man reports it and pays his taxes. When you decide to produce and sell alcohol in huge quantities and do business, be so kind as to register and pay for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u149	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Tasco Ermenkov was fine. He quit. Here you go, Mr. Imamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Obviously this text is aimed at protecting the fissure. That's obvious. And it's a discussion, of course. Before that, dear Mr. President, I would like to declare that I have no conflict of interest. I do not use or manufacture alcohol. [[Radio.]] So I ask all Members who speak from this platform to make a similar declaration. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u151	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u152	Something specific in para. 6 of the proposed text there is indeed a contradiction between the request for notification and in the brackets. In this regard, I propose that what is in the parentheses, namely the word "quest" be dropped.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u153	Thank you, Mr. Imamov. Any lines to Mr. Imamov's statement? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to make another statement. First, I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal, which is point two of the Commission's amendments § 49, to be dismissed. Please vote. They voted 115 MPs: 48, against 60, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Bayraktarov for revoting, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I asked for a re-vote procedure because I was under the impression that many of my fellow Members did not understand exactly what this text required. What I propose is that, as you see yourself in the text itself, first, there are some pitfalls, some contradictions, and then one time, a notice, and then in brackets, a request for permission, which usually means a request for permission. And the most basic: what does it matter, after reducing the capacity of these cauldrons from 1000 to 500 liters, that we limit them and when to boil the brandy? After all, some want to raise money for pensions from this brandy? [[Laughs]] Another question is that I have to explain now to them where this money goes and then how it is distributed. And the third question is that from now on no money will come from this activity. If they have already entered, they will not come in now, but if there is at least a small chance, let us allow these people to carry out this activity under the conditions already adopted and at least have the opportunity to actually enter. This is the whole idea, so I ask you to support this proposal, because it makes at least this part of the Law work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u155	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Revoting Mr. Bajraktarov's proposal, made from the stands, in the edited by the Commission a new § 49. Two down. They voted 120 MPs: 47, against 65, abstention 8. Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal is not accepted. I am now voting on what Mr Imamov's proposal is made from the stands, which is in point. 2 the word "squeeze" shall be deleted. Please vote. They voted 116 MPs: 106 against 7, abstention 3. The proposal has been adopted by the word "quest" in the text, ma'am, is dismissed. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 48 which, after the amendment of the Commission, becomes § 49 with the word'said'. Please vote, colleagues. They voted 111 MPs: 92, against 10, abstention 9. The paragraph has been adopted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u156	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 49 and 50, which shall become paragraphs 50 and 51 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u157	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make a statement. I shall put to the vote the Commission proposal paragraphs 49 and 50, which shall become paragraphs 50 and 51 respectively. Please vote, colleagues. Vote 98 MPs: 92, none, abstention 6. The proposal following the Commission's revision has been adopted. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u158	The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber. The time for interruption is determined. Colleagues, are we yet able to proceed with the necessary quorum for the second vote? Let's check it out. Mrs. Yordanova, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u159	Paragraph 51 "Proposition of the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 52, and shall propose the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 76c the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 4 in the text before t. 1 words.............................................................................. 3, p. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation and for the 2. They're creating an al. 10 and 11: When lubricating oils falling within CN codes 2710 19 71 to 2710 19 93 and other lubricating oils falling within CN code 2710 19 99, are obtained as pre-packed products over 5 litres up to 210 litres, persons may submit one notification of the total quantity of excise goods to be sent from another Member State within the calendar month by one consignor. (11) The provisions of this Article shall not apply to cases under art. 24, para. 1, t. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u160	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 52 in the version of the Commission report. Abort the vote. There is no jurisdiction. Name check. Aidoan Mutalib Ali - here Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - absent Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - here Vili Mladenov Lilkov - absent Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - absent Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - absent Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - here Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - absent Georgi Nikolov Nedev - absent Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - Consistency Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - absent Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - absent Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - absent Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - absent Dimitar Hristov Zhelev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - absent Emil Dimitrov Raynov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - here Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - absent Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - here Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - here Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Kancho Yanev Filipov - absent Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - absent Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - here Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bancheva - here Mariana Georgieva Todorova - absent Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shetreva Belova - absent Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - absent Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - absent Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - absent Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - here Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - absent Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussain Abu Melih - here With the incoming MPs after their announcement from the microphone,.. Alyosman Imamov, Atanas Atanas Atanasov, Angel Naydenov, Atanas Zafirov, Villas Lilkov, Galya Zaharieva, Danail Kirilov, Vladislav Nikolov, Georgi Andonov, Yordan Tsonev, Dimitar Tanev, Dimitar Delchev, Ivan Ivanov, Daniela Daritkova, Krasimir Karakachanov, Dimitar Petrov, Kircho Karagyozov, Mariana Todorova, Georgi Kuchukov, Ivan Penkov Ivan Stankov, Lachezar Nikifov, Methodi Andrey Petrova, Maria Belova, Daniela Saveklieva and Dimitar Gorov, we have a quorum. Let's move on. I shall put to the vote § 52 in its version on the importer's report. Vote 95 MPs: 84 against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u161	Under § 52, there is a proposal from the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: In § 52, the second sentence of Article 83k is amended as follows: The guarantee shall be established with a deposit in cash, a bank guarantee for a period of one year or another type of security under the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2, which shall become § 53.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u162	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u163	Madam President, colleagues, we have made this proposal in order to extend the range of collateral options in these cases of the Law in the issue of certain documents and permits by the Customs Agency on the relevant texts, with the idea that in the end it is an income agency, for collateral under the Tax Insurance Procedure Code (APCC), and we believe that this will ease the business and give the administration more opportunities at its discretion when there are other collaterals to accept them as such. In the end, it is a tax-security procedural code. There are obviously difficulties in the administration, but the reasons that have been set out to the Commission are not in favour of them, and we are therefore making this our proposal and maintaining it. We think it'll help the business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u164	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 100 MPs: 20, Against 56, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 52 by importer, which becomes § 53 in the Commission report. Vote 89 MPs: 79, against 10, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u165	Under § 53, there is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made in accordance with Article 53. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, which is generally supported by the Commission. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 53, which becomes § 54 and proposes the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 84 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3 words.............................................................................. 3, p. 4 and 6 and 6 shall be replaced by the following: 3, para. 1, t. Four and six. 2. In para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 3. In para. 6, p. 9 after the words. A comma shall be placed and added to the list. 1.................................................................................. 4. In para. 7 is created sentence two: "In the cases referred to in art. 64, para. 18 excise tax document shall be issued on the date of the identification of missings on benderols. 5. Paragraph 13 is amended as follows: The tax documents issued under this law shall be kept for a period of 5 years from 1 January of the year following the year in which the tax period to which they relate expired. 6. In para. 18 and 19 words............................................................................................... 20, para. 2, p. 9 and 19s shall be replaced 7. They're creating an al. 20 and 21: In the case of an exemption for consumption under art. 20, para. 2, p. 17 and 18, an excise tax document shall be issued by the persons referred to in art. 57a, para. 1, t. 6 on the date of release of excise goods for consumption. The tax document shall be issued for each recipient and for each vehicle under para. 8. (21) An excise tax document shall be issued by the persons referred to in Article 21. 57a, para. 1, t. 5 total for all quantities of excise goods released for consumption within the meaning of art. 20, para. 2, p. 17 and 18. The Acting Tax Document shall be issued on the date of submission of the excise declaration, respectively on the date of notification of the decision to terminate the registration. The issue of an excise tax document in paper form is permitted without requiring registration in the Information System of the Customs Agency. ...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u166	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 54 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 91 MPs: 82 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u167	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 54, which shall become § 55. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 55, which shall become § 56. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 56, which shall become § 57.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u168	We are voting on the three paragraphs on the report with numbers from 55 to 57 inclusive. Vote 87 MPs: 81 against 5, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u169	Under § 57, there is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The motion has been withdrawn. There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 57 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u170	Statements? I won't. I shall put the Commission's proposal to the vote. Vote 96 MPs: 95 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u171	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 58.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u172	We vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u173	Vote 88 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 5. Paragraph 58 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u174	Under § 59, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the wording of the importer for § 59 and proposes the following wording: ............... 59................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 93 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 words shall be multiplied by a rate lower than the rate of fuel consumption or by a rate lower than the rate of duty rate shall be deleted. 2. In para. 5 the words "marked heating fuel' shall be deleted accordingly. 3. In para. 6 in the text before t. 1 after the word the products shall be added to the energy products under art. 33, para. 1, t. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the 4. In para. 9 sentence first after the word 33, para. 1, t. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the 5. They're creating an al. 10 and 11: "Alinea" 6 shall not apply to excise goods under art. 33, para. 1, t. 2 transported in the territory of the country under suspension of excise duty or under customs transit procedure. (11) In the cases referred to in para. 6, when transporting energy products under art. 33, para. 1, t. 2 is permissible for vehicles to be fitted with only a global positioning system (GPS) and the measurement to be carried out only when loading them. According to § 60, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the wording of the importer for § 60 and proposes the following wording: ........................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 94a, para. 1 words................................................................................. 1-4s are
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u175	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 59 and 60 by importer which, following the version of the Commission, are applied in its report under the same numbering. We are voting on paragraphs 59 and 60 on the Commission report. Vote 76 MPs: for 73, no objection, abstention 3. Paragraphs 59 and 60 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u176	Under § 61, there is a proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal of the MP Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 61 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u177	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 61. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The Commission's proposal to reject § 61 unanimously has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u178	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 62 to 67, which shall become paragraphs 61 to 66 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u179	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for paragraphs 62 to 67, including those which, after being supported by the Commission, are numbered in its report under paragraphs 61 to 66 inclusive. Please vote. Vote 82 MPs: 77, none, abstention 5. Paragraphs 61 to 66, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u180	Under § 68, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made in accordance with Article 68. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the wording of the importer for § 68, which shall become § 67 and shall propose the following wording: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 110th para is A person who has received an excise-free end-user certificate who has not submitted a reply declaration or has not submitted the report under art. 28a within the established deadline shall be punished with a penalty of 500 to 2500 BGN. In case of repeated infringement, the penalty shall be from 1000 to 5000 BGN.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u181	Give her the next paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u182	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 69, which shall become § 68.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u183	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's edited text on § 68, which in its report becomes 67 and § 69 by importer, which becomes 68 and is supported by the Commission. We are voting on paragraphs 67 and 68 on the Commission report. 84 MPs voted: 78, none, abstention 6. Paragraphs 67 and 68 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u184	The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 70 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u185	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 70 by importer. Please vote on the Commission proposal. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The rejection of § 70 unanimously is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u186	There is a proposal from the MP Emil Dimitrov, made under art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules establishing a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 69: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 114a The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the figure s "2000" is replaced by "4000". 2. In para. 2 the figure..4000.. is replaced
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u187	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 69 with its respective content, in accordance with the Commission's report. Vote 75 MPs: for 72, against none, abstention 3. The creation of a new § 69 and its content is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u188	Under § 71, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made in accordance with Article 71. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 71, which shall become § 70, and shall propose the following wording: ...... 70......................................................................... Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 115a and 115b: Art. 115a. (1) Person of deposit who violates the provision of art. 92a, is punished with a fine from 1000 to 5000 lv. For individuals, and with a penalty of 3000 to 7000 BGN. For legal persons and sole traders. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 fine is from 2000 to 10 000 BGN and the penalty is from 6000 to 14 000 BGN. Art. 115b. (1) A depositor who does not submit information under art. 47a, para. 1 shall not submit it within the time limit, indicate or falsely indicate the data under Art. 1. 47a, para. 2, is punished with a fine from 1000 to 5000 BGN. For individuals, and with a penalty of 3000 to 7000 BGN. For legal persons and sole traders. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 fine is from 2000 to 10 000 BGN and the penalty is from 6000 to 14 000 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u189	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 71, which, after editing by the Commission, becomes § 70 in its report. Vote 75 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 1. Paragraph 70 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u190	Under § 72, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 72 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u191	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to drop § 72 by importer. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 72 by importer is rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u192	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 73, which shall become § 71.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u193	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 73, which becomes § 71 in the Commission report, and is supported by the same. Vote 78 MPs: for 77, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u194	Under § 74, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 74, which shall become § 72, and shall propose the following wording: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 124 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words. 123, para. 1, 2, 4 and 6 123b, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European 2. In para. 8 after the words "health services" is added "Children's gardens" and after the words "social institutions" is added "supplied" and "community" is added. 3. The creation of para. 9. The tobacco waste under art. 123b, para. 2 shall be destroyed. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova to create a new paragraph. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 75, which shall become § 73.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u195	Statements? I won't. We vote on the edited version of the importer for § 74, which becomes § 72 in the Commission report, as well as the text of the importer for § 75, which is supported by the Commission, and becomes § 73 in its report. Vote 80 MPs: 73, none, abstention 7. Paragraphs 72 and 73 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u196	Under § 76, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 76 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u197	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 76 by importer. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 76 by importer is unanimously rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u198	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 77, which shall become § 74.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u199	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 77, which in the Commission report shall become § 74 after being supported by the same. Vote 73 MPs: for 72, against none, abstention 1. Paragraph 74 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u200	Under § 78, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 78 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u201	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 78 by importer. Vote 79 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 1. Paragraph 78 by importer is rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u202	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Under § 79, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 79 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u203	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the division supported by the Commission and the Commission's proposal to reject § 79. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The name of the division "Transitional and final provisions', as well as the rejection of § 79 by importer, are unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u204	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 80, which shall become § 75, and shall propose the following wording: ................................................................................... (1) Within two months of the entry into force of this law, the persons referred to in art. 57a, para. 1, t. 3a, 3b, 5 and 6 shall submit a request for registration under art. 57b, para. 1. (2) Until the entry into force of the act issuing a certificate of registration under art. 57b, para. 7 or the refusal to issue the persons under para. 1 continue their activities and have all the rights and obligations of registered persons under this law. Under § 81, there is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 81, which shall become § 76 and shall propose the following version: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) By 29 February 2016, persons who submit a request for the issue of an excise-free final consumer certificate on the basis of art. 24a, para. 4 in relation to art. 22, para. 2, they are entitled to be reimbursed the excise duty paid for ethyl alcohol, which is simultaneously denatured and incorporated in the production of non-human final products, for the quantities of ethyl alcohol purchased from 1 January 2016 to 31 March 2016. (2) The restoration under para. 1 shall be carried out after the implementation of the manufactured goods in which specially denatured ethyl alcohol has been applied for no later than 31.12.2016 under the conditions and in accordance with the procedure laid down until the entry into force of this law. (3) The refund of paid excise duty for ethyl alcohol, which is both specially absorbed and put into the production of non-human final products, for the quantities of ethyl alcohol purchased until 31.12.2015 shall be made on requests submitted no later than 31.12.2016 under the conditions laid down and in accordance with the procedure laid down until the entry into force of this Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u205	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the edited texts of the importer for § 80 and 81, which shall be placed in the Commission report as § 75 and 76. Vote 76 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 5. Paragraphs 75 and 76 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u206	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para 4, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create a new § 77: .... 77......................................................................... (1) The provision of art. 57a, para. 2, p. 5 shall not apply to persons authorised under art. 39, para. 1, t. 7 of the Energy Act, for violations for which criminal decrees have been issued or entered into force until the entry into force of this law. (2) Within six months of the entry into force of this law, the persons under para. 1 bring their activities in line with it. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para 4, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create a new § 78. ...... 78............................................................................(1) Persons falling within the scope of art. 4 t. 8 which, until the entry into force of this Act, have containers with a total capacity of up to 500 litres including, may continue to operate if they submit a declaration to the competent customs office that they are legally and economically independent from any other distillation establishment and do not carry out their activities under a licence granted. (2) The Declaration under para. 1 shall be submitted no later than three months after the entry into force of this law. (3) Outside the cases under para. 1 persons operating as a specialised small distillery site with a total capacity of up to 1000 litres, including, shall be brought into conformity with the requirements of that law within 6 months of its entry into force. A proposal from the N.S.P. Menda Stoyanova, made in the order of art. 80, para 4, t. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly establishing a new § 79. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create a new § 79 with the following wording: ....... 79........................................................................... The provisions of art. 24a, para. Art. 7, Art. 47, para. Art. 3, Art. 57a, para. Art. 8, Art. 57c, para. Art. 12, Art. 58a, para. Article 7 58c, para. 3 shall not apply to persons who, until the entry into force of this law, have issued certificates, licences or authorisations.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u207	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposals to create new paragraphs 77, 78 and 79, together with their respective content in accordance with the Commission report. Vote 73 MPs: 64 against 8, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote. Someone hasn't been able to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u208	I am making a procedural proposal to re-vote the paragraphs that have just been voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u209	Revoting procedure, please. Vote 84 MPs: 74 against 9, abstention 1. Paragraphs 77, 78 and 79 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u210	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 82, which shall become § 80. Under § 83, there is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, which the Commission supports. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 83 which becomes § 81 and shall propose the following wording: ........ 81...................................................................... The Act shall enter into force from 1 January 2016 with the exception of Paragraph 26, item 1 (d) and shall enter into force from 1 February 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u211	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 82, which shall be supported by the Commission and shall become § 80 in its report, as the edited text of the importer for § 83, which shall become § 81 with its respective version of the Commission report. They voted 83 MPs: 72 against 6, abstention 5. Paragraphs 80 and 81 of the Commission's report have been adopted and thus the Second Reading Bill. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: CHANGES IN COMMITMENTS. Mrs. Karayancheva, please present the projects.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u212	Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 85, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly we submit a draft decision to replace and fill the composition of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3, Art. 3. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Petar Kostadinov Petrov and Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev as members of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. 2. He elected Ralitsa Todorova Angelova and Mihail Parashkev Todorov as members of the Bulgarian Policy Committee abroad.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u213	Please vote on the proposed draft decision. Vote 76 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u214	Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3, Art. 3. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Georg Danielov Georgiev as a member of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. 2. She elected Daniela Yordanova Panayotova as a member of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u215	Please vote on the draft decision proposed by Ms. Karayancheva. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The decision is unanimous.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u216	Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Economic Committee policy and tourism The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3, Art. 3. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Katya Nikolaeva Popova as a member of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. 2. He elected Ivan Nikolov Mihovski as a member of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u217	Dear colleagues, we are voting. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The decision is unanimous.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u218	Project! ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Yordan Georgiev Andonov as a member of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u219	Dear colleagues, we are voting. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The decision has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u220	Project! DECISION to complete the composition of the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of the Special Intelligence Means and the access to the data under the Electronic Communications Act The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He chose Stefan Stainov Zhelev as a member of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u221	Honourable Members, voting regime. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The decision is unanimous.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u222	Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition and management of the Internal Security and Public Order Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Rumen Ivanov as Vice-President of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. 2. He elected Petar Kostadinov Petrov as a member of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u223	Honourable Members, voting regime. Vote 79 MPs: 78 against 1, no abstentions. The decision's been made.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u224	Project! DECISION to complete the composition and management of the Commission culture and media The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. She elected Irena Lyubenova Sokolova as member and Vice-President of the Committee on Culture and Media. 2. She elected Daniela Yordanova Panayotova as a member of the Committee on Culture and Media.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u225	Voting mode. Vote 74 MPs: for 73, against none, abstention 1. The decision's been made.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u226	Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Agriculture and Food The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Dimitar Ivanov Gechev as a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u227	Honourable Members, voting regime. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The decision is unanimous.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u228	Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Religions and human rights The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Irena Lyubenova Sokolova as a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u229	Voting regime, fellow Members. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The decision is unanimous.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u230	Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Health The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Katya Nikolaeva Popova and Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev as members of the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u231	Colleagues, we're voting. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The decision is unanimous.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u232	Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova as a member of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u233	Dear colleagues, please vote. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The decision is unanimous.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u234	Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition and management of the Committee on Education and Science The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Galya Eneva Zaharieva as Vice-President of the Committee on Education and Science. 2. He elected Georg Danielov Georgiev as a member of the Committee on Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u235	Voting regime, honourable Members. Vote 73 MPs: for 72, against none, abstention 1. The decision's been made. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE CHANGE TO THE CONSULTATION AGREEMENT FOR CONSULTANT SERVICES FOR THE CONSULTATION OF THE CONCUREMENT OF THE RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND THE PREPARING OF PROJECTS FOR SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT IN HYDROMELORATE AND THE CONSERVATION OF THE MEDICAL INDEPENDENCE OF WATERS BETWEEN THE MINISTRY OF THE EARTH AND FOODS OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE INTERNATIONAL RECOGNITION AND DEVELOPMENT BANK OF 20 MARCH 2014 REFERRED TO ON 24 JULY 2015 The first vote report will introduce us to Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva, Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u236	♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law on the ratification of an Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services to strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture and to draw up draft strategies for sustainable management in the hydromeliorative sector and to protect against the harmful effects of water between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 20 March 2014, signed on 24 July 2015, No 502-02-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 October 2015. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 4 November 2015, discussing the quoted bill. The Commission's work was attended by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food: Georgi Kostov The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Kostov, who explained that the amendment to the Agreement on Consulting Services was necessary due to a delay in the implementation of the national procedures for its entry into force. The Agreement itself provides for the provision of advisory services in the development and implementation of management and development strategies for the sector "Hydromeliorations" with irrigation, drainage and protection of agricultural land against the harmful effects of water. The aim of the project is successful planning for the new programming period of the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 and the creation of adequate projects in the field of hydro-millions The Law proposes an extension of the deadline of the Agreement until 18 November 2015, as well as an extension of the deadline for the submission of the Report on Integrated Hydromeliorative Investment Plans and Leading Projects until 18 October 2015. The provision of the final report will be a prerequisite for sending the first notification to the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 requesting the definition of eligible investments for measure 4.1. Investments in agricultural holdings, investment in the sector "Hydromeliorations'. In conclusion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 12 votes in favour, without the opposition, and 2 votes abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, at first vote, a Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services to strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture and to prepare draft strategies for sustainable management in the hydro-militorial sector and to protect against the harmful effects of water between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 20 March 2014, signed on 24 July 2015, No 502-02-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u237	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karayancheva. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, Members of Parliament. There are no speakers. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services to strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture and draft strategies for sustainable management in the hydromeliorative sector and to protect against the harmful effects of water between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 20 March 2014, signed on 24 July 2015, No 502-02-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 October 2015. Abort the vote. Name check. [[(Radio, noise.) A line from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva: There are people who have failed to vote.)]] I ask the parliamentary secretaries to do the census. [[Replications between Vice-Presidents Dimitar Glauchev, Ivan Ivanov and Yavor Haytov and MP Borislav Veliev.]] I ask the leaders of the groups to assist Mr. Julian Angelov to tell him how many people there are from each parliamentary group. [[Animal in the hall. Replices.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u238	Colleagues, as there is a movement of MPs who additionally entered, I count 13 from BSP [[speaking indistinctly]] , here they are reported by 11 name check according to the general order.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u239	The name of the band!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u240	Excuse me? The name of the group I was going to say BSP left Bulgaria, but you interrupted me and failed to say the full name of the group. How many MPs are there?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u241	One hundred twenty-three.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u242	One hundred twenty-three. There is a quorum, in the words of Mr. Julian Angelov we continue. I put to the first vote the Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services to strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture and to prepare draft strategies for sustainable management in the hydromeliorative sector and to protect against the harmful effects of water between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 20 March 2014, signed on 24 July 2015. We vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u243	We voted it out!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u244	We're not.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u245	We have not voted on this because of the lack of a quorum and this is why the vote is now the first vote. Vote 108 MPs: for 106, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u246	Madam President, on the basis of art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the bill be subject to a second vote at this sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u247	A reverse opinion? I won't. I'm rethinking the procedural proposal. Vote 112 MPs: 108, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Second reading report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u248	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services to strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture and the preparation of draft strategies for sustainable management in the hydromeliorative sector and protection against the harmful effects of water between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 20 March 2014, signed on 24 July 2015. A single member. Ratiated Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services to strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture and to prepare draft strategies for sustainable management in the hydromeliorative sector and to protect against the harmful effects of water between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 20 March 2014, signed on 24 July 2015. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u249	Statements for a second vote? I won't. In the second vote, I put the Law on ratification. They voted 109 MPs: 106, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Next item: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR LOCAL TAXES AND TAXES. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. We're listening, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u250	♪ I can't believe on a Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees No 554-01-173, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov, Menda Stoyanova and Atanas Tashkov At a meeting held on 10 November 2015, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, No 554-01-173, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov, Menda Stoyanova and Atanas Tashkov. The bill was presented by Stanislav Ivanov. There are additions to the current Law on Local Taxes and Fees, as well as the Law on Road Transport. The Law on Local Taxes and Fees proposes the introduction of a new alternative tax to tax the operation of taxi transport of passengers. The taxable persons are the carriers holding a certificate of registration by the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Automobile Administration and authorised to carry passengers by the mayor of the municipality concerned when carrying out the activity or persons carrying out the taxi transport of passengers on behalf of a registered carrier, but on their own account. Limits of the annual amount of tax on the taxi transport of passengers are proposed and the specific amount of the tax will be determined by a decree of the municipal council of the municipality on the territory of which the taxi transport of passengers will be carried out. The tax on taxi transport of passengers will be due for each individual car with which a taxi transport of passengers will be carried out. The tax on the taxi transport of passengers will be declared and imported by taxable persons by 30 April of the current year into the municipality for the territory in which a taxi transport of passengers has been granted. The taxation of the taxi transport of passengers is linked to the authorisation to carry out this activity and therefore changes are also envisaged in the Road Transport Act. A transitional period has been envisaged with regard to the authorisations granted until the proposed provisions come into force for the carriage of passengers by taxi. The authorisations issued shall remain valid for the period for which they were issued but shall not be longer than 31 December 2016. In the subsequent discussion of the bill, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support. The vote ended with the following results: 8 votes for the vote, without the vote against the vote and 7 votes abstention. The Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to support the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, No 554-01-173, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov, Menda Stoyanova and Atanas Tashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u251	Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Grozdanov, we are listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u252	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications shall present ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Local Taxes and Fees Act No 554-01-173, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 6 November 2015. At a meeting held on 11 November 2015, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications discussed the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, No 554-01-173, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 6 November 2015. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova, Deputy Executive Director of the Ministry of Transport, Mr. Krasimir Kalajdzhiev, Deputy Executive Director of the Ministry of Finance, Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Department of Tax Policy, representatives of branch organizations in the field of taxi transport of passengers. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Stanislav Ivanov. The introduced Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees proposes the introduction of a new alternative tax to tax the activity of carrying out the taxi transport of passengers. For all other activities carried out by taxable persons, taxation will be under the Law on Corporate Income Tax, respectively the Law on Income Taxes of Natural Persons. The bill proposes provisions setting limits to the annual amount of tax on the taxi transport of passengers and the specific amount of tax will be determined by a decree of the municipal council of the municipality on the territory of which the taxi transport of passengers will be carried out. The tax on taxi transport of passengers will be due for each individual car with which a taxi transport of passengers will be carried out. It is envisaged that the tax on the taxi transport of passengers should be declared and imported by taxable persons by 30 April of the current year into the municipality for the territory of which a taxi transport of passengers has been granted. There is also a specific order for declaring and paying tax at the beginning of the year, as well as the possibility of recovering the tax paid as a result of the cessation of the activity during the year for which the full amount of the annual tax on passenger tax has been paid. The taxation of the taxi transport of passengers is linked to the authorisation to carry out this activity and therefore changes are also envisaged in the Road Transport Act. The main change relates to the period of validity of the permit for the taxi transport of passengers issued by the municipality concerned, which becomes compulsory one year. A transitional period has been envisaged with regard to the authorisations granted until the proposed provisions come into force for the carriage of passengers by taxi. The authorisations issued shall remain valid for the period for which they were issued but shall not be longer than 31 December 2016. During the debates on the bill, the importers were asked questions about the need for the proposed changes. A serious debate sparked the proposed amendment and addition to the Road Transport Act. It provides that a taxi transport of passengers is to be carried out by traders holding a registration certificate or by persons carrying out this type of activity on behalf of such a registered carrier, but on their own account. Following the debates held on the Draft Law and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 2 votes..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u253	Will the bill be presented on behalf of the importers? There aren't any. I'm opening the debate. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u254	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Stoyanova, why won't you present the motives to your colleagues? Are you ashamed? Are you uncomfortable? Come here to this tribune and tell me why you're bringing in this law. [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Stoyanova, listen to me, because you have my whole speech, it's aimed at you. Yesterday in the Transport Commission, you understood the vote, only 2 votes for the sector and 8 against the abstaining and abstention, the Commission, which must examine this law, which deals with this type of industry, which is familiar with the problems of this type of industry, rejected your proposal. To our question to the other importer who is not here today, I will ask him the question to you: who wrote you this law, Mrs. Stoyanova? Who gave you the texts that you can submit on Friday? Who told you what the problems in the industry were and you changed the Car Transport Act? Until we answer these questions, we will have neither the public nor the people nor the police nor the taxi drivers next week. Because under the gentle amendment, a new kind of tax, an alternative tax, you protect a category of people, a category of companies that have placed a much larger category of people in a position not to be able to earn a living. With the proposed Law you of these people offer to get them more from 400 to 1000 BGN. They now live in taxi cars from 6:00 p.m. to 24:00 p.m. They work 20 hours to be able to lease these people you protect to those who gave you the texts under this Law, to those who for 20 years in this Parliament recruit different people, different lobbys to protect them. Let's put an end to this kind of politics. Can a law adopted on 6 October unanimously by you, by the BSP were 7 - 8 people in the Chamber, unanimously adopted it on 6 October and on 6 November you want to change it? Mr. Dimitrov said this morning, "Ten months." What ten months? They, ten days hadn't gone by, and you've already changed your mind. What did you do with that thing? Say it. If you want to introduce a patent, enter it, but why change the Car Transport Act? What does the Car Transport Act have to do with the patent you want to impose? Did you ask the National Association of Municipalities? Do you have an opinion from them? Are they ready, can they administer this tax, can they collect it, since when can they collect it? There's no such thing! There is no opinion of the Ministry of Transport. There is no opinion of the Ministry of Finance. There is no opinion of the National Association of Municipalities. There are three importers who are genuinely sorry for what he signed and two who are trying to protect him. [[(GERB's reply: Who is sorry?]] There is no way such a Law and such an amendment can be adopted and supported by any Member of the National Assembly. [[GERB lines.]] Excuse me? Who's sorry? I'll explain later who's sorry. One of the three regrets, and now, after that vote, I am sure that many other people will regret it if they support it, so that if you intend to amend the Law on Road Transport, do so in the order in which it is arranged and in which it should be done. If you have to impose taxes, get up and say it, but you can't at 12 without five, yesterday, so quietly in the programme submitted, and had to pass without anyone knowing. You see, people aren't so stupid anymore! They understand, read, watch, excite more than we do. Tell me, who are you defending with this Law? Why did one cab lobby test you and you filed this amendment? To this question, until you answer, the public will not calm down, the taxi industry will not calm down. There are many problems in this sector and they are placed precisely for this reason. Why are you canceling three-year permits? In order not to give people once every three years 50 leva, but to give three times 50 leva. Is that how we relieve them of their administrative burden? Think about what you're doing, and my appeal is real or you can withdraw it, if you can at the moment, we can no longer deal with this purely lobbying amendment in the interests of a small category of people. They said that yesterday. They said, "We're the big ones, and you're blocking us by protecting the little ones." How long are you going to protect these big ones? It's just that in a few months, there'll be no babies, no one to drive their cabs, that's exactly why. And with this tax you want to introduce it, you will pay again the drivers will not pay it the carriers. This person who can't pay 30 leva rents today, he can't pay another 5 leva patent tax. There's no way he's gonna get it. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u255	- What's the line? There's no line one. Statements? Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u256	This is the second time today I've been suspected of lobbying, and this is the second time I'm going to say that I'm really a lobbyist. And I'm a budget lobbyist. I'm a lobbyist for everyone in this country who does business to pay their taxes. That's why I'm a lobbyist! And that is why I am one of the importers of this proposal to amend the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, which says very simply: we are replacing the current tax on profit and/or income tax on individuals who carriers or natural persons have had to pay, we are replacing it with the simpler patent tax so well known, although it is not exactly called that in the Law. The simpler patent tax is annual for a taxi vehicle in the range of 400 BGN. up to 1000 leva. annual fee, tax, local tax. This means that every car that works in Sofia, Plovdiv, Varna, Burgas and so on will pay the municipality a local tax mandatory and not a tax profit or income as it should have done so far. It's not a new tax. He should even be lower than the one that should be paid by now. And there's no reason to cry about people who've never paid the state before. This is my lobbying with this Law. And I think that all of us who use taxis know that what we pay the taxi, part of it should go to the state budget as a tax. We have the other positive opinion of the National Association of Municipalities. They are happy that they will receive another income in their local budget at the expense of the Republican budget, where so far the tax on personal income and income tax has been going. What you're talking about... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] What do you want? You want to take my word for it? You've had your chance to speak. What you are talking about and about which you may have had a debate yesterday in the Transport Commission concerns the possibility for a taxi transport to carry out not only carriers holding a certificate of registration by the Executive Director of the Automobile Administration and permission from the mayor of the municipality concerned, but also persons carrying out a taxi transport on behalf of a registered carrier, but on their own account. This is the tail in question that was canceled and for which you plead. What does that mean? If this queue is gone, as it is now, and this text will enter into force on 20 November, it means that all taxi drivers must be assigned to an employment contract in the carrier companies. These three or four big companies that were on your Transport Commission yesterday. This means that no small business that wants to be with its own car driver or a rental car driver and works for itself will be able to do so unless he goes to register a company under the Commercial Law, does not make registration in the Car Inspection, and there is an obligation to comply with a number of conditions to meet the requirements for this registration, which practically means that he has to put up the covers of his own car or go to ask the big carrier to appoint him to an employment contract, to keep him back from the fees he earns to the big carrier, to pay him the salary that he will then pay, to pay him the insurance that he will eventually pay or not pay him in his own name, to keep the tax on the total income he pays. That's what you want. And we want these people to have the opportunity, as so far, to work for themselves and for their families. On behalf of this carrier, using its permission granted by the administration, providing it with and undertaking an obligation to the Automobile Administration to provide periodic medical examinations to the driver in order to meet the conditions for the driver of the public transport, to carry out technical examinations of the vehicle in order to ensure that this vehicle is fit to carry out public transport and so on. Therefore, this taxi driver will import an annual patent tax of 400 BGN. This is, in fact, the amount of income tax that each employee of the minimum wage should import and that driver will import by assigning him to the carrier of an employment contract, even to the minimum wage. You're just fooling the hall. Unfortunately, you fool a lot of people who work on the street and make a living that way. By deceiving them, you make them go out and protest against themselves that's what you're trying to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u257	First line, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u258	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Stoyanova, I'm sorry if I was a little harsh in your speech, but you really don't understand what you signed. A text has been sent to you, you have tabled changes in two laws and you do not know what this is about. The taxes you say taxi drivers and taxi companies don't pay, in what you offer, taxi carriers won't pay anything again, because they are companies that give cars to expensive leasing, they are not taxi carriers. You're the chairman of the Budget Commission, check out how much tax these big taxi carriers have paid. I'll tell you zero, zero leva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u259	But they held him down...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u260	Yeah, they may have held it, but they didn't pay for it. Even more so, you change the word "leader" by inserting that it can be implemented by the driver. Do you know what that means? To be a taxi driver, you take an exam that you know the city. Psycho, physical, driver's license all this you have to have to go to this carrier, according to you, the great firm, and it gives you the right to be indebted to her for the rest of your life. You are now offering each person, regardless of whether he passed a driving test, whether he has a psycho, whether he has a medical certificate or not, to go and take the car from this carrier and pay him 400 levs. in the municipality or 500 leva. patent. That's what you're suggesting. And when the taxi accidents happen, at least now you can see who the driver is, because somewhere he's registered, then you'll be looking at the ghettos and the neighborhoods who was driving this car at this time. The fact that he paid the city... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u261	Second line, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u262	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Stoyanova! The first question as governor: where is the Minister of Transport? Why isn't he here now that we're talking about changing the rules? Why are you changing the rules? When you were elected as MPs, fellow ruling colleagues, is this what you promised the people who voted to change the rules to raise taxes?! You promised something else. Is that why you had to manipulate the last election for local power?! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u263	On the subject! On the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u264	Is that why you needed those municipalities where the taxi services were concentrated to try to fill the budget of the municipalities? Or are you currently looking for a compensatory mechanism in which your intention for the additional 2% tax on the individuals you have withdrawn is to be in the municipal budgets? You're loading a whole industry with extra taxes. Are you aware of that?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u265	You're lying, Mr. Yankov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u266	Why are you raging people? Ivan Kostov tried to deal with the drivers. Do you remember what happened? That's what's waiting for you now. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You are looking forward to a spontaneous reaction because you are changing the rules because you are trying to impose new taxes on the small business in favor of the big one. You have a right mind, Mrs. Stoyanova. Get out here and disprove me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u267	Third line, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u268	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, I strongly disagree that your lobbying is in the interests of revenue and of fisca precisely because of the tail you spoke about there is buried dog. With this queue, so-called large carriers are allowed not to pay value added tax. That's the point! The single objective of the changes being made is that: large carriers do not pay value added tax, do not register. Therefore, each driver will work on behalf of the carrier at his own expense. After all, the results for the fissure will be zero. Yes, for municipalities there will be a little more revenue and it is normal for them to welcome this. The reaction to this Law is normal, Mrs. Stoyanova. It is unacceptable in this way to bring changes to tax laws in twelve to five, without financial justification, and the results are these, but your lobbying is not for fissure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u269	A hole, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u270	Thank you, Madam President. I will not comment on the last two lines, the second was a frank lie and a deception from this tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u271	Why? Isn't that why you're taking the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u272	However, I would like to return Mr. Svilensky's duplicate, and I agree with part of his statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u273	Madam President, what's the back for?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u274	Mr. Svilensky, I would like to invite you to a working group on Tuesday, because the details that you have said are nice to comment on and correct, if necessary between first and second reading a person, a leader, the necessary documents that should be available, and so on. Come on in on Tuesday, I'll call you about the time, let's make a task force to discuss it. As for the other two lines, I think I clearly and categorically said that this is not about a new tax and tax hike. Moreover, Mr. Iankov said that even now the big carriers take the tax from the drivers, but do not import it. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] And now they'll have to bring it in because otherwise they won't get permission from the municipality. That's the guarantee, Mr. Turnover, that there'll be revenue, unlike now. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u275	Mr. Iankov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u276	Madam President, honourable Members, I ask that we put an end to the debate and continue when the Minister of Transport has the opportunity to attend and say his opinion, because the reaction of the industry will be at his door. He should state to the MPs and through us Bulgarian citizens what his opinion is on what is proposed. It's not just about tax legislation. Please stop and ask the Minister to be invited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u277	Which one should we terminate or be invited to? When we stop, what are we inviting him for, Mr. Yankov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u278	I'm sorry. Let's reschedule!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u279	Call Minister Moskovski. There is no basis for termination of the deliberations provided for in the Rules of Procedure. We're in the first vote. Invite the minister to the Chamber. There's a word for it, Mr. Honest Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u280	Madam President, honourable Members! I wouldn't take the floor if it was just a tax law, although as well as other colleagues, we would have wanted a little more justification in this part, since there was a patent tax until 2009. What was the collection rate? What can we expect from this alternative tax that we are introducing? This is not the reason I took the floor and stated in advance that I could not support this law. The main reason, as other fellow Members have also said, is that we are in fact eliminating regulation in the sector on which the Transport Commission sits very hard and has worked very hard. Maybe four or five months were discussed these changes. To go back to the purely historical plan, the problems with the so-called "droppers" came from the unauthorized fees, the lack of responsibility of drivers, who are unknown how and to whom they are driving. This provoked colleagues from the group of importers who made a proposal for changes, quite revolutionary for the industry. It is true that the taxi industry in the last fifteen years has been developing very strongly. What colleagues say is that a large part of the so-called "taximetre companies" have become leasing companies. To a large extent, this is true. It does not in any way protect the interest of ordinary employees in these companies. With the changes that colleagues proposed and were adopted after many debates and speeches from the non-governmental sector, the opinion of the Minister of Transport, who fully supported these changes, we practically had a new regulation that would have led to an absolute lightening of the industry. Now we are quickly removing this amendment without it entering into force at all, which cannot satisfy us. I would like to say a few words about yesterday's debate at the Transport Commission, as it was very turbulent. Both of these were presented to the big carriers as well as the small ones. It is possible that the legal hypothesis that we adopted in October is not the best. I accept that, but the rapid reaction and the cancellation of this regulation can be just as harmful as the other one. In this spirit, I appeal for rethinking these texts specifically, not the texts relating to the introduction of the patent tax. Perhaps a more serious dialogue and a change in this text should occur between first and second readings. Otherwise, this Bill may remain in the history of the name "Vengeance of the dills" who will return to the airports again and make an absolute lack of responsibility in this sector. Personally, I cannot support this bill in this form. I'll hold off. I very much hope that if it passes at first reading, there will be the necessary dose of common sense to make changes between first and second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-12.u281	- What's the line? I won't. There are registered MPs for speeches. There are no requests for an extension of time. It's 2:00. We'll cut the debate under this Law. Communication of Parliamentary Control on 13 November 2015, Friday, 11.00 hours. First will answer the Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin to two questions from MPs Petar Slavov and Cornelia Ninova. Second will answer Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova to five questions by MPs Magdalena Tasheva, Georgi Bojinov [[two questions]] , Manol Genov and Tasco Ermenkov. The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev will answer two questions from the MPs Dimitar Delchev and Ivan Cholakov. The Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski will answer a question from the National Representative Velizar Enchev. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva will answer a question from the MPs Mihail Mikov and Ivan Ibrishimov. Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer a question from the MP Krasimir Jankov. Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer three questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova [[two questions]] And Tasco Ermenkov. The Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov will answer a question from the MP Petar Slavov. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer one question from the MP Manol Genov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure adjourned replies by seven days have requested: - Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski of a question by the National Representative Metodi Andreev; - Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev on a question from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov; - Minister of Agriculture and Foods Desislava Taneva to two questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Mariana Boyadjieva and Svetla Bachvarova; - the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovaliyski; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova, of a question by the National Representative Manol Genov, and of a question with a written answer from the National Representative Petar Slavov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the responses to: - a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova; - a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov to the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev; - five questions and two questions from the National Representative Slavi Binev to the Deputy Prime Minister of Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin, to the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski, to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski, and to the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova. Due to an international commitment, the Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov and the Minister of Health Petar Moskov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to illness the Minister of Culture Vecdi Rashidov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to a prior commitment to the parliamentary control meeting, Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will not participate. I'm adjourning the plenary session. Tomorrow, a regular plenary session with a starting time of 9:00 p.m.
