ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Vice-President of the National Assembly Mrs. Rositsa Yanakieva has left us. It will remain in the memory not only of its fellow citizens from Pernik, but also of the public and political elite as a human parliamentarians with legislative initiatives, as a person tied to the problems of local authorities, and as a woman actively involved in political and social processes in the country. Please, with a moment of silence, honor her memory. [[Everyone's up. One-minute silence.]] I propose a draft program for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 28 to 30 January 2015: 1. Draft decision to change the composition of a permanent delegation. Importers: Nayden Zelenogorski and Radan Kanev. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act. Importers: Tsvetomir Mihov and a group of MPs. 3. First vote on the bill amending the Tourism Act. Importers: Delyan Dobrev and Daniela Saveklieva. 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending the Chemical Weapons Ban Act and on the control of toxic chemicals and their precursors. Importer: Council of Ministers. 5. Second vote on the Bill on the Court of Auditors. Importers: Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. Adopted on 17 December 2014 in the first vote. 's sequel to last week's debate. 6. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Agricultural Support Act....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 7. First vote on the Pre-school and School Education Bill "Instructors: Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs, and the People's Education Bill: Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. 8. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. 9. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Road Traffic Act. Exporters: Petar Slavov and a group of MPs from 5 November 2014; Second Draft of Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs, submitted on 11 December 2014; as well as a Draft of the Council of Ministers on 8 January 2015. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly is on its usual day Friday, starting at 11.00 p.m. Please vote. Vote 169 MPs: 160 against 6, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules have received the following proposals. Mr. Volen Siderov proposed on the basis of art. 110 of the Rules to hold a hearing of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Daniel Mitov and the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Nikolay Nenchev on the visit of the US Secretary of State John Kerry, UK Foreign Minister Philip Hammond and NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg to our country. Except on the grounds of art. 50, para. 3, offers also by para. 5 At the initiative of the President of the National Assembly, the hearing should be included as a point in the National Assembly's programme for the period from 28 to 30 January 2015. Mr. Siderov, will you support your proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Party "Attack" is to listen to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs in connection with three visits that were very tight in time. In a few days we had, as you know, the US Secretary of State, who doesn't come often, the British Foreign Minister, who doesn't come at all, and the NATO Gensek. These visits were covered with complete disinformation and transparency, not to mention that the media were cut off from an opportunity to reflect in a democratic way, which showed that democracy is not at the level in Bulgaria. There's no telling exactly why these gentlemen came. It was not clear what were the directives of the NATO Secretary-General. There are conjectures left, assumptions left, comments and analyses, which, however, are not based on clear information. Therefore, our insistence is that the Prime Minister of Bulgaria, if he likes, should come here and to the people's representation, explain what they were talking about at the window of his cabinet when he showed him the yellow pavements. A serious attraction, of course, for Sofia, but still the yellow pavements cannot be the only reason for a conversation between the NATO Secretary General and the Prime Minister of Bulgaria. Similarly, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs are obliged to come to present to the public representation, respectively, to the voters, to the Bulgarian public and the media the exact content of the talks. What was asked of us? Because the data shows that Bulgaria is preparing to give NATO military base to Cape Shabla. "Attack" is definitely against it. We have submitted a draft decision to the National Assembly in which we insist on the National Assembly to speak, to take a decision and to come up with a recommendation to the Council of Ministers to prevent a NATO base on Bulgarian territory. There are strong reasons to believe that the visits of these three statesmen in Bulgaria are caused by the desire to involve Bulgaria in military actions. That's why we're asking for this hearing. Please support him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u3	I put to the vote Mr. Siderov's proposal for inclusion as a point in the weekly program of the National Assembly the proposed hearing of the Prime Minister and the two ministers of foreign affairs and defence respectively. We vote. Vote 173 MPs: 48 against 88, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u4	Madam President, I propose a re-voting of our proposal, not only because the day begins with this idea and perhaps some have not yet entered the subject matter, but also because of the importance of this vote, because it is about the fate of Bulgaria, it is about whether we will be involved in war. I think that superficial, frivolous attitude towards this issue is not at all a sign of state-owned thinking. If the National Assembly in the face of the majority and, as we see, some parties that are being led for opposition, but actually vote with the majority, does not want us to know what the Prime Minister is talking about with the Secretary of State of the United States, what are we talking about, what important directions in geopolitical policy will develop and where Bulgaria is going in this regard, I cannot imagine why these people are MPs, because they are here to inform their voters?! If you go to a meeting with your voters tomorrow and they ask you: "Okay, what did Kerry and Stoltenberg talk about with our prime minister?" "What will you say to them, ladies and gentlemen of parliament?" Think about it and revise your vote a little while ago. I call on you to vote for our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u5	It's a rethink mode. They voted 178 MPs: 51 against 90, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. A proposal has been made on the grounds of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria, through the secretary of the group Mr Christian Vigenin, who proposes as a point on the agenda for the work of the National Assembly for the period 28-30 January 2015 to include a draft decision on the need to review the policy of sanctions of the European Union in relation to the conflict in Ukraine. This Project of Solution is with vx. No 454-02-63 of 17 December 2014 with importers Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Last year, in an attempt to find a way out of the crisis in Ukraine and to stimulate the Russian Federation to actively engage in political dialogue and peaceful resolution of the conflict, the European Union has gradually introduced targeted restrictive measures which, at that time, were perceived by the majority of member states as the only effective tool for direct impact. The Russian Federation subsequently introduced countermeasures against the European Union which affected the member states to a different extent. Bulgaria is gradually beginning to experience the effects of these sanctions and counter-stations, with the panting down of Russian economy multiplying the indirect effects of difficulties for exporters, reducing the tourist flow, a decline in the property market and so on. To date, we can find that sanctions have not produced the political result sought, as our partners have repeatedly warned. On the contrary, we are witnessing a deepening of the conflict, a lack of dialogue and, together with this, increasing economic losses for everyone. The painting is getting more and more disturbing. BSP accepts the need for the European Union to be united in its approach, but the BSP does not accept this unity to be around policies that have shown their ineffectiveness and from which citizens and businesses suffer. We want to abandon clichés and spells and Bulgaria to take an initiative for a different approach to the crisis, which will bring peace back to Ukraine and give a chance to normalization of relations between the European Union and Russia. First of all, however, this conversation should be held here in Bulgaria at the Bulgarian National Assembly. Let us in this, hopefully, unbiased conversation not throw ourselves with qualifications for European values and lack of values, not to divide ourselves into philis and phobias, but to be Bulgarians, to show responsibility and reason to hear different arguments and to try to consolidate ourselves around solutions that protect national interest. This conversation must be held as soon as possible, especially in view of the forthcoming extraordinary meeting of the foreign ministers in Brussels this week. Therefore, on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria on the basis of art. 50, para. 3 We propose that the National Assembly's agenda for this week be included for consideration Draft decision on the need to review the EU's policy of sanctions on the conflict in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u7	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Voting mode. They voted 178 MPs: 61, against 73, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. To re-vote, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I do not give myself any illusions that the revoting will change the outcome and this item will come on the agenda, but still, if you decide that there is a point here in the Bulgarian Parliament to put out all the arguments, to try to look a little wider at this problem, to stop walking in the channels and tracks of a policy that obviously does not produce results, and also more difficult to understand by the Bulgarian citizens, then let those of you who believe that these sanctions should be continued that this is the right policy, to state these arguments here in the National Assembly's Chamber, in an attempt to at least explain to the Bulgarian citizens why this policy is necessary. Hiding from this discussion here in the Bulgarian Parliament does not contribute, firstly, to parliamentaryism, and secondly, does not contribute to the policy being conducted to explain and share with the majority of Bulgarian citizens. Therefore, I ask that it be reworded with a clear understanding that a debate on such key and sensitive issues should not be avoided by the Bulgarian National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u9	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. It's a re-vote. Vote 176 MPs: 66, against 76, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. Reports of bills and draft decisions for the period from 21 January to 27 January 2015: A bill to amend and supplement the Law on Access to Space Data. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft Law amending the Civil Procedure Code. Importer Dimitar Bajraktarov and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of Francophones. Importers "Niden Zelenogorski and Radan Kanev. Report on the activity of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period from 11 June 2014 to 20 January 2015. Importer It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Act on the Ministry of Interior. Importers "Hamid Hamid, Mustafa Karadaye and Mehmed Ataman. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Sea. Importers suppose Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Law on the interpretation of art. 22b new, SG No. 109 of 2013, reg. DV, No. 105 of 2014 of the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals. Importer "Mihail Mikov" and group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game. Importers.. Petar Petrov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Environment and Water. Draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Act on the Promotion of Research. Importers suppose Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Education and Science is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests. Importers.. Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics Commission is accompanying. On 26 January 2015, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2015 to 25 January 2015 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2015 to 25 January 2020. No 502-00-4 has received a government programme for the stable development of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014-2018, adopted by Decision of the Council of Ministers No 42. The programme is given to the attention of the parliamentary groups. Dear MPs, yesterday the world celebrated the International Day of Memory of the victims of the Holocaust. This year Europe also honours 70 years of the liberation of Camp Auschwitz. I believe that you will all agree, in today's times it is particularly important to turn our thoughts and feelings to the millions of innocent who died because of a crazy racial theory that puts one man above another, raising ethnic, religious, ideological hatred. Turning to the atrocities of the past today is particularly relevant. We see the fanaticism, the misunderstanding, the pursuit of hegemony in some parts of the world, in some parts of the world close to us. The question that is naturally being posed is how we will live in this world from now on. Our country is located at a crossroads. It was run over by invaders, but it was invariably enriched by the waves of different cultures that flooded it. Living at the crossroads we have learned, we know how to communicate, albeit different. There's a lot of talk about tolerance. We must repeat that unlike other lands, our tolerance has been around for a long time. This is where she's built up by communication. Only with communication, with the understanding of the other, which communication gives to man, we can explain, dear colleagues, one of the most important, most glorious episodes in the 20th century, the saving of the Bulgarian Jews during World War II. The empathy for the fate of our Jewish compatriots at that time is an expression of those relations of understanding in our lands, which have made possible what every Bulgarian knows during Christian holidays the road to invite the rabbi and the hodja of guests, during the Jewish rabbi to invite his colleagues, and during the Muslim holidays, the same to do the Hodja. Let us remember this quality of Bulgarian communication, exchange, understand! Let us cultivate this quality, bring it up in generations after us! We're moving on to the business part of our weekly program. On behalf of a parliamentary group. Mr. Siderov claims he raised his hand first.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u10	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party "Attack" is caused by disturbing facts, which I have already spoken about, commented from this platform, but we cannot fail to make this statement as well. In recent days, the party headquarters of the Party of Ataka has been informed that there is a process of mobilization going on in various cities of the country, so to speak. That is, callers are sent to reserve servicemen, from the reserve, and they get used to it, and then they are told exactly where they will appear in case of need. We've checked this procedure. In military districts in separate cities of the country confirmed this. We link this immediately with the NATO Secretary-General's visit a few days ago. A moment ago, the majority in the Chamber did not want to hear the Prime Minister and the ministers about what was said on this visit, which once again confirms our doubts that at the meeting of the NATO Genset Stoltenberg with Prime Minister Borisov, the Minister of Defence and the Foreign Minister were asked to mobilise Bulgarian soldiers. At the same time, a similar procedure is under way in Ukraine. Currently there are riots among our countrymen Bulgarians in Ukraine, in Odessa region, where the Ukrainian junta, which, just now wanted to drop sanctions against Russia... Mr. Vigenin, I'm very sorry, but I cannot accept this hypocrisy. Mr. Vigenin, you were the one who legitimized the Ukrainian fascist junta when you were Minister of Foreign Affairs. Now you want to cancel the sanctions caused by this junta. This junta is currently mobilizing Bulgarians in Odessa. They rise up in rebellion because they do not want to be mobilized, to go to fight, to kill their brothers by blood and faith. There are riots, literally. There are already sanctions by the government in Ukraine. At the same time, there is a similar process in Bulgaria. What does that mean? For me, both the governments of Ukraine and the Bulgarian governments are vassals of the United States. They're equally puppet governments, and they're working the same way right now. They are told: "Mobilize, start preparing for the participation of your troops in Ukrainian events, the Ukrainian outbreak of war, which we set on fire and will burn even more. " That's what Stoltenberg, Carrie and the English foreign minister of our statesmen said. No doubt about it! The facts speak. You don't have to be Sherlock Holmes, it's enough to logically tie what's going on. A few days after Stoltenberg's visit, Bulgaria agreed to give NATO a military base and command center here to Cape Shabla. Where's Cape Shabla? The easternmost part of our Black Sea coast. This is direct, I don't know if there are 400 kilometers to Crimea. What's the target? It is obvious. It is very clear without being a military expert that the target is Crimea. The goal is that part of Russia, which joined somewhere a year ago in a referendum that Bulgaria, in the face of then Foreign Minister Vigenin, did not recognise. We from Ataka acknowledged it, wanted, we have a proposal here in the National Assembly to be recognized. Of course, both the previous and current government were and are puppet and do not want to acknowledge the people's will in Crimea. But my word is that weapons, missiles will be targeted against Crimea. This will be at the base in Shabla. What do you think, on the Russian side, wouldn't there be an answer to these targeted missiles? Of course there will be. There will be a much greater force. That is, Bulgaria will become the target of heavy weapons targeted here, some of which can literally wipe out our country. I'm not overreacting. Russia will respond naturally to the threat of countermeasures. So we're going to be the subject of a possible military attack. This is what the coalition Borisov, Kostov, Kuneva, Kasim Dal, Simeonov, Karakachanov, Parvanov leads us to. That's what it leads us to, that's what it leads us to. I have tried several times to warn benevolently and in good faith, because it is not important for me here to point out the policy curve of the ruling coalition, it is important to me if it can stand up. Is it possible to stand up? I don't know!? You tell me! You and the Bulgarians who choose, let them say, because we have the example a few days ago in neighbouring Greece how a SYRIZA party took power. Why? For it has declared itself against globalism, because it has spoken what it has spoken for ten years, because it is against the colonial nature of Brussels, because it is against sanctions against Russia, and I mean SYRIZA. And now, at the moment, this party is ruling in Greece. This is a sign, it is a clear sign that things in Europe are going to a situation where peoples are realizing themselves. The peoples of Europe no longer want this policy that Washington dictates to European countries. The Bulgarian people also do not want it, but it is very crushed, very manipulated and is under strong economic dependence, so you cannot hear its voice. That is why the party "Ataka" is the voice of the majority of Bulgarians who, I am sure, do not want the accommodation of a NATO base in Bulgaria. We are launching a campaign across the country, but mainly in the coastal areas, which will be directly affected, against the accommodation of a NATO base. I call on all awake and honest Bulgarians to join this campaign. We must show ourselves united, as the Greeks have done, that we are against this policy, that we do not want to be a US military playground for their dangerous games, that we do not want to fight with Russia, which freed us from Turkish slavery, not the United States, not England, and that we do not want to become experiments in these dangerous Washington games. Bulgarian society must say this clearly. Of course, we are the first, we are the clearest voice, we are consistent, but we are already talking about a historical line that can lead to severe consequences, ladies and gentlemen of the House. I do not know how much or how many of you are aware of this vote just now to cover Stoltenberg's meetings with the prime minister, not wanting to enter a decision that would end sanctions against Russia because SYRIZA in Greece said it was against sanctions and immediately received a proposal from the Russian Agriculture Minister that all of Greece's agricultural production should be bought out from Russia. What will Bulgaria say on this occasion, what will the government say, what will the destroyed industry and agriculture of Bulgaria say? I call on all Bulgarians and politicians, citizens, all public figures to stand as one against the accommodation of a NATO base in Bulgaria. That's still possible. I also call on the ruling coalition Kostov, Borisov, Kuneva, Kasim Dal, Simeonov, Karakachanov, Parvanov: as far as possible and if possible to think for the last time where Bulgaria leads. To make the right decision, because, as I have already said in this tribune, if he does not, he will answer to the court of history tomorrow, and to the court of the people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u11	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. Come in for a personal explanation, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I couldn't help but react to the things that were said. First of all, Mr. Siderov, I would like to congratulate you that for the first time it sounded in your speech that there are Bulgarians in Ukraine and that today you are concerned that they are mobilizing them. As a minister, I would like to say that I was not the first to visit Kiev, but I was the first to put the issue in different formats and organise an entire campaign in the European Union to cancel the decision which deprived minorities of speaking their languages where they have a majority. By the way, thanks also to this, this decision has entered into force, for example, about Bolgrad since September, and there can now be spoken in Bulgarian in the administration. By the way, this decision was in support of both Bulgarian citizens and Russian speakers, so I believe you will also appreciate this. Secondly, Bulgaria has been looking for balance throughout this period and has been trying to find solutions that can contribute to peaceful resolution and dialogue in this conflict, but it is a matter of assessment how and at what time to calculate the risks to the state from taking one position or another. It is not hypocrisy when it was perceived as the only possible solution to impose restrictive measures on the Russian Federation in stages, we should join the common European decision. But it is not hypocrisy when today, seeing the results of this policy, we want a sincere discussion in the Bulgarian Parliament. Finally, I want to tell you that yes, here in Bulgaria, I have paid a high political price and I will surely continue to pay it for a long time, but when I met the Bulgarians there on my recent visit to Odessa, I was pleased to hear from them the following: Mr. Vigenin we know how much you were criticized in Bulgaria, but we are grateful that for the first time a Bulgarian minister stood behind us in a difficult period. So this gratitude you have here. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u13	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" "Mr. Stanislav Anastasov." Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u14	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is again Wednesday, and in line with the political commitment made by the DPS Parliamentary Group, it is time to continue writing the live record of political repression. Chronicles, which contains the names of the people deprived of their constitutional right to work and bread in the public administration, Bulgarian citizens are entitled to all Bulgarian citizens, I stress, all of them, even those who, by one sign or another, are recognized as close to the DPS or who have not pledged allegiance to the new authorities. Increasingly clearer and more visible are the pushers for these dismissals already two xenophobic parties "The Patriotic Front and the Reformation Block." It's strange their silence on this subject. However, the silence of the main object of power is even more bizarre. A party that, unlike the other three coalition partners, is already old, experienced and has drawn the conclusions from the previous government. It is precisely for this reason that there is an expectation from the Bulgarian society that GERB should be the party that has a deterrent effect on its coalition partners, who are eager to make all the mistakes inherent in the inexperienced one. The black statistics of political repression in just one week have increased by another 12 people who have lost their jobs, with them the living chronicle of political repression already contains 307 names and they are: Fired: Georgi Dautev, higher education history, 19 years of internship in the field. In his place was appointed Violeta Ilieva by GERB. Fired: Sewal Aliyev. Higher education - economic, four years of service in the field. There's no one in his place. Fired: Yussain Mehmed. Higher education, 32 years of service in the field. In his place was appointed Vladimir Krumov by GERB. Fired: Antony Ivanov. Higher education - engineer geologist-hydrogeologist, 19 years of service in the field. There's no one in his place. Fired: Esma Ali. Higher education - technical, 13 years of general service. In her place Boncho Bonchev was appointed by GERB. Fired: Zia Khalil. Higher education - engineer engineering technologies, 12 years of service in the field. Named in his place Todorka Makarova by GERB. Fired: Johan Ahmed. Higher economic education, one year and six months of internship in the field, has not been appointed in his place. Fired: Norjihan Sali There's no one in her place. Fired: Filiz Karani, higher education engineer agronomic, one year and eight months internship in the field. There's no one in her place. Fired: Gülchin Mutalib. Higher education astronomy, 10 years of internship in the field in which she worked. In her place Gancho Ganchev was appointed by GERB. Fired: eng. Mitko Mladenov. Higher education engineer forestry with a total of 16 years internship in the field. Georgi Maslarov of GERB was appointed in his place. Fired: eng. Lyubomir Yanev. Higher education forestry, 30 years in the field of forestry. In his place Dimo Kuchukov was appointed by GERB. Fired: Rosen Yosifov. Higher education business management. In his place Georgi Latev was appointed by GERB. Fired: Yunal Mastonov. Higher education engineer, with 25 years internship in the field and management experience. He was appointed Georgi Terziyski by GERB. Fired: Emil Emilov. Higher education energy, eight years of internship in the field. In his place was appointed Kosyo Karlovski of the Reformation Block. Fired: Zahari Velev. Higher education lawyer, over 11 years of internship in the field. In his place was appointed Yordan Naydenov. Fired: Nikolay Dobrev Over nine years of internship in the field. In his place was appointed Milko Stanchev from the Reformation Block. Fired: Nencho Georgiev. Higher education, more than a year's internship in the field. There's no one in his place. Fired, Gülen Fandanli. Higher education, 3 years of internship in the field, no appointment in his place. Fired: Ziya Camber. Higher education legal, 17 years internship in the field. There's no one in his place. Fired: Lyubomir Ivanov. Higher education engineer, landscape architect, over 30 years of internship in the field. In his place Denitsa Slavkova was appointed by GERB. Ali Marekov fired. Higher education, master's degree, with 18 years of internship in the field. In his place was appointed Nikolai Yanchev by GERB. Fired: Georgi Hristov Nenchev. Higher education, master's degree, with 13.6 years of internship in the field. Stoyan Lubomirov was appointed by GERB. Fired: Ilko Georgiev Borisov. Higher education, Master's degree, 20 years of internship in the field. Georgi Georgiev was appointed by GERB in his place. Fired: Ivan Georgiev Yordanov, 18 years of internship in the district. In his place was appointed Trendafil Velichkov by ABB. Fired: Mehmet Musa Tolupov. Higher education, a master's degree with 20 years of internship in the field. In his place was appointed Musa Hoxha of the Reformation Block. Ali Marekov fired. Higher education, Master's degree, also with 18 years of internship in the field. In his place Borislav Chorgov was appointed by GERB. Fired: Ömer Mustafa Hamza. Higher education, Master, with 29 years of management experience. In his place Stefan Mirev was appointed by GERB. Ibrahim Mehmed Mandraci. Higher education, with 22 years of management experience. In his place Dimitar Kitov was appointed by GERB. Fired: Katya Smilenova Shopova. Higher education, Master, there's no job assigned to her. Fired: Mehmet Jamal Shukri. Higher education, six years of experience in the field. In his place Danail Gonchev was appointed by GERB. Fired: Ibrahim Ali Ömer. Higher education, with five years of internship in the field. In his place Krasimir Alexandrov was appointed by GERB. Fired: Musa Mehmed Surtev. Higher education - economic, with five years of internship again in the field. In his place was appointed Angel Kukalev by GERB. Fired: Ali Ibrahim Mehmet. Higher education with six years internship in the field. There's no one in his place. Moosa Mehmed Enger fired. A higher education, a master's degree, with five years of internship in the field, there's no job assigned to him. Fired: Kemal Mehmed Busgov. Master's degree, with five years of internship back in the field. There's no one in his place. Fired: Mustafa Mehmed Pantevsky. Higher education engineer, 15 years internship in the field. There's no one in his place. Fired: Mladen Malinov Palov. Higher education, 15 years of internship in the field, a master's degree and no one appointed in his place. Fired: Sally Himamov. Higher education, two years internship in the field, was appointed Alexander Deshlyanov by GERB. Fired: Miroslav Korutov. Higher education Master, two years internship in the field, was appointed Hristo Spyridonov by GERB. Fired: Zahra Alish. Higher education, Master's degree, 20 years of internship in the field. In her place was appointed Zlatka Zhivkova by BSP. Fired: Galina Nikodimova. Higher education Master in Bulgarian philology, two years internship in the field. In her place was appointed Ilinka Nikiforova by ABB. Fired: Boryana Velinova. Higher education Master's degree in mechanization with two years of internship. In her place was appointed Tsveta Piralkova by GERB. Fired: eng. Kamen Kamenov. Higher education Master's degree in hydrotechnical construction. In his place Ivan Vitanov was appointed by GERB. Shenjan Kortanova fired. Higher education, nine years and two months in the field. Veronica Angelova of ABB was appointed in her place. Fired: Engin Kyuchukov. Higher education - agricultural economy, with more than six years of management experience. In his place was appointed Krasimir Ivanov by ABB. Fired: Ivan Mironowski. Higher education, an engineer who worked for over two years in the system and over ten in the field. In his place was appointed Yane Petkov by GERB. Fired: Anita Kuzmanova. Higher education accounting. In her place Elitsa Vuleva was appointed by GERB. Fired: Ivan Kozhuharov, higher education In his place Emo Kukov was appointed by GERB. Fired: Tsvetanka Krasteva. Varna University of Education with five years of internship in the district, has not been appointed in its place. Fired: Yuzjan Aliyev. Master of Economics with 25 years internship in the field. In his place was appointed Valentina Frankeva by GERB. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thanks for the signal, Mr. Chairman. Clearly, these ten minutes won't be enough to bring up multiple layoffs. Of course, next Wednesday and many other circles will continue to read the lively chronicle of the political repression before its premiere in the European Commission and the European Parliament. And since it became clear that all fired have a higher education, I will allow myself to make an appeal to those who intend to exercise themselves over the biographies and fates of the victims. Let them be so good when they come out here on this stand to declare what diplomas they have, from which university or college, together with the clarification, if there is one, I don't see some people in the room, the Philial of the House, the Center for Vocational Training at the School and when and how they have acquired it. We morally hold this clarification to let the public know who judges and what bell tower does it from. The answer to the question why every Bulgarian citizen will find it himself. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u15	On behalf of a parliamentary group, the word is given by the national representative Daniela Saveklieva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We've just heard a list of some people with higher education, not knowing what positions they were assigned to and then fired, apparently, and the posts themselves were anonymous, but I'll be more specific. In Blagoevgrad region for the first four or five months of the management of the triple coalition BSP, DPS and Ataka, 129 employees from different regional services were fired. They are all proven professionals with the necessary experience and qualification for taking the relevant positions. They were fired for political reasons because they are members or sympathizers of GERB. In their place are appointed people close to BSP and DPS and in many cases these people do not meet the requirements, do not have the necessary censure and professional experience. [[Reply by MP Stanislav Anastasov.]] I'll pay attention to a few more numbers. Of all the new appointments 62 are footage of the DPS, most of which were made in regional services under the hat of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. As an example, I will refer to the actions of the DPS in the Regional Directorate of Agriculture. A report from the Directorate shows that during the management of the BSP, the DPS and the attack on 24 employees were fired, they were all replaced by DPS activists. Director Kiril Ukev, who is also Chairman of the Municipal Council in Strumiani, has been dismissed and is appointed to his place by Mohammed Rushidov. Kiril Ukev has 13 years of experience in the field of agriculture, of which nine in the Municipal Service................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As director he managed to improve the capacity of the district directorate in times, and for the face Muhammad Rushidov and his professionalism everyone in this hall will gain the impression of the following facts. Antonela Dimitrova Donusheva was fired on 5 February 2014 and Ayse Avdikova was appointed director-in-chief of the Directorate-General by order of Mohammed Rushidov and, notice, on a 7-hour working day, although the current establishment schedule provides for the job to be carried out by an employee of full employment. The director now Ukev terminates the relationship with Ayse Avdikova after the explicit consent of the person and against compensation. Daniela Saidina was fired as chief specialist in her place was Ayse Ibrahim Yusuf, with zero days of professional experience. Emilia Nikodimova Valova was fired in her place with zero days of professional experience. Anelia Busarova was fired. She was appointed Isa Yuzer of the position of Chief Expert. The administrator's rankings require a minimum of two years of professional experience. At the time of his appointment Isa Uzer had zero days of professional experience. Also, despite the requirements, he was appointed on a 7-hour working day. Under the incomplete workday scheme is appointed by you and Raim Raimov Zaydenov, with zero days of professional experience. Sonia Todorova has been fired. She has been appointed Severin Baktashev, appointed to the 7-hour workday scheme. Again lacks two years of professional experience and, guess what, Mr. Baktashev has zero days of professional experience. Under the scheme of closing the state, you are firing Maria Kuzmeva as an active member of GERB Yakoruda, after a week, despite the closure of the state, you are appointing Fatime Karahasan. The situation is identical in the Baseinov Directorate and in the Gorski holdings. The situation is very difficult after you in Garmen, Satovcha, Yakoruda and Belitsa. I would remind my colleagues from the DPS that the one quoted by them last week, Plamen Poykov, now appointed director of the State Hunting Department, was actually fired by you and your man, Yordan Boshnakov, was appointed. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] During the management of the holding from Plamen Poykov until August 2013, it was among the winners in the system with the best financial results, and never in its 100-year history was at a loss. In 2012, Plamen Poyukov was also awarded the National Prize "Golden Euro" in recognition of his contribution to the absorption of European funds. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u17	Please don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u18	The report on the financial situation of the hunting farm shows that for the first six months of 2013 the forestry is on profit, but after you appoint Yordan Boshnakov at the end of... [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] ...2013 thank you, at the end of the year it is already losing... minus 102 thousand 777 leva! [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u19	Mr. Karadaye, please don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u20	There's been a lot of layoffs in the town of Garmen again. We've talked about them, but there are others. Asim Ademov and Mancho Djurkin as principals of schools in Dolno Dryanovo and Ribnovo respectively, in their places you appointed Nadie Mulahasanova and Svetoslav Bekov. And how did you develop in education?! The pattern was the same for all the changes. The Head of the Inspectorate calls them and states in a straight text that there is an order from the highest place from Sofia that these people should be fired. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] In this case, they are looking for an application for leaving GERB and a corresponding application for membership in DPS or BSP. There are two options for the callers. The first, if there is no noise and give up alone, at least a teacher's seat is guaranteed. The second option, if he gives up on this, he gets a check that he's gonna find something to get fired for. The checks carried out by the Regional Institute of Health are contrary because they do not appear in the annual control plan of the Regional Institute of Health. The contradiction is with the Rules on the structure and activities of regional inspectorates of education.................................................................................................... 12 of the Rules of Procedure, and is proof of the full trend of checks carried out. Maria Stoyanova, director of the school of Hadjidimovo, left after huge pressure from the head of the RIO. Katya Tutulkova, director of the school in the village of Blatska, according to the same scheme. Emil Bashev from school in Beslen village, Hadjidimovo municipality. He left the month of December after the enormous pressure from the RIO. Lazarina Yaneva, who you are firing from the primary school in the village of Koprivlen, in her place you are appointing Alexander Belchev, who has previously been dismissed disciplinaryly and has lost two cases of return to work. And it's not just those layoffs during, thank God, your brief reign. About 40 members and sympathizers of GERB were fired in Burgas district. Political purges are subjected to municipal councillors. Boncho Bonchev, Head of the Municipal His place is taken by Esma Ali of the DPS. Stoyan Karadzhov, Director of the State-owned Industry, Malko Tarnovo, has been supported by BSP-next Zavarin Gagov. Diyan Dimov, Executive Director of the Port of Burgas, was also fired. His post is held by the Chairman of the BSP District Council Nikolay Tishev, and as Chairman of the Board of Directors you appoint Argir Boyadjiev, who has a scandalous past. He has been brought up as an indictment for deliberate idleness and damage to state property. Boycho Georgiev, Director of RIEW Georgiev was dismissed with the order of Minister Mihailova, at the same time almost all RIEW bosses, pool directorates and national parks were replaced unprecedentedly. Violeta Ilieva, Director of the Regional Inspectorate of Education, you are appointing Georgi Doutev. Radostina Batanova, Director of the Regional Directorate of the Agricultural Fund. She's putting in a motion to leave after she's been pressured, and I'd say a reprisal has been made to search her house, her office, without motive, and without being charged. During all this, she also treated a serious illness. With a higher education. Dobrin Stoyanov, Director of the Department of Social Assistance. His place is Nebrier Hassan Hassan. Nayden Bozhkov, the manager of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, is also fired. The municipal head of DPS in Primorsko Alexander Delchev was appointed. As Director of the Experienced Agriculture Station in Primorsko, the ruling triple coalition appointed Assoc. Anka Zheneva, a pensioner with pre-trial proceedings from 2007 to September 2011, has nevertheless not taken enough care of the management, management, management and maintenance of the property in question or of the work rendered, resulting in significant damage, destruction and spillage of the property. The report could continue with dozens of dismissals carried out during the first six months of the Oresharski cabinet's management and then a year and two months as you managed. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So on every reference, colleagues, we also have one. But at the very least, we are more specific and we have good reasons for everything that we are quoting in this House. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Any other statements? Please come in for a procedure. [[Reply by MP Stanislav Anastasov.]] By this logic, I have to give your entire group a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u22	Only one.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u23	Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u24	Dear Mr. Glauchev, Members of the National Assembly! I have taken a procedure to call on all parliamentary represented forces. Let's stop this work on Wednesday. The truth is that every party that has come to power has put its own people in key places. But didn't we all declare at the beginning of this Parliament that we will already rule in another way, in a different way..... we will appoint only professionals, we will appoint people who have proven themselves?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u25	Where have they proven themselves?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u26	Are we gonna listen to this every Wednesday?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u27	What's your procedure, Mr. Atanasov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u28	This is the procedure to end these things.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u29	There's no way I'm voting, there's no such procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u30	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u31	Are there any other statements on behalf of a group? I won't. We are moving to the first point of our adopted work programme this week: PROJECT FOR A CHANGE IN THE COMPANY OF A STANDING DELEGATION. The representatives of the National Assembly are Nayden Zelenogorski and Radan Kanev. Here you go, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of Francophones The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov as a member of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of Francophones. 2. He elected Boris Borisov Stanimirov as a member of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of Francophones.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u33	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. Please, Members of Parliament, let us vote on your proposed draft decision. Vote 75 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 1. The decision to change the composition of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of Francophones is now a fact. We move on to the next item, second of the National Assembly's work programme, and it is: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE ROADS. Importers are Tsvetomir Mihov and a group of MPs, the bill was adopted in the first vote on 10 December 2014. With the report of the Committee on Regional Policy and Public Works and Local Self-government, we will be introduced by its President, National Representative Nayden Zelenogorski. Here you go, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will introduce you to the Report for the Second Voting of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Roads Act, No 454-01-44, submitted by Tsvetomir Mihov and a group of MPs, adopted in the first vote on 10 December 2014. First, I would ask that we vote on the name: The Law of the Roads Act is amended and supplemented. The Commission supports the wording of the importers for the name of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u35	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the importer for the name of the law, which is supported by the committee. Vote 81 MPs: for 80, against none, abstention 1. The name of the law is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u36	Can we have a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u37	I'll do it. Please allow Mr. Lazar Lazarov the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Road Infrastructure Agency in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u38	Please vote on the proposed admission to the Chamber. They voted 83 MPs: 81 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u39	Please invite the guest. We're listening, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u40	Thank you. Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! § 1 has a proposal from Dora Yankova and the Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is also a proposal from the MP Tsvetomir Mihov: The Commission also supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the wording of importers and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30 the following 1. In para. 3 words "National Company" "Strategic Infrastructure Projects" and sentence two are deleted. 2. They're creating an al. 5 and 6: The Agency shall carry out the activities of the current repair and winter maintenance of Republican roads within the urbanised areas for settlements of up to 100,000 inhabitants. (6) In the event of mutual agreement between the Agency and the municipalities, the activities under para. 5 may be carried out jointly by them under the conditions and in accordance with the rules of application of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u41	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will support the proposal that unites my proposal and perhaps my colleague Mihov. I believe that in this proposal the Committee on Regional Development found the intersection point where the opinion of the Association of Bulgarian Municipalities was clearly heard, together with the position of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, and there is a legal expertise. Therefore, Madam President, I also join here, from the National Assembly stands, I declare that now, in this form, the bill is good. I think we also maintained the authority of the National Assembly to write well-ordered laws, by the rules and by good legal expertise, not purely emotionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u43	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? There aren't any. The debate is closed. I shall put to the vote § 1 in its version on the Commission report. They voted 93 MPs: 91, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u44	Madam President, fellow Members, "Concluding provision." The Commission supports the wording of the importers for the name of the subdivision. ..................................................... The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. The Commission shall support the wording of the importers for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u45	Statements? I won't. Anblok, I vote on the name of the section of the Final provision and § 2 by importer supported by the committee. 100 MPs voted: 96, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE TURISM LAW. Importers are Delyan Dobrev and Daniela Saveklieva. There is a report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u46	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I use the possibility of a procedure to invite the Minister of Tourism, as the specific law under consideration concerns the Ministry of Tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u47	Please invite the Minister. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u48	I'm sorry, but I have to take this. The Minister of Tourism is not in Bulgaria and the Deputy Minister of Tourism is in hospital.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u49	We're listening, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u50	♪ I can't believe under the Law amending the Tourism Act, No 454-01-69, submitted by Delyan Dobrev and Daniela Saveclieva on 19 December 2014. At its regular meeting on 14 January 2015, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending the Tourism Act. The meeting was attended by Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova. The bill was presented by the MP Delyan Dobrev. He noted that the Law governs the powers of the Minister of Tourism as an executive body, in accordance with the National Assembly Decision of 7 November 2014 adopting the structure of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria with which he established the Ministry of Tourism. Tourism Minister Nikolina Angelkova supported the proposed bill, noting that it specified the powers of the Minister, who conducts state tourism policy. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending the Law on Tourism, No 454-01-69, submitted by Delyan Dobrev and Daniela Saveclieva on 19 December 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u51	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. The debate is open. Are there any MPs willing to participate in it? I won't. I put to the first vote a bill amending the Tourism Act, No 454-01-69. They voted 102 MPs: 94, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u52	On the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I am proposing a reduction of the time limit for written proposals for amendment and supplement to the draft of three days adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u53	A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u54	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a reverse procedural proposal to proceed to a vote on the bill at second reading. It is only a few paragraphs - amendments to the titles of the laws - because the Ministry of Tourism is separated from the Ministry of Economy, Energy and Tourism. This is what we have done in other laws related to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, we have always done. I don't think anyone would mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u55	In essence, this is a different procedure than the first. If it is supported in plenary, it becomes pointless to set a deadline for proposals between first and second votes, and I will therefore put your proposal to a vote first. In the absence of an objection and since it is purely technical texts resulting from the division of the Ministry of Economy, Energy and Tourism into three separate ministries, I put to the vote Mr. Dobrev's proposal for the vote of the Law at first and second readings in one plenary session. Vote 104 MPs: 93 against 5, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kanev, report the bill at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u56	THE LAW OF THE amending the Tourism Act (prom., D.V., No. ...) § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7, para. 2 t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." Deputy Minister of Economy, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Deputy Minister of Culture, Deputy Minister of Health, Deputy Minister of Environment and Water, Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Food, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Deputy Minister of Interior and Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports, appointed by the relevant ministers; § 2. Everywhere in the law, the words "the Minister of Economy, Energy and Tourism" and "the Minister of Economy, Energy and Tourism" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Tourism" and "the Minister of Tourism" respectively and "the Minister of Economy, Energy and Tourism" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Tourism."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u57	Statements on both paragraphs and the name of the Law? I won't. Anblok, I vote on the name of the Law and paragraphs 1 and 2 by importer. They voted 104 MPs: 95, none, abstentioned 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u58	"Concluding provisions' § 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 77 of the Law on Health (prom., SG No. ...) the words the Minister of Economy, Energy and Tourism shall be replaced by the Minister of Tourism
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u59	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the name "Concluding provisions" and § 3 by importer. They voted 105 MPs: 95, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u60	............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21, para. 1, t. 7 of the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast (prom., SG No. ...) the words the Minister of Economy, Energy and Tourism shall be replaced by the Minister of Tourism
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u61	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 4 by importer. Voted 103 MPs: 97, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u62	.................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18, para. 4 of the Law on Regional Development (prom., SG No. ...) the words.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u63	Report to her and § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u64	........................................................... The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u65	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 5 and 6 by importer. They voted 109 MPs: 100, none, abstentioned 9. The proposal is adopted, and thus at second reading and the Law amending the Law on Tourism. Moving on to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR THE PROHIBITION OF CHEMIC ARMOURS AND FOR CONTROL OF TOXIC HYMICAL SUBSTANCES AND THEIR PREKURSORS. Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. We're listening, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u66	Procedure for admission into the hall I will ask: from the Ministry of Economy Lyuben Petrov "Deputy Minister of Economy; Ivelina Bakhchevanova "Director of the Internationally Controlled Trade and Security Directorate" and Zara Dobreva "Director of the Legal Directorate."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u67	I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission to plenary. Vote 94 MPs: 92 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u68	♪ I can't believe under the Law amending the Law on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons and the Control of Toxic Chemicals and their Precursors, No 502-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 January 2015. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 14 January 2015, examined and discussed a Draft Law amending the Law on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons and on the Control of Toxic Chemicals and their Precursors, No 502-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 January 2015. The meeting was attended by Lyuben Petrov, Deputy Minister of Economy, Ivelina Bachevanova, Director of the Internationally Controlled Trade and Security Directorate in the Ministry of Economy, Zara Dobreva, Director of the Legal Department in the Ministry of Economy, representatives of employers, trade unions and other civil society organizations. The bill was presented by Lyuben Petrov (Deputy Minister of Economy). According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed bill is to specify now the existing provisions relating to the arrangements for issuing the relevant export, import and transfer documents for chemicals and their precursors within the scope of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons and its Destruction. More clarity will be achieved in the implementation of the Chemical Weapons Ban Act and in the control of toxic chemicals and their precursors and a unique interpretation of the law texts by business and control bodies. A number of laws governing the material competence of the ministers of economy, energy and tourism, arising from the new structure of the Council of Ministers, adopted by the National Assembly on 7 November 2014 are provided for amendments to the draft legislation. Upon conclusion of the discussion and the vote with results: supposed 16 votes and 1 vote abstention. The Economic Policy and Tourism Committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Law amending the Law on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons and on the Control of Toxic Chemicals and their Precursors, No 502-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 January 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u69	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Debates are open. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I regard this bill not as a member and chairman of the Defence Committee, but as a representative of the ABB, because it was not submitted to our committee. The project is in any event timely, in so far as it builds and reacts within the meaning of the requirements of our society following events in Syria and other African countries. In this sense, the draft Law amending the Law on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons and on the Control of Toxic Chemicals and their Precursors highlights to a large extent the existing provisions and, above all, the preparation of documents for the export, import and transfer of such substances. It is positive that the applications make it very clear on the application of the law by consumers, namely the fighting poisonous substances and highly toxic ones. It's a good thing it's al. 5 an even greater firmness shall be made regarding imports of chemical substances which can only be carried out if the State is of the community, i.e. the signatory of the Convention. The positive thing I would like to point out in my speech is that documents for the transfer of chemicals are required not only from the community but also for the community. This will in any case cool and reduce the appetites of illegal importers, which is a practice in Bulgaria, to bring dangerous substances into Bulgaria with the hope that they will quickly take them to other countries and gain profits. Finally, the adoption of this bill will lead to greater clarity when implementing the provisions of the Law on Export Control of Defence-related Products and Dual-Use Technologies. But the most important thing is that the amendment of this law will lead to a clear, repeated interpretation of the law texts by business, the army and the control authorities in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u71	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u72	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I think this bill is just in time for the plenary. In addition to the general, I just want to remind you that it was not far away when in Stara Zagora the optical stations detected the phosgene in the air, which showed that control was extremely low. Moreover, fighting poisonous chemicals, which have been banned since more than 100 years ago, are seamlessly utilized, illegally, in Bulgaria and, unfortunately, in military units. So this bill goes in absolutely in time. I am also of the opinion that the texts are refined in terms of control function. Control must be extremely seriously strengthened to allow repeating something similar to what happened in Stara Zagora. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u73	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote the Draft Law amending the Law on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons and on the Control of Toxic Chemicals and their precursors, importing the Council of Ministers. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u74	I suggest we shorten the deadline for proposals between first and second readings to three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u75	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Kanev. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously. We continue with the next item of our weekly program: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE COURT OF AUDITORS I remind the Members of the National Assembly that Article 23 January 2015 has been reported in plenary. 18 on the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. There are statements that have been made. We are in discussion mode of art. 18 on the report. Which MPs would like to speak? Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u76	Madam President, I take the floor to propose a change in the text of para. 3 where it says:.. In the cases under para. 1, t. 2 "S': the number "S' shall be replaced by the number "S' and the number "S' shall be replaced by the number "S' and the number "S' shall be replaced by the number "S'. 5 is in the event of death and I do not think it is right to motivate a proposal before the National Assembly for an exemption in this hypothesis. Please note that in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u77	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u78	Madam President, honourable Members! Our suggestion is to have a t. 5 to the subparagraph, so that we can oblige the Court of Auditors and its management, we are talking here about the early termination of powers in cases where the laws and the Code of Ethics are not complied with. Laws and ethical rules are mandatory for all of us, we don't need to explain it here. The infringement of these frameworks is grounds for seeking disciplinary liability from the Court's ordinary employees, but is not supported by any sanctions in respect of the Court of Auditors' management bodies. It is unacceptable in the law not to have an obligation for the Court's management to comply with the Code of Ethics, especially in the context of widely disclosed results of internal audits in the Court of Auditors and data for deviation from ethical principles and norms. In this way, for the management of the Court of Auditors, we create working conditions in a comfortable environment, without rules, however, and without requirements for compliance with ethical principles which are otherwise required and applied to all other members of the Court. We also propose the creation of para. 4 to specify how the proposal to take a decision on early termination of the powers of a management body in the Court of Auditors is made, which the Commission does not accept. In my speech, I appeal that you consider and support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u79	Mr. Turnovallisky, you're defending the proposals you've already made.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u80	Which were read.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u81	In essence, you do not make new editorials here, as they are contained in the proposal made between first and second readings in a timely manner by you and a group of MPs. Replies to that statement? I won't. Any other MPs? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u82	Honourable Members, Madam President! According to the current texts of the Law on the Court of Auditors, a procedure for the removal of a member of the Court of Auditors is also taking place in the cases of, and I quote, a grave violation of the law or the Code of Ethics of the Court of Auditors. Now, with the new proposals, GERB MPs propose that the rules of the Code of Ethics of the Court of Auditors should not apply to the members of the Court of Auditors. I think this proposal needs an explanation. If I take the tape back, in the debate from the last days of last week, two members of the Court of Auditors will work on a fee at the Court, while at the same time carrying out their activities as internal or external auditors, legal consultants of audit firms and other organisations. It is normal, since those people who are engaged in other activities competing in practice with the activities of the Court of Auditors, at least while working as members of the Court of Auditors, to comply with the ethical rules themselves. In the preceding text, which we voted quickly on Friday, the text of the oath that the President, the Vice-Presidents and the members of the Court of Auditors have been voted on. I would just like to point out to you here that two of the five Members of the Court of Auditors, apart from this oath, as members of the Court of Auditors, have pronounced and will continue to be subject to another oath, and this is the oath relating to their main activity. For example, if they are certified accountants, they will have taken an oath under the Independent Financial Audit Act and will also have to carry out this oath. In accordance with one oath, they will also have to work in the private interest, in the interest of the relevant organisations which have entrusted them with audits, while being members of the Court of Auditors, at the same time fulfilling the requirements of the oath which they have taken as members of the Court of Auditors. I understand that you do not worry about this collision, but at least there are ethical rules, there are requirements of the Law that Members of the Court of Auditors must comply with and it is normal in cases of serious violations, in cases of violations of the ethical rules, that they are subject to sanctions, including removal as members, because these are in force texts. In practice, you, by your vote and by your Law, have made two members of the Court of Auditors a fee that will also work in the private interest, which have sworn to work in the private interest to which neither the rules of the ethical rules apply, nor will they have commitments to keep professional secrecy, nor do they have any responsibilities later written in the texts of this law. I expect a reasonable explanation to explain: why will the requirements of the Code of Ethics of the Court of Auditors not apply to the members of the Court of Auditors? And why, in cases of serious violations of the Code of Ethics and of the Law, will these people not be liable, including with suspension as members of the Court of Auditors? Two people have been given any authority to work in private, to work in the Court of Auditors, to have huge powers and to have absolutely no commitments, to have absolutely no responsibility at all, not to meet absolutely any requirements. I also draw attention to the fact that these two people will have a decisive vote in decision-making in the Court of Auditors, because of the five members, the President, two Vice-Presidents and two Members, the decisions will be taken by four votes for the Court of Auditors, i.e. those two persons working and for private benefit, will be able to block any decision of the Court of Auditors. Having given them such enormous power to these two persons, it is normal for us to make certain requirements, at least to meet the standard of ethical conduct in the Court of Auditors, so that I ask you, Madam President, that this point be taken into consideration by our proposal, in the event of a serious breach of the Law or the Code of Ethics of the Court of Auditors, be put to the vote separately when voting on our proposal, so that it is clear whether the members of GERB want the two members who will work on a fee in the Court of Auditors to bear some responsibility, apart from the huge rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u83	- What's the line? Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u84	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I want to say that Mrs. Manolova, I don't know why she fixed these two members and not all the leadership. Secondly, the Code of Ethics, the Ethics Rules, are an internal document of the Court of Auditors, which is produced and adopted by the Court of Auditors itself and all the management should also comply with these Ethical Rules, only that what Mrs Manolova is talking about is actually the possibility, if there is a serious violation of these Ethical Rules, that the Members should be removed, that is to say, to terminate the term of office. At first glance, perhaps a large part of you will say: "Well, there is nothing wrong with that. " However, I would like to tell you that the President, Vice-Presidents and Members of the Court of Auditors are elected with a mandate from the National Assembly to be independent and it is ridiculous to remove them in the event of a breach of an internal regulation, but this is not so important. It is important who will determine the serious violation of the Code of Ethics. And that becomes clear to us in the next para. 4 which is proposed by the importers to do so on a proposal from the members of the Court of Auditors itself, which will appear in the role of a court, and the member of the Court of Auditors in question will not be entitled to any objection or defence or anything. There are no such texts in any of the laws that we here in this National Assembly accept for those guidelines that we choose. There is nothing wrong with starting, but if we decide to start this, we cannot step on just some ethical rules that are not a law and their violation leads to removal first. And secondly, a whole procedure must be worked out if we decide to say how and who establishes the serious infringement, to be entitled to this decision subject to appeal, because we are talking here about the eradication of an independent body, and this cannot in any way be done in the way the opposition has proposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u85	There's no second line. A hole, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u86	Honourable Members, Madam President! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, you just said two untruths in your line. The first is that the members of the Court of Auditors, including the President and the two Vice-Presidents, will be responsible for violations of the Code of Ethics of the Court of Auditors and that the Code of Ethics will apply to them. On the contrary, according to the draft law you have written, the Code of Ethics will only concern the Court of Auditors' employees, and the President and Vice-Presidents will have no commitment to meet its requirements, not that there is anything scary about such a Code. In front of me is the current Code of Ethics of the Court of Auditors. There are principles that, in my opinion, are generally acceptable and binding: the principle of professionalism, responsibility, objectivity, independence, impartiality, loyalty, empathy, political neutrality, integrity and incorruptibility, cooperation and constructiveness, that is to say, I do not see any concern as to why the President and the Vice-Presidents, why Members of the Court of Auditors should not comply with these ethical principles. Why? Perhaps you are concerned about the report that was made at the time of the President, broadcast by you, and which has shown amazing things about the relationship in the Court of Auditors itself and about the level of compliance with these ethical rules. Excuse me, it is not true that the decisions will be given by the Court of Auditors almost as a fellow court and will not be taken the opinion of the member of the Court of Auditors, who has seriously violated the law or ethical rules. In that al. 4 simply exclude the person concerned from voting, but the decision on whether to propose to the National Assembly a member of the Court of Auditors for a serious violation of the Law or for a serious violation of some of these principles, such as integrity and incorruptibility, shall be taken by consensus of the other members with four votes. That is to say, with regard to the new Members of the Court of Auditors, the principle of integrity and incorruptibility is not going to apply, neither the "co-operation', nor the "political capital', nor objectivity, nor independence, nor impartiality. I'm sorry, I didn't hear a reasonable argument, except you didn't tell the truth! Well, you exclude those two Members who are on a fee in the Court of Auditors, plus the President and Vice-Presidents from meeting the requirements of the Ethics Code at all. You do not give a mechanism for serious infringement of the Law to remove them from the Court of Auditors. Well, it's a normal procedure, it's a normal requirement for the state's higher audit authority. Once again, I ask that this text be voted separately because Mrs. Stoyanova's arguments have not convinced either me or I suppose none of the other MPs who are listening to the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u87	Any other MPs?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u88	I want a personal explanation. She accused me of untruths.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u89	About the line... [[Reply from rapporteur Menda Stoyanova.]] ...when replicated, it must be borne in mind that the speaker is the last to speak. Are there any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u90	That doesn't mean they're accusing him of lying.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u91	Mrs. Yordanova, then Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, the text you are proposing has also been widely discussed in the Committee on Budget and Finance. There are different suggestions here. Predestinating were not and were not present at this meeting. An attempt is made in practice to borrow the text from the Law on the Supreme Judicial Council, where such a procedure is also envisaged for the termination of powers in cases of serious infringements. But what is the fundamental difference, colleagues? Firstly, this is envisaged in the Constitution as an opportunity specifically for the judiciary. In the Law on the Supreme Judicial Council, it is written in connection with the text of the Constitution. Secondly, in the Law on the Supreme Judicial Council itself there is a whole chapter "Disciplinary Chamber and Punishments." This chapter includes drawing up a disciplinary council, which listens to the person, gathers evidence, requests explanations. Including in this process, the member of the Supreme Judicial Council against whom disciplinary proceedings are conducted shall have the right to an attorney. Once the Disciplinary Judicial Council has taken a decision on dismissal, notice not to terminate the term of office, this decision may be appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court and the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court to appeal to a five-member Chamber, and only when it gives a final decision that there is such a serious infringement shall be brought to an action. That's what's on there. Those who are familiar with the text and the proposal of fellow Members can make the difference and the one which has nothing to do with the other. As we have also talked about European practices during the Commission, I would like to recall something that we have commented on, and this is the Czech Court of Auditors. There is also a collegiate body of 15 members. But there, fellow Members, is a whole disciplinary procedure, once again with a disciplinary council, in which they participate, notice, the President of the Court or his deputy, if that is the case, two members of the Supreme Court also participate in this preliminary disciplinary council, which examines the case and listens to the parties concerned. In practice, the entire production is signed, which runs and in which the party concerned can ultimately defend its rights and provide evidence to its advantage. The decision of this Disciplinary Council, colleagues, can be appealed to the Supreme Court of the Czech Republic only then we say that the term of office can be terminated. Again, compared with your proposal, this is just getting away with it. That is, you are saying, "In violation of the Ethical Code, without specificization, without giving the Member the opportunity to say that he must be removed. Yeah, there's a procedure and there's a vote. We would support you, we have said it more than once, only if such a procedure for disciplinary proceedings has been described in detail. Unfortunately, there is no such procedure in your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u93	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Slavov's statement. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] My head is tight with a look to the left. I didn't see... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] In due time, organize yourself today, Mrs. Manolova. You've been a little scattered since this morning. There's a line for Mrs. Manolova. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u94	You're right, Mrs. Tsacheva. I'll concentrate. Dear Mrs. Yordanova, there is a very significant difference between the examples you are quoting, and I am surprised how you have not been impressed. In the case of the Supreme Judicial Council, proceedings are indeed taking place before him, but the ruling is also the Supreme Judicial Council with regard to his member. Other appeals and further judicial review procedures are therefore possible. In this case, the proposal is only made by the Court of Auditors, the National Assembly is pronounced. You do not expect the Supreme Administrative Court to revise an act of the Bulgarian Parliament? I don't know what you discussed at your Commission. Perhaps there were no lawyers involved in this debate, otherwise they would have explained to you that there were two completely different procedures between which no analogy could be made. It is said that the body electing the Members in question is entitled, on a proposal taken unanimously by the Court of Auditors, to address this issue. That is, if it is argued by the four-member Chamber of the Court of Auditors that the person concerned has severely broken the law or that he is seriously violating the ethical rules, the most normal thing is for the National Assembly to deal with this issue because it is the higher audit body of the Bulgarian state. On the other hand, I do not understand your concerns about how, you see, the Court of Auditors would become a fellow court. This is not about the Court of Auditors, which you have designated and whose chairman is Lydia Rumenova. This is about the Court of Auditors, which you will choose. So you don't trust people in advance who, in a month's time, you will nominate, comment, discuss and choose. You don't sound serious, so far none of them sound convincing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u95	Second line Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u96	Mrs. Yordanova, I am sorry for your speech, you tried very academically to explain to us both with European practice and with Bulgarian practice, only, look, this is about something else. The Code of Ethics contains serious requirements. Mrs. Manolova previously gave in her speech integrity, incorruptibility and so on as examples. A serious violation of integrity, or a serious violation of bribery, and who decides that? Who decides that?! It is decided, Mrs. Yordanova, a court of comrade in two stages. First stage of the Comrade Court of the Court of Auditors; second stage of the Comrade Court of the National Assembly. By the way, on their left, they're all about the communist ways that were used by the comrade court to remove and dismiss people. [[BSP LB]] And that's why they're offering that option. And he who, in their opinion, has severely violated integrity, who will listen to him, who will hear his arguments, who will gather evidence, and what are the evidence of a grave violation of integrity? Or maybe the evidence is that he's not listening to what the party power plants are telling him at the moment he needs to be removed?! You can't understand that, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u97	Third line? I won't. Hole, Mrs. Yordanova. I hope you return the debate to his professional plan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva. After all, from both lines of colleague Stoyanova and colleague Manolova, it became clear that there was talk of a court of comrade. What's this, guys?! [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Don't call from the spot! [[Radio.]] So two thirds of the members of the Court of Auditors...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u99	Mrs. Yordanova, shall the three of us go home? [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u100	...can decide that there was a serious violation. Notice, so six people decide who broke it, who didn't break it. The rights of the Bulgarian court are seized. Well, then let's close down all the courts and let each independent body decide on their own who violates and who doesn't violate. Excuse me, we are the rule of law after all! Once again, if you had made a proposal to sign the entire procedure, then we would have gladly supported you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u101	I believe you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u102	To speak, Mr. Slavov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u103	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm looking at the left-hand side staring at this Code of Ethics, and I find it very interesting how they in time, adopting their law in the last parliament, have decided things. And what do I see they recorded there? They recorded a serious violation of the law and the Code of Ethics. And I ask them here: OK, and where goes the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Auditors, which is practically more important than the Code of Ethics, and you have not included it in this provision?! Look at the law in force. But whatever. More importantly, it's different. I want to ask: what do they mean by a serious violation of the Code of Ethics? And since it's hard for me to imagine right now which offense is severe, very heavy or light and who defines it, I'll ask them, and if they want to answer me. For example, is it a serious violation if a Member of the National Assembly has not submitted a declaration of conflict of interest within the time limit? As for example in the last parliament alone, as far as I know, your only former leader had not submitted it to himself in time! Isn't that a serious violation of the Code of Ethics?! I'm sorry, I actually missed that you in the last parliament didn't accept an ethical code at all, and there wasn't one. Only now did the Rules sign up for such standards. So this is an extremely active and frivolous formulation that you are proposing. He obviously doesn't belong there. It is very clear in the draft on what grounds of incompatibility, conflict of interest, inability to carry out the position of a member of the Management Board of the Court of Auditors [[President, Vice-President]] be released and in what order. Another thing. Not to say that you are constantly picking on each other, but because, with regard to NGOs and their two representatives, I am constantly hearing remarks here, I would like to point out to you that, for example, the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors is one of those organisations which broadcast a member of the Management Board. It is explicitly stated in the law that this member of the Governing Council may carry out an activity related to the independent financial audit. That is, for the time when he is a Member of the Commission, he can continue to do his other job. Here the issue is a possible conflict of interest. There is a competent authority that establishes this, and it is a matter of self-control by the person concerned to comply with this, so that he does not explain tomorrow to the Commission for Conflict of Interest. I will give you one more example in the Deposit Guarantee Act in the banks, art. 9. There the member of the Management Board of the Fund, which is broadcast by the Association of Commercial Banks, is not even voted. He was appointed by the Association of Commercial Banks and became a member of the Management Board of the Fund. Here, in this particular bill, the proposals will be voted on, as we have said earlier, can be rejected, new proposals can be made and so on. Let's think about the particular person and the specific application, not the anblok, because they are bad because the non-governmental sector is offering them. This is not serious.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u104	- What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u105	Maya, why don't you sit in the front of the chair so we don't waste time?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u106	Dear colleagues, I have the feeling that you have announced some competition to give the most unfortunate examples possible. What analogy can you make between the Commission for Public Supervision of Graduated Accountants and the Court of Auditors? Of course, representatives of certain organisations are involved in the Commission for Public Supervision of Graduated Accountants. Persons shall participate in their capacity as graduate accountants. For this reason, I have examined the functions of this committee. For example, members of the Commission for Public Supervision of Graduated Accountants shall not sign any oath at all. It is clear that they carry out activities in the private interest and are therefore guided by the oath which they have declared as graduate accountants. The Court of Auditors is a body that performs senior audit oversight functions in the Bulgarian state. As such, the members of the Court of Auditors shall have public functions. For this purpose, they take an oath to uphold the public interest. The analogy with banking supervision and with the relevant fund is even more inappropriate. Since you like to go back to the past, I will remind you of a report that amazes Bulgarian citizens. It was about respecting the ethical rules and the internal climate in the Court of Auditors, while the management of the Court of Auditors was broadcast by this majority of GERB. There were amazing things about how ethical rules were not respected, about what was happening in the Court of Auditors. So these stones aren't in our garden. [[Reply from MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] These stones are in your older partner's garden. And without preparing yourself on the subject of who has what sins in the election and in the functioning of the Court of Auditors, it is more than inappropriate to attack the left side of the Chamber!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u107	The weather, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u108	Stop saying the same thing!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u109	Make an argument why the members of the Court of Auditors should not comply with ethical rules?! One!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Second line, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u111	Mr. Slavov, I'm addressing you as Mrs. Manolova managed to confuse you in her line. It's one thing not to follow ethical rules, another is conflict of interest. Under the Law on Conflict of Interest, we have recorded very strict requirements for persons under this law not to engage in activities contrary to this law. And they can be removed from the National Assembly if such action is established. I give an example: if the expert accountant in question audited the bank, it does not operate contrary to this law because the bank is not subject to control by the Court of Auditors. As for the ethical rules, which she tried to confuse you with, I would like to explain to you, Mr. Slavov, that in the previous National Assembly, in which you were not present, and therefore you do not know the facts, here, from this tribune were exported false facts from a study in the Court of Auditors regarding compliance with ethical rules. The lady is probably referring to them. Here, from this tribune, it was said that a large percentage of people have said that ethical rules are not respected. She forgets to say that there is a specific question that has been raised: do the ethical rules comply with the management of the Court of Auditors in the face of the President and the Vice-President? And notice, 88% of the respondents said they respected them. So they confuse you with lies, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u112	Here you go, Mr. Slavov, if you're not already confused. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u113	Yes, Mr. Chairman, they tried to confuse me. I will just tell Mrs. Manolova, whom I thank for the line, but the committee is called the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors, not the Committee for Supervision of Graduated Accountants. There's a huge difference between the two. Let's talk to the right names. That's what the law says. So maybe he should look at the law one more time. Colleagues on the left, I did not hear an answer to the most important question.................... what is a serious violation of the Code of Ethics and I asked you very specifically: is it a violation not to have submitted the declaration of conflict of interest within the time limit? You didn't answer me. I was talking about your former leader, who you sent to Brussels for a reward, maybe on vacation, I don't know. Is it not a grave violation that a Member of the National Assembly on such an important matter, under this important law, should not do so within the statutory period?! What's that?! [[The National Representative Tsvetomir Mihov wants the floor for procedure.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u114	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Are there any other statements? There is. In that case, I will first give Mr. Mihov the floor for procedure. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I think it's been said enough. We have all concluded how we are going to vote, so I propose that the debate on this article be terminated. Thank you. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u116	I don't see why you're protesting. It is clearly stated in the Rules that the word is immediately given to a Member of the National Assembly who requests a procedure. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u117	He gave up the procedure. [[Reply from MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u118	Do not enter into a debate from the House! We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Tsvetomir Mihov to end the debate. Vote 91 MPs: 65, against 20, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are colleagues who couldn't vote, so I suggest a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u120	Thank you. It's a re-vote. They voted 93 MPs: 66, against 23, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. The debate continues. Mr. Enchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u121	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! We heard how in the hall with such ease of black is called white, the white one is black. I fully support Mrs. Manolova's position on this text to... [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u122	Sit with them straight away!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u123	Don't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u124	Please give us a chance to hear from the MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u125	I fully support Mrs. Manolova's proposal. I believe that any MP who is reasoning with his head rather than with his party book should support the proposal to vote separately in order to see which one of us and which one of you supports legality, morality and, of course, the Code of Ethics of the Court of Auditors. After you and the Centre have brought two NGOs into the Court of Auditors, which will be in conflict of interest, you are now entering into the Law on the Court of Auditors and lawlessness. Let me read about those of you who are now entering the Chamber and have forgotten what we debated last week: Art. 8. The mandate of the President and the Members shall be terminated by the National Assembly before the expiry of their term of office in the event of a serious violation of the law or the Code of Ethics of the Court of Auditors. I strongly argue that with the amendment you are making, the Court of Auditors' management becomes untouchable by law and by the Court's Ethics Code. Each of you who has closed his eyes to this fact, in fact, if he has a legal education, he spits on his conscience. I am not pleased with the reply of the importer Mrs. Stoyanova for the logic of this editing. As Mrs. Manolova said in the previous sitting, I repeat once again: in the Court of Auditors we will know who is who. Once again, I suggest that this text be voted separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u126	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u127	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Manolova, strong passions have developed in connection with this debate, so I allow myself to take the floor and express my opinion. Indeed, you are very passionately, very ambitiously defending the thesis of including this basis, which, however, I would say, in itself, except in view of the lack of legal specifics, the elasticity of the legal concept, contains the possibility of improper and vague application. That is to say, you want us to put in as an adjournment something that can serve as an ethical staff to end the powers of a member of the Court of Auditors. I appeal to your legal precision. I know that her tracks and experience regarding the application of ethical rules. I remind you that in the debate concerning, let us say, the application of the Code of Ethics in respect of disciplinary proceedings of judges, you supported the different opinion, that is to say, you supported the reserves of magistrates, that on the basis of such a general concept, such as ethical rules, legal responsibility cannot be committed and that there is a ground for termination. I would also like to address the previous speaker, whom I know and very much appreciate as a person and as a public figure, and to emphasise the following. Ethics rules, Mr. Enchev, are higher standards than legal rules. Ethical rules must be followed by all those who strive to achieve more precise, socially more useful behaviour towards society as a whole. The principle is that legal rules are mandatory, legal rules are mandatory. Fashion with ethical codes is a good undertaking, but code and ethics, I would say it is a personal achievement of both every citizen and every citizen who is in a state, public or political position, as well as a political battle or political mission. I'd say we shouldn't take the form, we should look for the contents. More radical content has been suggested. Visified is a specific law. I also appeal to Mrs. Manolova, especially the Law on Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests (STUKI), on which we have worked in the last Parliament and now we must continue to work, should take into account all variations and all nuances of conflict of interest, including, I wish, and those of them who are also ethical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u128	- What's the line? I won't. Mrs. Manolova wants a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u129	Honourable Members, Madam President! Dear Mr. Kirilov, we are in your position. The majority definitely has a problem.. cannot collect a quorum in order to accept the texts of the Court of Auditors. In that sense, I sympathize with Mr. Kirilov. Yes, it is difficult to speak when the only purpose of your speech is to buy time. So, getting into your situation, I'll do it for you. I'm going to ask you for one roll call check in connection with the next vote. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u130	There's no vote. You must learn the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u131	Okay, when it comes to voting, a roll call check, so that the majority can be gathered, to count, to see which of the coalition partners is absent from the Chamber, why it is absent, and we will, during that time, go to develop a procedure for how to move the disciplinary women under the Ethics Code in the Court of Auditors and not interfere with your coalition dispute. In connection with the upcoming vote, I want a name check.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u132	The request is premature. The debate isn't closed, we haven't passed the vote. The debate continues. Mr. Lazarov, what do you want?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u133	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u134	Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u135	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I understand that some Members have claims of parliamentarians in quite a number of Chambers of the National Assembly or have not read the Rules of Procedure, where it is said when this procedure is sought before a vote, or simply abuse the people's representation to engage us and make political statements in the form of a procedure. Please, there is no point in listening to 2 minutes to justify a name check, provided that we have not yet closed the debate. I also come into your position, Madam President, that it is not always possible to read the Rules of Procedure of certain Members every day. Please, if not, at least recommend that they read it so that you don't read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u136	Mr. Lazarov, you're doing a procedure for me in the manner of conduct. You have obviously spontaneously reacted to Mrs Manolova's proposal and have not been able to hear the two minutes at which I am entitled to the Rules of Procedure, which I have reduced to a few seconds, but I have announced that the request is premature and that it will not be admitted to the procedure in which the debates are still taking place. So my request is that we listen to each other, so that I don't lose now and I with an explanation of plenary time. Statements by MPs? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u137	Thank you, Madam President. I didn't mean to speak, but after Mrs. Manolova's passionate speech, which I sound here, the defense of what they offered, I just couldn't resist, so I took the floor. Dear colleagues, what do colleagues defend on the left, you know? They are defending the comrade court. They've introduced some notions here as a grave violation. Well, how serious is this violation, Mrs. Manolova? Let's put some markings on him for an oversized load so we know it's gonna be like this. [[Happy excitement in GERB, comments from the National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Mrs. Manolova, as long as we offer... [[Relations from the National Representative Maya Manolova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u138	Please don't enter into a personal discussion! To the hall, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u139	I apologize, Madam President. My fellow Members, what we are proposing in the bill as an amendment is a clearly written procedure in which Members of the Court of Auditors may be released. What do the coworkers suggest? They offer a concept of serious violations. Who finds them, what are these severe violations, how severe they will be, will there be any degree of gradation of these severe violations? Nobody knows that. We will simply dismiss the members of the Court of Auditors. So it's a comrade's court, decides that something's getting in their way, and we need to get it out of the way. Is that what's democratic about what's being proposed? No, you just want to fulfill your narrow party interests that are visible in this bill. That's how it used to be. Last year, when we were arguing about the Law on the Court of Auditors, many speeches were in the spirit of.....................the changes that you are making............ so that a body does not happen to become a repressive apparatus of the government. This was so far in the Law of the Court of Auditors, which is what you want to do with the new bill. Therefore, Mrs. Manolova, when you propose these changes, be a little more democratic. Don't just look at your narrow party interests. Come out now, even if you want to, in the form of a personal explanation, explain to me what you have against the procedure scheduled and what the so much more the notion of serious violations is suggesting if they are not described, it is not described who will identify them and what will happen with two thirds of the members can be taken the decision. This is unacceptable, and I think that this text should not be supported in order to be able to really move towards the democratisation of this law. Colleagues, please, I say again, let us not support this text, on the one hand, and on the other, let someone come out and explain what the terms of the serious infringements are, as they have suggested. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u140	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u141	Dear Mr. Ivanov, your question is clear and legal. Generally lately, years back is seen in the practice of how administrative laws which provide for the imposition of administrative penalties are, in principle, the requirement to indicate separate compositions of administrative infringements which, in carrying out the signs of this infringement, imply the imposition of administrative penalties. The practice in the last 7, 8, 10 years is because when drafting the laws, because of incompetence, ignorance of matter, no separate compositions of violations are indicated, but a common text is put on the table: a punishment is envisaged for breaking this law....................................................................... What you're saying sounds the same. Yes, if in these ethical rules there were separate compositions in the form, although not of a law, it could be assumed, referring to the implementation of these compositions, to the assumption that this is a serious infringement. Mrs. Manolova left because the question was also to her.. There is usually a legal definition in the laws.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u142	He won't answer. He's running.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u143	I give you an example right away in the Penal Code. It tells you what a punishment means when more than 5 years of imprisonment is envisaged and so on. Well, all lawyers will agree. The answer to the question of what is the meaning of a serious infringement is none, which is why it is nonsense to refer to these ethical rules in this form without procedure who, how, when it establishes this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u144	Second line? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ivanov, I would like to say that I do not agree with you at all. You now want to explain to you what a serious violation is, then we will enter into action exponents, someone will want to explain what a slight violation is. In fact, what is it about, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Ivanov? It is about an absolute blanket document that no one has bothered to read, called the Code of Ethics, which contains 2 sides of the code, which is the great Code of Ethics that is only put in there to deal with something! And this Code of Ethics, notice, first of all, repeats all the texts that are regulated in the Labour Code. The powers and obligations themselves, Mr. Ivanov, of the employees of the Court of Auditors, are regulated precisely in the Labour Code. And I ask you, this text, which has a purely recommended and some wishful thinking, to be ethical, to be loyal, to come to work regularly, not to be late, is that what we are discussing today, and this is the great text to which Mrs... I'm not going to say her name, she knows her name, she's been working here for 20 minutes of crazy pleadings, and the other gentleman who thinks he's in front of the recruited officer, hardly has any legal... It's just funny, guys! And, Mr. Ivanov, I don't agree with you, sorry. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u146	Is there a third line? I won't, because they took your arguments. It's a hole. Will you answer, Mr. Ivanov? You have no desire. An exhibition dedicated to the anniversary of the victims of the Holocaust will be opened in the northern lobby of the National Assembly. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u147	Honourable Members, we are continuing the meeting. There's no quorum visible, so we're starting a roll call. Please provide the list of Members of the National Assembly: Aidoan Mutalib Ali-here. Ayhan Ahmed Etem here. Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- absent Alexander Hristov Metodiev- absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov- absent Altimir Emilov Adamov- absent Ana Georgieva Barakova- absent Angel Petrov Naydenov- here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev- here Antony Antonyev Trenchev- absent Atanas Zafirov- Zafirov is absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Atanasov- here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov- absent Atanas Todorov Merdjanov- here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov- here Boris Yankov Yachev- here Borislav Lyubenov Veliev- here. Please record those who enter. Borislav Mihailov Borisov- absent Borislav Rajchov Milanov- absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev- absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan-here. Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- here Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov- here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov- absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov- absent Valentin Stefanov Vasilev- absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- absent Vasil Milanov Antonov- absent Velizar Penkov Enchev- here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov- absent Willy Mladenov Lilkov- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- absent Volen Nikolov Siderov- absent Vyara Mihaylova Tzerovska- here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Simeonova Georgieva- here Georg Danielov Georgiev- here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev- absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov- here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov- here Georgi Nikolov Nedev- absent Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev- here Georgi Strahilov Svilenski- here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov- here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov- absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- here Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov- here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen here. Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov- here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Darin Ivanov Dimitrov- here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev- absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov- here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Ivanova Yordanova- here Dimitar Angelov Gorov- here Dimitar Andreev Delchev- absent Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov- here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov- here Dimitar Krumov Tanev- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov- absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev-here Dimitar Hristov Zhelev here Dobrin Nenov Danev- here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov- here Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa- here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Emil Dimitrov Reinov- absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin-here Erdingh Ismail Hajrula- absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov- here Zdravko Dimitrov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov- here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov- here Ivan Penkov Ivanov- here Ivan Slavov Ivanov- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Stoev Cholakov- here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov- here Ilian Sashov Todorov- here Iliya Yankov Iliev- absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva- here Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova- here Kamen Kostov Kostadinov- absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova- here Cyril Andonov Kotev- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin is absent. Cyril Dobrev Dobrev- here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev- absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev- here Kircho Georgiev Karagyozov- here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Korman Yakubov Ismailov- absent Cornelia Dobreva Marinova- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov- here Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Petrov Petrov- here Krasimir Hristov Jankov- here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka- here Krasimira Peneva Anastasova- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin- here Kancho Yanev Filipov- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov- here Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov- here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan-here Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva- missing Mariana Georgieva Todorova- here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov- here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov- here Maya Bozhidarova Manolova - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Method Borisov Andreev- here Mehmet Umer Ataman here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova- here Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Mithat Sabri Metin is missing Mikhail Raykov Mikov- absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov- here Musa Cemal Palev here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- here. Mustafa Fahri Ahmed here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski- here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev- here Nevin Halil Hassan-- here. Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Neno Hristov Vlaikov- here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski- here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Petar Vladislavov Slavov- here Petar Georgiev Kadiev- here Petar Georgiev Kanev- here Petar Ivanov Petrov- here Petar Kostadinov Petrov- here Petar Pandushev Chobanov- absent Peter Hristov Bekov- here Peter Hristov Petrov- here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova- here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- here Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova- here Radan Milenov Kanev- here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova- here Ramadan Bajram Atali here Rosen Petrov Petrov- here Rumen Vassilev Gechev- absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov- here Rumen Dinev Zhelev here Rumen Ivanov- here Rumen Marinov Yonchev- absent Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev- here Ruchen Mehmet Riza-here. Saliha Hakif Emin- here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova- here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova- here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev- absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov- here Svilen Filipov Ivanov- here Semir Hussain Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova- here Slavcho Penchev Binev- here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov- here Snezana Georgieva Dukova- here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov- here Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov- here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov- absent Stanislav Todorov Stanilov- absent Stefan Georgiev Kenov- here Stefan Ivanov Dedev- here Stefan Lambov Danailov- absent Stephanie Mihneva Mihaylova- here Stoyan Dimitrov Tonev- absent Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- here Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova- here Tasko Mihailov Ermenkov- here Teodora Radkova Georgieva- here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev- here Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova- here Philip Stefanov Popov here Hamid Barry Hamid-- absent. Hassan Ahmed Ademov- here Hristian Radev Mitev- here We have a quorum, along with those who have signed up further, colleagues, and we can continue the sitting. Are there any more statements under art. 18 by importer, which becomes art. 19 on the Commission? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Rumen Gechev and groups of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Before that, however, there was a proposal from the MP Maya Manolova for a split vote on item. 5. Please vote first on the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Maya Manolova for a separate vote on the text of the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which is not adopted by the Commission. They voted 131 MPs: 33, against 76, abstention 22. The proposal for a separate vote on the proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs is not accepted. We are now voting on the proposal itself as it was made by the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 130 MPs: 26, against 86, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to vote on the version of the Commission together with the editorial proposal made by its President Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, which was: in art. 19th para. 3 the figure They voted 133 MPs: 106, against 13, abstention 14. The Commission's editing of art. 18, which becomes Art. Nineteen has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u148	Under art. 19 At importer there is a proposal from the National Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 19 the following changes are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "the Palate" the expression "the collective body" shall be added. 2. Alinea 2 acquires the following content: The Court of Auditors shall adopt its decisions at meetings at which at least 5 of its members are present. The decisions shall be adopted by a majority of more than half of all members. 3. In para. 3 and the expression "Deputy Vice-President" shall be replaced by the word "Member." 4. In para. 4 t. 5 comma after the word....................................................................................................... 54, para. 8, p. For the purposes of point (b) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002, Council 5. In para. 5 sentence first dropped out, sentence two becomes content of para. 5. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 19 which becomes Art. 20: The powers of the Court of Auditors Art. 20. (1) The Court of Auditors shall organise, manage and control audit activities under this law. (2) The Court of Auditors shall adopt its decisions by a clear vote and a four-vote majority. Abstention shall not be allowed. (3) The manner of voting of each voter and the reasons of each voter against shall be reflected in the minutes and shall be published on the website of the Court of Auditors together with the audit report. (4) The meetings shall be chaired by the President of the Court of Auditors or by a Vice-President appointed by him. (5) The Court of Auditors shall: 1. validate the draft annual budget and the report on its implementation; 2. adopt Rules on the structure and organisation of the activities of the Court of Auditors, Code of Ethics of the Court of Auditors, Manual on the implementation of internationally recognised audit standards and audit activities of the Court of Auditors, Regulations on selection, appointment, training, evaluation of the performance and professional development of the staff of the Court of Auditors, strategies, policies, guidelines and other internal acts; 3. adopt an annual audit programme and a report on its implementation; 4. adopt audit reports, except in the cases referred to in Article 4. 54, para. 8, p. 1 and 2; 5. establish a list of recognised auditors certificates; 6. implements other powers provided for by law. (6) The Court of Auditors shall lead the overall audit work. The Court of Auditors shall exercise its audit powers through the auditors.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u149	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 104 MPs: 20, against 74, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting for the editorial of art. 20 and its name on the Commission report. Vote 112 MPs: 91 against 16, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u150	Under art. 20 of the importer has a proposal from the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 20 the following changes are made: 1. Point 2 acquires the following content: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 2. propose to the Court of Auditors the allocation of audit departments between the members of the Court of Auditors; 2. Point 6 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 20, which becomes art. 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u151	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. Vote 119 MPs: 24, against 80, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. Now we vote art. 20 by importer, which becomes art. 21 on the Commission report. Vote 117 MPs: 99, Against 7, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Bloc Mr. Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u152	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The reformation bloc expects the Supreme Judicial Council to hold a transparent and fair choice as President of the Supreme Court of Cassation. Tomorrow, on 29 January, there is an extremely important choice not only for the judiciary, but also for the whole of Bulgaria and all its citizens, expecting reforms for a fair and independent court of law, a choice which is also monitored with caution by our partners from the European Commission. Indeed, the motion for President of the Supreme Court of Cassation is the power of the judiciary and the Supreme Judicial Council and any external interference is unacceptable. But it is also true that every Bulgarian citizen has the right to require this choice to be made in compliance with art. 131 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and the explicitly written secret of the vote. And it is precisely the Supreme Judicial Council's duty to make such a choice to prevent even the slightest shadow of suspicion of manipulation. Colleagues, we all know that there are strong speculations in society at the moment about political lobbying and political pressure on the Supreme Judicial Council in the election of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation. In this sense, this declaration is not a form of interference, but attention to the members of the Supreme Judicial Council, half of which are elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria, to ensure that their members are not subjected to such interference and to such external political pressure. The reform bloc is deeply concerned by the intention of the Supreme Judicial Council, despite the numerous criticisms of the electronic voting system and the lack of guarantees of the secret of the vote, I would say, despite the direct evidence already available about the possibility of this system being manipulated, taking away any guarantees of the secret of the vote, the choice to take place precisely with this compromised electronic system, a system for which experts have publicly demonstrated that it reveals the way of voting and even allows multiple voting for different candidates. Once again, I say this risk against the backdrop of suspicion of severe political pressure on the independent judiciary. Now the same people who have convinced us how secure and impenetrable this system is, and these claims have been categorically refuted by all the expertise made on this matter, they will convince us that the secret of the vote will be guaranteed. We know that when using the compromised system the secret of the vote is not guaranteed. Meanwhile, the whole of Bulgaria, as well as many foreign ambassadors, understood and publicly said that the distribution of cases in some courts was anything but random. We have all understood and found that the whole Bulgarian society already knows that neither the distribution is accidental nor the secret of the vote is guaranteed. Therefore, we of the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group expect the Supreme Judicial Council to take into account our concerns and repeated remarks to it by the European Commission on the cooperation and verification mechanism, and to hold a choice for the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation in the classic way proven in time with urns and paper ballots and without any doubt in the honesty and secret of the vote. We call on the Minister of Justice to exercise his powers and propose a procedure for the election of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, excluding the use of the compromised electronic voting system. Otherwise, the new president of the Supreme Court of Cassation, if elected, will take up a position with a critically low level of public confidence, which will be the most detrimental to the regular honest magistrates and any honest citizen who expects justice from the Bulgarian judiciary. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u153	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Mrs. Stoyanova, we're moving on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u154	Article 21 by importer. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 21 the following changes are made: 1. In the title of the provision, the words "Deputy Vice-Presidents' shall be replaced by the words "the Members'. 2. In para. 1 the following changes are made: (a) the introductory text acquires the following content: The members of the Court of Auditors shall: (b) c. 3 after the expression of the objects in question shall be placed a comma and the text to end the sentence shall be removed. 3. In para. 2 and the expression "Deputy Vice-President" shall be replaced by the word "Member," respectively, by dropping the membership of the adjective "other." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 21, which becomes Art. 22: The powers of the Vice-Presidents of the Court of Auditors Art. 22. (1) The Vice-Presidents shall: 1. manage audit directorates; 2. plan and allocate the resources necessary to carry out audit tasks within the scope of the relevant audit directorates; 3. submit for examination and adoption of a meeting of the Court of Auditors draft audit reports together with their observations, conclusions drawn and recommendations, where specified in the law; 4. exercise other powers conferred on them by law in order and manner established by an internal act or by order of the President of the Court of Auditors; 5. shall be responsible for the organisation of audit work and its quality. (2) In the absence of a Vice-President, his powers as Head of Audit Directorates shall be exercised by the other Vice-President appointed by order of the President of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u155	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. Vote 97 MPs: 18, against 68, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the name and version of art. 22 on the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 80, against 10, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u156	Under art. 22 under the importer.supposed by the National Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 22 the following changes shall be made: 1. By para. 1: a) the sentence first becomes the text of para. 1; b) sentence two becomes the text of a new para. 2. 2. Alinei 2.. 4 drop The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs: Art. 22, para. 3, p. 4 is amended as follows: to have experience in the field of public funds audit not less than 4 years. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 22, which becomes Art. 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u157	Statements? Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u158	Madam President, colleagues! With this text, if we accept it as proposed, we will go against the just adopted article. 21, where it is envisaged that the Vice-Presidents lead the Audit Directorates, and in this text we are talking about an Audit Director. One of the reasons against the current rules is that the wrong operational management is transferred to the Chief Auditor, coordinator. It is not acceptable for the same structures to be led by two positions. Audit directors in this case are an unnecessary figure as they duplicate the functions which, as I said, in art. 21, we've assigned the vice-presidents. It is untenable to transfer operational management to audit directors after it is claimed that the management bodies, in this case the Vice-Presidents of the Court of Auditors that we elect, are professionals who will be responsible for this audit work. In setting such high professional requirements for these positions, it is most logical for these bodies to lead and be responsible for audit bodies to the management of the Court of Auditors, so that the Director's figure, as head of an audit director, is considered unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u159	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mrs. Manolova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u160	Honourable Members, Madam President! The questions regarding how the functions of the Vice-Presidents of the Court of Auditors and the Directors of the Directorates-General are mixed are explained. In fact, regarding these directorates, there is an old dispute which I think should be clarified in detail during the debates. For example, Mrs. Stoyanova argued that the law fixed the number of audit directorates and entered into serious disputes regarding this with the current President of the Court of Auditors. As far as we have read all the texts precisely, the number of audit directorates is nowhere fixed. The very fact that the functions of their directors are being seized is already creating and asking a lot of questions as to whether there will be some figures who will simply be appointed as directors, but at the same time will not actually have any functions? One. Secondly, many questions arise for the Vice-Presidents as heads of these Directorates, with the powers they have with regard to the submission and protection of certain audit reports and with regard to the adoption of these reports by a qualified majority for their role, function and influence in the Court of Auditors. In my opinion, the texts are not precise from a legal point of view. For example, t. 4 enables the Vice-Presidents to exercise other powers conferred on them by law. In the law, I personally, despite the detailed reading of all the members, found no other powers that could possibly implement the vice-presidents. Moreover, I think that by order of the President of the Court of Auditors they should be given additional powers. This is where I think the philosophy of construction is wrong...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u161	You're talking about the other member of the Vice-Presidents, and we're at the Directorates.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u162	In my opinion, the two texts should be viewed in their mutual relationship because the management function of the audit directorates is being distributed, it is not clear exactly how it is compared between the Vice-Presidents and the heads of audit directorates. I wanted to ask these questions about this text so that I could save them on the next one, but let's assume that Mrs. Stoyanova's remark is justified and move this debate on the next text. I will join my colleague, Turnovalyski, and I will say that there really must be clarity on who will lead the audit directorates. And this power to fall out of the powers of the Vice-Presidents.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u163	I take it that this statement of yours, Mrs. Manolova, is on the next text. You have another minute and forty seconds if you wish to use your time to the fullest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u164	I'll use the next text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u165	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Rumen Gechev and a group of Members of the National Assembly "The Commission does not support it. They voted 102 MPs: 18, against 68, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs - the Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 95 MPs: 25, against 12, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote art. 22 by importer, which becomes art. 23 on the report supported by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 83, against 10, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u166	The powers and obligations of the management bodies and the staff of the Court of Auditors. The Commission shall support the name of the head.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u167	We vote. Vote 95 MPs: 86 against 3, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u168	Under art. 23 Under the importer.supposed by the National Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 23 the following changes shall be made: 1. In para. 1 and the words "the Vice-Presidents' shall be replaced by the words "the Members'. 2. In para. 2 and the expression "Secretaries of the "Secretary' shall be replaced by the expression "Secretaries of senior positions'; the comma after it shall be replaced by the Union of the "Secretary'; and after the "Secretary' shall be added and the expression "Secretary' shall be added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 23, which becomes art. 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u169	Statements? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u170	Madam President, honourable Members! Article 23 explains the status of various staff in the Court of Auditors. According to Al. 1 Management bodies shall be the President and the Vice-Presidents. According to Al. 2 staff of the Court of Auditors are the directors of directorates, heads of structural units, auditors and administration staff. My question to you is: what is the status of the members of the Court of Auditors? They are neither the management bodies of the Court of Auditors nor employees. And my second question is: according to the existing structure of the administration, everywhere the directors of directorates, of departments are executive employees. Only in the Court of Auditors, the directors of the audit directorates are not heads. This is also contrary to the previous article, which was voted on a short time ago and according to which, I quote: "Directions are led by directors, i.e. the directors are both the heads of the Directorates and are not the management bodies of the Court of Auditors, but are employees, and the two Members who are on a fee in the Court of Auditors do not appear anywhere in this text, neither in the following and as powers, nor as commitments, and as the responsibility they should bear. I expect one of the importers to explain to me what the status of the members of the Court of Auditors is first. Secondly, why are the directors of directorates both managing directorates and not among the management bodies of the Court of Auditors?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u171	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 101 MPs: 17 against 66, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 23 by importer, which becomes art. 24, on the Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: 83 against 8, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u172	Under art. 24 under the importer. supposed by the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 24, para. 3 the expression "Faces" by para. 1 "At the beginning of the provision is replaced by the expression "Faces under para. 1 and para. The following points are inserted after point 2 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 24, which becomes Art. 25: Laws and obligations on employment Art. 25. (1) The employment relations of the employees of the Court of Auditors shall be governed by the provisions of the Labour Code. (2) The management bodies of the Court of Auditors shall have all the rights of employment, except those which are incompatible or contrary to their legal status or to the Code of Ethics of the Court of Auditors. (3) The persons under para. 1 shall comply with the requirements of the Code of Ethics of the Court of Auditors and the Manual of Implementation of the internationally recognised audit standards and audit work of the Court of Auditors. In the event of failure to comply with these requirements, the staff of the Court of Auditors shall be liable disciplinaryly under the terms and conditions of the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u173	Statements? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u174	Honourable Members, a few hours ago we had a dispute with Mrs. Menda Stoyanova regarding whether the members of the Court of Auditors, the President and the Vice-Presidents, are obliged to comply with the Code of Ethics of the Court of Auditors. Well, you don't have to say it in this text. Dear Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, this is why I said that you are not telling the truth because in art. 24, which you support and which you will shortly vote on, it is said that the President, Vice-Presidents and Members of the Court of Auditors are not obliged to comply with the requirements of the Code of Ethics, that is to say, are not obliged to be guided by the principles of political neutrality, objectivity, independence, incorruptibility. [[Noise and lines.]] Those rules don't apply to them. What does this text say? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I understand that it is very convenient to distract and pretend that you do not hear me. And like you haven't answered my previous questions because you don't have an answer. [[GERB's lines and calls]] So surely there is no way to answer, Mrs. Yordanova, and this is my question: why is there no requirement for the President, Vice-Presidents and Members of the Court of Auditors to comply with the Code of Ethics? [[GERB lines.]] Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Why? And my second question is: why do the President, Vice-Presidents and Members of the Court of Auditors have no commitment to comply with the acts they issue themselves, including no commitment to comply with the Manual of Implementation of the internationally recognised audit standards and audit activities of the Court of Auditors? Notice, the President, Vice-Presidents and Members of the Court of Auditors have only rights! They do not have any obligations or will comply with the Code of Ethics, nor are they obliged to comply with the standards. And for the employees, in addition to being obliged to respect them, if they do not comply with them, it is written here: they bear disciplinary responsibility and therefore the members of the Court of Auditors will respect international accounting standards, whether they will comply with the requirements, whether they will comply with the ethical rules, they shall have no responsibility at all in the Court of Auditors, nor can they be held responsible to the National Assembly, nor have any commitments at all. [[GERB lines.]] Yeah, in al. 2 writes: "The management bodies of the Court of Auditors have all the rights and obligations. [[Noise and lines.]] Well, they don't. It's not about responsibilities. I mean, the ones you choose have only rights. [[GERB lines.]] Well, that's what it says! Here, and for Mr. Tsvetanov I will read: The management bodies of the Court of Auditors have all the rights of employment, except those which are incompatible or contrary to their legal application. Duty? Is there any obligation? I won't. Responsibility? [[GERB lines.]] Well, answer me: what is worrying about the members of the Court of Auditors meeting the requirements of the Code of Ethics? [[Strong noise in the hall, lines and calls from GERB.]] No, it's not a piece of paper. It's a manual, I'll give it to you in a moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u175	Please don't enter into dialogue from place to place. I'll give you an opportunity for lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u176	Answer: why will the management of the Court of Auditors and members not meet the requirements of the Code of Ethics? [[Loud noise and lines.]] Yes, but this piece of paper is very important: the principle of objectivity, incorruptibility, Mr. Ivanov! Incorruptibility! Independence! [[Loud noise, GERB lines.]] I understand that with people for whom, as Mr. Enchev said, the party ticket is more important than the voice of conscience, it is unnecessary to debate! [[Calls: "Eeeee!" by GERB.]] However, there are some reasonable, simple rules in the drafting of laws, in the voting of laws. I don't know why the simple set, which is required by law to look decent, does not respect it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u177	Why didn't you make a proposal at first reading?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u178	Well, we did.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u179	I won't! It's quite different: the faces under para. 1 "In the beginning of the provision, replace it with the expression "Faces under para. 1 and para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u180	Yeah, because the faces on para. One is the employees, and one is the employees. 2 shall be the President, Vice-Presidents and Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u181	You're in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u182	So, if this is voted on, they will also be subject to the commitment to meet all the requirements of the Code of Ethics, to comply with international audit standards and so on, and to bear disciplinary responsibility when they violate them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u183	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u184	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mrs Manolova! I take the liberty of taking the floor...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u185	That's not a line, Mr. Kirilov. That's a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u186	I asked for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u187	Why are you addressing Mrs. Manolova personally?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u188	Because he's a previous speaker I can get ideas from.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u189	Ah, I didn't know there was such a practice......................................... to the previous speaker, too........................................................ Okay. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u190	I will draw ideas and concepts, Madam President, and from the previous speech, without being critical or negative, as is appropriate for a reply, but I would like to give some answers that were put in the previous statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u191	They weren't for you, Mr. Danailov. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Kirilov, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u192	I'm sure you don't want to take my word for it. [[Laughter]] Thank you, Madam President. That's what I'm talking about. Once it is said: they have all the rights under the employment contract, in me, without asking Mrs. Manolova, the following question arises: is the service not a set of rights and obligations, especially the employment service? Yes, the expression "they have rights" has been used, but it is clear that they also have the obligations to be followed by the labour force. The other question that arises in me, without prejudice, is in terms of implementation, I would say, of the legendary Ethical Code. In the proposed version by the Commission, I see that this application is relevant and mandatory for the management bodies of the Court of Auditors. I asked myself: why should the management bodies of the Court of Auditors not apply the Manual of Implementation of internationally recognised audit standards and audit work? I think the answer is pretty simple. Yes, auditors should apply this International Standards Manual, but it is clear that managers, as managers, do not apply but control. They made this manual. They've set all the standards. They can say at any given moment: "See, gentlemen principals, gentlemen auditors, you are obliged to apply these standards. You haven't applied them, so we're returning your report. I don't want to go back to the previous exhibition, where there was a rough mix of generic and species concepts and there was some huge legal and technical logic. But I wish in this debate the speakers would not rape the legal science and legal theory just to form a thesis or counterthesis. Thank you, Madam President. I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u193	- What's the line? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u194	Honourable Members, this is the notorious Code of Ethics, which currently operates in the Court of Auditors. [[Shows the Code.]] Nothing prevents your newly elected staff from writing a better code, but I think the basics are made clear here. Here are the principles: professionalism, responsibility, objectivity, independence, impartiality.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u195	You're in replica procedure. What do you disagree with, and what do you oppose to Mr. Kirilov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u196	I do not agree that those who write the rules should not follow them. The Vice-Presidents of the Court of Auditors have a commitment and will see it further in the texts, including to submit audit reports, to draw up opinions on them and, of course, to guide the whole process. Well, can you rule on an audit report without having to comply with internationally imposed audit standards? It's like saying that we're here because, figuratively speaking, we're making the laws, we can't keep them. We write them for the citizens, they do them, we'll just write them here. This is an absurd thesis, excuse me, Mr. Kirilov. And with regard to ethical rules. In my opinion, they should apply to anyone who has anything to do with the Court of Auditors, including external auditors. These are basic principles of behavior. Public money is being audited, billions of levs, you can't afford to keep them politically neutral and incorruptible. You couldn't stand it at all, and at least don't defend her. Let those who have written the Law be blushed afterwards, subject to analysis both by NGOs and by human rights defenders and by citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u197	Are you threatening me?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u198	No, I'm just saying. Stay out of this business, let them take their chestnuts out of the fire, because these are unprotected texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u199	Second line? Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u200	Mr. Kirilov, I will try to clarify what you have tried in your speech, but obviously it has not become clear because the line is obvious. First, we have art. 1, para. 2 which says that the Court of Auditors works under this Law and internationally recognised audit standards. The Management of the Court of Auditors, in the face of its President, Vice-Presidents and Members, shall be subject to this text. In other words, they are obliged to apply international audit standards. Article 25 of the Court of Auditors itself, in the face of its management, establishes a Guide to the implementation of these standards in order to support the work of the auditors on them and it is normal that it does not comply with the Manual because it is subject to international standards and the Manual which it has designed to implement them. As for the code of ethics, I think you said you were still in para. 2 it is clear that the management bodies apply the Code of Ethics and have all the rights and obligations, unless they are incompatible with the Code of Ethics, which means that they apply it and apply it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u201	Third line? Mr. Kirilov, would you like to use the back? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 101 MPs: 20, against 67, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. The proposal of Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs is generally supported. Now we vote art. 25 in the version of the Commission's report. They voted 102 MPs: 82, against 4, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u202	Article 25 under the importer. supposed by the National Representative Rumen Gechev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 25, para. 4 the words by the Vice-President concerned shall be replaced by an order of a member of the Court of Auditors, who shall be the head of the relevant Audit Directorate. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 25, which becomes art. 26: "Oditors" Art. 26. (1) A person shall be appointed as auditor of the Court of Auditors who is: 1. with higher education, with an educational and qualification degree of Master and with a service or service experience of not less than 3 years; 2. successfully passed the audit exam of the Court of Auditors or holds an auditor certificate; 3. winning a competition for appointment under the Rules of Procedure, appointment, training, evaluation of the performance and professional development of the staff of the Court of Auditors. (2) The audit posts shall be: auditor, Senior Auditor I, Senior Auditor II, Senior Auditor II, Senior Auditor. The promotion in office shall be carried out in accordance with the Staff Regulations of the Court of Auditors' selection, appointment, training, evaluation of the performance and professional development. (3) A person with higher education shall be appointed as an intern, with an educational and qualification degree, who has won a competition under the Staff Regulations, appointment, training, evaluation of the performance and professional development of the staff of the Court of Auditors. The audit officer shall assist the audit work. (4) Auditors shall carry out audits in audit teams. The heads of audit teams shall be appointed by the Vice-President concerned and shall be responsible for the professional management and quality performance of audits.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u203	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. Vote 95 MPs: 18, against 63, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. Now we vote art. 26 by the name of "Oditors" in its version of the Commission report. Vote 85 MPs: 75 against 8, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u204	Under art. 26 The Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become art. 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u205	Vote art. 27 on the report. Vote 89 MPs: 79 against 7, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u206	Under art. 27 has a proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27 para. 1 and the expression by international projects and programmes and the comma after it are dropped, and the word "action" is added to the word "action" in its second use. The word "other" is added. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Emil Dimitrov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 27, which becomes art. 28: supposed to carry out another paid job or activity Art. 28. (1) Directors of directorates, heads of structural units and auditors shall not take any other paid position or carry out any other paid activity other than on international projects and programmes relating to the activities of the Court of Auditors, scientific, teaching or activity regulated by the Copyright and Related Rights Act. (2) The circumstances of para. 1 shall be certified to the employer with a declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u207	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. Vote 95 MPs: 17 against 66 abstentions 12. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 28 and its name in its version of the Commission report. Vote 87 MPs: 77 against 6, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u208	The Commission supports the texts of the importer as Articles 28 to 32, which become Articles 29 to 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u209	I shall put to the vote members from 28 to 32 by importer, respectively the number 29 to 33 by the Commission report. We vote. Vote 97 MPs: 85 against 5, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u210	Under art. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 33, which becomes Art. 34: "Contribution to the protection of information' Art. 34. (1) Managing authorities and employees shall be obliged to protect classified information representing state or professional secrecy, as well as commercial, banking or other law-protected secrecy, and not to disclose facts and circumstances which have become known to them in or on the occasion of their duties. (2) The persons referred to in art. 26 When entering into work, they shall sign a declaration of secrecy and of non-disclosure of facts and circumstances under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u211	Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u212	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, is it not your concern that the members of the Court of Auditors have no commitment according to this text to protect classified information?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u213	It bothers me a lot. Make an offer and we'll accept it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u214	I don't understand why we're going along with the stubborn vote scheme. In the preceding text, which you have read and I have no further desire to enter into disputes with you, it is also about the management bodies of the Court of Auditors. As members are not managing bodies, they have no indirect commitment to have obligations under the Labour Code relating to the Code of Ethics and so on. I'm talking about art. 25, para. 2. Here again, as the members of the Court of Auditors are not part of the management nor are they obliged to sign appropriate declarations of secrecy and non-disclosure of facts or to keep classified information. You know that audit reports until they have been adopted by the Court of Auditors are covered by professional secrecy. The facts and data on them should not be disclosed because they would damage the audited persons. So the most normal thing is to include them in this hypothesis. I do not want to make such a proposal, because the fate of the proposals I make is a vote against. Make yourself an offer so you can vote on it, if that's what's really bothering you. And if the Court of Auditors, in addition to being privatized, will also be a decomposed courtyard, it is ultimately your responsibility. [[Replications from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov and Diana Yordanova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u215	Please don't replicate from place! - What's the line? I won't. Mrs. Stoyanova has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u216	Mrs. Manolova, the fact that this law is not accepted as stubborn is that you see how many discussions and how many accepted proposals under art. 80 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. A serious discussion on each text was held in the Committee on Budget and Finance. This is what the report proves. Maybe it wasn't bad if you were so active and recognized this law as your desktop book, that you were involved in the Commission and then you would probably be more useful to us. As for your particular concern, I accept, Mrs. Manolova, this concern. Unlike art. 25, para. 2 Here it is really missed that members also have to keep the business secret, as they really have to accept audit reports with their action. However, before accepting more or less, there is a period in which they are acquainted with the audit reports, findings and evidence of them. For this particular period, they must also meet the requirements for the protection of professional secrecy. Madam President, I am making a procedural proposal: after the administration, the members and employees continue the text further.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u217	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] In the second, what happens? The persons referred to in art. 26, who are they?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u218	These are the auditors.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u219	In para. Two, no need? [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u220	They're required by the law to protect the state's secret. What's the problem? The law obliges them, and we record here that they are obliged to keep this secret, and if they do not formally sign the declaration, these declarations are for the auditors because they are in employment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u221	They're in al. 1
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u222	Yeah, they're all in al. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u223	Who are the faces of art. 26, which are in para. 2 of art. 34?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u224	Auditor, senior auditor and other auditors who, in the course of their audit activities, have access to much more information than that specified in the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u225	Got it. Do other MPs wish to take part in this debate? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the editorial proposal to supplement Mrs. Stoyanova: in art. 34 on the Commission report in para. 1 after the management bodies shall make a comma, the word the members of the staff shall continue the text and the employees shall be obliged to protect the classified information and so on. We vote on the supplement proposed by Mrs. Stoyanova. 100 MPs voted: 98 against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to amend art. Its name, in line with what we have just accepted. Vote art. 34. Vote 97 MPs: 91, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u226	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 34, which becomes art. 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 35, which becomes art. 36.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u227	Statements? I won't. Vote art. Article 34 35 which becomes art. Art. 35 and art. 36. Vote 98 MPs: 90, none, abstention 8. Articles 34 and 35 by importer which, in the version of the Commission, become Articles 35 and 36, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u228	Article 36? a proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 36 the word "suppliers" and the comma after it are dropped, after the word "supplied" the expression "in the audit work" is added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 36, which becomes art. 37.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u229	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 96 MPs: 16, against 68, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 36, which in the version of the Commission becomes art. 37, along with the title "Securities." Vote 91 MPs: 78 against 6, abstention 7. The text of the importer for art. 36, which becomes art. 37 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u230	Chapter Five "Odite activity." Proposals of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: In the name of Chapter 5, the words The Commission does not support the proposals. The Commission supports the name of Chapter Five.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u231	Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u232	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, I would like to ask and I hope to receive an answer: will the members of the Court of Auditors have any powers and obligations in the audit work? In addition to choosing two lobbyists, they will obviously be two figurative members and absolutely irresponsible because they have neither obligations nor powers nor commitments nor any responsibility. Perhaps that is why, in the previous article that you adopted and which relates to compulsory insurance, the members of the Court of Auditors are not subject to compulsory insurance. Perhaps it is logical for you people who do not have obligations, have no responsibilities, and have only rights not to be insured professionally, but I think from the best man's shame add them to the title. To see, however, that in this Law, in addition to opportunities for wealth for these two members, there will be some commitments. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u233	You didn't make such an offer. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Any other lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u234	Still, I'd like to clarify. What the Commission has proposed makes sense. This is Chapter "Odite activity" and it says how the audits are awarded, what are the powers of the auditors in the course of the audit, what are the duties of the managers of the audit organisations, what are the responsibilities for damage and so on, external experts who can be employed and so on. This is the audit procedure itself. The members of the Court of Auditors shall not be concerned with it, they shall not lead or participate in audits. They shall participate in the discussion and adoption of the outcome of these audits, namely the audit report. I can't explain it any clearer than that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u235	- What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u236	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, the audit process ends with the adoption of an audit report. All phases of the process, all conclusions, findings, evidence should be discussed during the adoption of this report. As far as I follow the logic of the entire law, in the discussion of the Audit Report, both members of the Court of Auditors participate in its adoption. Moreover, without their two votes, no audit report can be adopted because the vote has a qualified majority of 4 out of 5 votes. Since there are two of them, surely at least one of them must vote in order for the report to be adopted. Then let's just say they're not involved. Really, something I don't understand?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u237	That's your problem, not ours.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u238	And you think they'll just sit and vote. They don't have other commitments. That's how you write it. Actually, that's coming out, too. If for you the act of discussion and acceptance of audit reports is absolutely formal and they will sit there and raise their hand and take some money, the more pathetic.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u239	What should we write?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u240	Well, the discussion and adoption of the Audit Report is part of the actual composition of the entire audit process. Isn't that right, Mr. Lazarov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u241	There it is, Mrs. Manolova, read it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u242	Well, then why are they excluded from the commitments, powers, requirements and responsibilities of this chapter? [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] Oh, they don't have powers, they just vote?! In your opinion, the vote is not a power?! I mean, they're just voting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u243	Second line? Mr. Ivanov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u244	My fellow Members, by the way, I propose that we put an end to this, not that I am in principle proposing an end to the debate, Mr President, but my fellow Members, in their haste to make their proposals, have not complied with some very basic grammatical rules that they are learning in primary education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u245	You asked for a line to Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u246	Write to get the directors and comma after it, and the comma before it where does it go? There must be an alliance. That's not how you do it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u247	Mr. Ivanov, you have a line to Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u248	Therefore, Mrs. Stoyanova, when you argued your speech, you should have paid attention to this because they are currently, with the proposed text of them, saying nothing but, on the contrary, bringing a confusion. Because if they had studied the Bulgarian language at the time, they would have written it properly in order to have clarity. You have to put an alliance on, but they didn't do it in the haste to make any knee changes on which they speak to slow down time. Therefore, indeed, colleagues, the proposal so made brings nothing with it. It just doesn't have to be accepted, and you should have said that, Mrs. Stoyanova, and paid attention to them when you looked at the proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u249	Third line? It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u250	I will do the duplicate to explain one more time that eventually Chapter Five shows the powers carried out by the auditors and their managers throughout the audit process. But because the question of members is raised, in art. 47, when it comes to the final audit report, it is clearly written that the Court of Auditors examines the draft report together with the conclusion and opinions under art. 46, para. Five and so on. The Court of Auditors, honourable Members, consists, you know, of a President, two Vice-Presidents and members. I don't understand, Mrs. Manolova just wants to annoy us and waste time or I don't understand what the effect is.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u251	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Do you want a way to conduct or a personal explanation?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u252	What a personal explanation, I'm doing her douche. How can I not call her Mrs. Manolova?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u253	You're welcome to join us in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u254	Dear Mr. Glauchev, please don't let the replica procedure be abused. In practice Mr. Stanislav Ivanov, supposedly replicating Mrs. Stoyanova, made a remark to the colleagues - importers of our proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u255	After I made a remark to him, he even turned twice to Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u256	Yes, but in practice, it deprives us of the opportunity to answer it, and the truth is that it does not know grammatical rules, since it cannot piece together the basic text and the proposal that we have made.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u257	Put it together and tell me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u258	The comma after the expression is off, because the comma remains... [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] It remained, sir, and became: the powers and duties of the managing authorities, the heads of structural units and the auditors. Learn grammar in fourth grade and then speak from the parliamentary tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u259	This is out of the way of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u260	Is that how you run it? [[Noise and lines in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u261	Yes, it was much easier to clarify your grammatical knowledge outside. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs for a change in the name of Chapter 5 which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: 18, against 67, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of the importer for the name of Chapter Five, supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 82 against 3, abstention 10. The proposal of the importer of the name of Chapter 5 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u262	Under art. 37 by importer there is a proposal from the National Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of Members of the National Assembly. 37 the following changes shall be made: 1. In para. 1 and the expression "Deputy Vice-President of the Court of Auditors' shall be replaced by the expression "Member of the Court of Auditors, who shall lead the relevant audit directorate'. 2. In para. 3 and the expression "Deputy Vice-President', respectively, shall be replaced by the expression "A Member of the Court of Auditors' or "A Member of the Court of Auditors'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 37, which becomes Art. 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-28.u263	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 92 MPs: 12, against 66, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 37, which becomes Art. 38 on the Commission report. They voted 99 MPs: 86, against 4, abstention 9. The text of the importer for art. 37, which becomes Art. 38 in the version of the Commission has been adopted. The time is thirteen, fifty-nine minutes and forty-nine seconds. We are running out of time scheduled for today. I'm adjourned. Tomorrow's meeting at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
