ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. One message: On 12 February 2015 the National Statistical Institute received information about the average monthly salary and the total number of employees by employment and service for the fourth quarter of 2014. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. As we adopted yesterday's decision, today's entirely plenary day is dedicated to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period 6 "February 12, 2015' A question has been received from the MP Petar Slavov to Tomislav Donchev.. Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy, about opportunities for additional funding of the Bulgarian Army, including for re-arming of NATO standards without additional burden on the state budget. The plenary sitting should be answered on 20 February 2015. There has been a question from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov to Ivelina Vasileva, Minister of Environment and Water, concerning policies on the benefits of the responsibility of producers in separate collection of waste in order to minimize the costs paid by citizens and businesses. The plenary sitting should be answered on 20 February 2015. There has been a question from the National Representative Borislav Velikov to Todor Tanev about the concept and specific legislative proposals of the Ministry of Education and Science related to improving the quality of higher education, a change in the model of funding of higher schools and measures for modernization of the system of higher education. The plenary sitting should be answered on 20 February 2015. Written answers for service by: - Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on a question from the National Representative Ayhan Etem; - Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov to a question from the National Representative Boris Yachev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the National Representative Kalina Balabanov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov on a question from the National Representative Dobromir Prodanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Valentin Nikolov Ivanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Valentin Nikolov Ivanov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Kalina Balabanova; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Hasan Ademov; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Maya Manolova; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the MPs Dimitar Dubov and Manol Genov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Angel Naydenov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Angel Naydenov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the MPs Dimitar Boychev and Ivan Valkov. Today's parliamentary control will start with a question for Mr Ivaylo Kalfin "Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy." The question is asked by the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov about the number of persons, the accumulated amounts on their accounts and the universal pension funds in which they were insured for a second pension, which were transferred to the National Insurance Institute in the period 1 January 2015 - 31 January 2015. Mr. Dimitrov will develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u2	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin, ladies and gentlemen! At the end of last year, without serious public consultation, without even taking the views of all stakeholders, changes were made to the Social Security Code, which decided that citizens who have contributions to private funds would be able to transfer their account to the NSI. Mr. Kalfin, in this regard, it is important for us to establish the following. It was all January 2015. If there were many people who were enthusiastic enough to transfer their accounts from the private fund to the NSI, they should have done so. The question is to give us details of which funds who went to the NSI as number of persons, fund, persons, amounts that went to the NSI within January. You remember that the National Revenue Agency announced that all the legal requirements are in place and if someone wants to transfer to the NSI, do so. This question also has an important subtext. He's like this. Do not turn out that there are some funds that have only been waiting for this measure to be introduced to be transferred to the NSI. We of the Reformation bloc with great interest will follow your response to determine whether such a huge public interest exists and how many people have acted in this way. These data are important in terms of future legislative decisions in this area. If it were found that, for example, there were not so many people interested in transferring to the NSI, it would be seen that the measures at the time were premature, there was no need to resolve them without serious public consultation. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Please, Mr. Kalfin, for specific answers from which fund how many people in January 2015 have transferred to the NSI?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u3	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u4	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov and Mr. Slavov, about two weeks ago the strange thing is that I received such a question, not to say the same, from Mrs. Maya Manolova, who invited me along with her to go and move her account from a batch to the private fund in the state. You're asking me the same question today. There is an interesting nuance in your question that I would like before I answer you, because my answer will be short, which is worth perhaps the parliament to think about. You insist, when this procedure begins, here in Parliament to export information, or wherever, publicly which people, to what amounts, from what funds they carry their funds. I don't know if this applies to banks, for example, and we need to present information about which people, what amounts, which bank they close their deposit from and transfer it to another bank, whether it creates some instability. I'm just asking a question. You're going to settle this thing, it's a parliamentary decision as to how far and how far there should be transparency. There is no problem for me, but I would ask you to think about these issues, because such trials are about to begin. As you know in the law, which was adopted in December, you know and how it was adopted and with what support it is provided that the order and the method of choosing to provide the persons who have chosen to be provided only in the Fund of the State Social Security Pensions, as well as the order and method of transferring funds from an individual account of a universal pension fund to the Fund of the Council of Ministers shall be laid down. So an act of the Council of Ministers determines order. Such an act has not yet been issued. You know that in the meantime, including because of the discussion that is quite relevant with regard to the funds, the Ministry of Finance, which is the originator of this legislation, presented and is currently on his page a new bill that reserves the right to choose, but with a number of details on whether it can be repeated or repeated, how it can happen and so on. This bill was discussed last week during the regular meetings of the pension reform working group and was presented by the Minister of Finance to the social partners and representatives of parliamentary groups. So what we have right now, we have a law that waits for a regulation to determine order, and we have another law that regulates this matter in a slightly different way. I guess it's normal to wait for the final order to transfer funds. Until it is accepted there is no legal basis and therefore there are no people who have transferred their accounts from a universal pension fund into the state social security system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u5	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. The line will be from Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, this is actually the issue we had in mind in December last year, but we waited for the January to pass, so that there would be clarity. This is about who asked the question first, which is not really that important. More importantly, it's something else. The way this provision was adopted at the end of last year has practically enabled the interpretation of the legal text. Indeed, the law mentions a legislative act of the Council of Ministers, but it concerns only one of the categories of persons. Given that different interpretations have also emerged from representatives of the NRA, we have been provoked to ask you whether this period has not been used to tell a certain legislative gap such actions of funds that may be in difficulty, to use the situation and to transfer to the NRA to the back of the conscientious taxpayer in practice and to compensate with this sacred unscrupulous behaviour over the years. That is the point of our question, and I, in the way that you answered, understand that there are no such cases. I hope that no such cases will be allowed in the future, at least until the matter is rearranged, as you mentioned. There is such a legislative intention in the Ministry of Finance, but it has not yet been voted in plenary and is therefore not a fact. That's where we end up. My appeal to you is also: be vigilant, as until now, such a thing is not allowed, not to allow it, and in the future, at the expense of the taxpayer,.. unholy persons who have abused the trust of those who are insured for a second pension and perhaps the funds are not where they should be, to try to blur things and to transfer to the NSI. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u7	A hole? You won't use it. Mr. Kalfin, thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. Mr Nedev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u8	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With relief and hope, we welcome the news of the agreement reached in Minsk on ceasefire in Ukraine and the peaceful settlement of the conflict. We sincerely hope that the arrangements between the parties will be implemented to the maximum extent. Europe does not need crises on its territory and Bulgaria is obliged to support any reasonable peaceful initiative. On the day of this agreement, we of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center feel obliged to invite colleagues from the other parliamentary parties to such rational behaviour based on common sense and national responsibility to the citizens of Bulgaria. In recent weeks we have witnessed rhetoric, which has manipulated the dangerous opinion that the clash in Ukraine is inevitable and that Bulgaria is almost in a situation of aggression. Members of parliament have allowed themselves to call for the choice of a country in the conflict, to frighten Bulgarian citizens with mobilization and war. We call on colleagues from all parliamentary groups to end populism and propaganda, to limit hate speech, to stop unproven accusations against Bulgarian institutions and our partners from NATO and the European Union. It is unacceptable for Bulgarian parliamentarians to put their personal and party benefits above national interests. Let us not forget that above all we are obliged to protect Bulgaria and the interests of Bulgarian citizens. [[Applause from the BDZ.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u9	Thank you, Mr Nedev. On behalf of the parliamentary group Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u10	Declaration on behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group. The Parliamentary Group of GERB strongly objects to attempts to discredit the deputy chairman of the political party GERB Tsvetan Tsvetanov. Targeted suggestions at his address, which the media-political circle of Hohegers launched in the public domain over the last two years, aim to Satanize Tsvetanov and thus weaken GERB in the elections in which he is traditionally President of the National election headquarters of the party. And if public manipulations could not weaken the party, which continued to win convincingly all elections, they categorically created unprecedented pressure on the Bulgarian institutions, which left them in a humiliating position to carry out the orders of the party leaders of the three coalitions BSP, DPS and Ataka under threat of personnel purges in disobedience. The verdict against Tsvetan Tsvetanov was actually read by the President of the BSP at the end of March 2013. Days after the thoroughly organized and executed mutiny, which brought Boyko Borisov's government down from power. An anonymous signal against the former Minister of the Interior was waved at a press conference of The Anonymous was handed over publicly to law enforcement institutions with the command that the Vice-President of GERB is guilty and the institutions are hardly obliged to simply formalise this party decision........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Twenty-five years later, nothing in the heads of comrades on the left has changed. Only their bank accounts and their personal conditions changed, but the exploitation of state institutions as a party addition remained. There were also propaganda primos with which the State Security manipulated public opinion. Against Tsvetan Tsvetanov were used all kinds of tools which aimed to suggest to the impartial viewers that he had been listening almost every Bulgarian citizen. The public has been prepared for months that Tsvetanov is guilty and it is a matter of procedure for him to be convicted of wrongful implementation of the SRS. However, the law enforcement institutions in Bulgaria showed professionalism and did not realize the anonymity of "Positano" 20, because the only evidence in it was the personal data of the Vice-President of the Political Party GERB. However, the propagandic octopus of the former rulers did not stop putting its tentacles into the state and after having achieved success through the affair "Kostinbrodski newsletters", launched a new offensive against Tsvetanov, sounding even more absurd than the previous one. This time he was accused of refusing to authorize the application of special intelligence means! To this day, thinking people and foreign policy partners of Bulgaria sound inexplicably accused that a minister could be accused of refusing to authorize a procedure for which the state gave him the right to decide. However, custody institutions have seen nothing wrong with accusing a former interior minister of something that is legal and applied by all interior ministers over the past 25 years. This is how it is applied and comes to the judgment of a judgment that reminds of the sentences of the Communist tribunal known in history as the People's Court. As a responsible political force Political Party GERB definitely does not want to interfere in the work of the independent Bulgarian court. However, we oppose attempts to use the judiciary as a weapon in the hands of political circles, which are ready to cross all democratic borders to gain access to state and economic power in the country. We demand that the President of the Parliamentary Group of GERB receive a fair trial in accordance with all legal provisions and procedures! We call on all political forces, as well as public opinion-forming bodies in the state, to show objectivity and to stop targeted discrediting a politician who has acquired the form of a personal vendetta rather than an objective assessment of his work. And the assessment was given by both the voters who continued to vote on the trust of GERB and all the foreign political partners of Bulgaria who continue to express their support to the GERB party and to Mr. Tsvetanov in particular. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. The first question to Mr. Daniel Mitov, Minister of Foreign Affairs, will be asked by Mr. Christian Vigenin about coordination on EU issues. We're listening, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u12	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! I will start by saying that in practice a large part of this issue is being depreciated in the meantime, as it was asked on 19 November, and now we are four months later, but I think it is worth talking about the coordination of European policies anyway. The point of my question was to sharpen the attention of Parliament and Minister Mitov on European policy issues and to give him arguments to protect the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But either way, I'm gonna cut to the chase. On November 10th, the government information service announced that a meeting of the Council on European Affairs was held, chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Ms. Meglena Kuneva. Important decisions have been adopted at this meeting, such as the Project Position of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Council of the European Union on Economic and Financial Affairs, where the finance ministers discussed the European Union's budgetary procedure for 2015. By Decree No 85 of the Council of Ministers, however, the meetings of the Council on European Affairs shall be chaired by the Minister of Foreign Affairs or his deputy. I say again, to that moment. Only two days later at a meeting of the Council of Ministers were adopted changes in the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers, mentioning, by the way, that a change is also needed in Decree No 85, which was not implemented at that time. From the available information it becomes clear, Mr Minister, that in practice you have been taken away from all coordinating functions, you will not participate in the Council.. General questions.............................. and from now on the participation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the Council on European Affairs...................................................................................................................................................................................................... My question is: do you believe that the decisions of the Council on European Affairs of 10 November are legal, given that your functions have been seized by another member of the Council of Ministers, which at that time does not exist in the relevant legal acts? Will the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have any role and possibly what in the process of coordinating European policies? With what arguments did you accept the cutting of the functions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u13	Here you are, Mr. Mitov, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u14	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Vigenin, before I answer your question, I would like to thank you from the platform of the National Assembly to all parliamentary groups, who in recent days defended Bulgaria's geopolitical strategic choice and stood firm against the hysteria imposed in the Bulgarian society regarding the conflict in Ukraine. I'll stop now. Mr Vigenin, on 10 November 2014 a regular meeting of the Council on European Affairs was held at the Council of Ministers. In accordance with art. 6c of PMS No 85 of 2007 for coordination on European Union matters, the Council's meetings shall be chaired by its President, and this shall be the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and in the event of his absence the management shall be taken over by a Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs or by the Secretary of the Council appointed by him. Due to the inability to attend the meeting held at that date personally, the same was led by Deputy Minister Rumen Alexandrov. That fact is apparent from the one drawn up pursuant to art. 6b, para. 3 of the PMS No 85 minutes of the meeting signed by Mr. Alexandrov and Council Secretary Mrs. Hristina Hitchova, Director of the European Union Coordination Directorate in the administration of the Council of Ministers. The newly elected Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Mrs. Meglena Kuneva took part in the first part of the meeting, expressing her ambition to step up the role of the CEV [[Council on European Affairs]] in accordance with the government's priority for increased integration of Bulgaria into the European Union. In view of the above, I believe that the Council on European Affairs has held a legitimate meeting. Regarding the second part of the question: have changes in Order No 85 been adopted and when, I would like to inform you that after 7 November 2014. Date of election of the government by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Decree of the Council of Ministers has been amended three times. The changes are published in the Official Journal of the European Union as follows: 94 of 14 November 2014, p. 101 of 9 December 2014 and No. 6 of 23 January 2015 The amendments to Decree No 85 of the Council of Ministers were made to reflect the decision of the National Assembly to adopt the structure of the Council of Ministers of 7 November 2014 and the decision of the National Assembly to elect the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria from 7 November 2014. According to amendments of 14 November 2014 in art. 5, para. 1 of Decree of the Council of Ministers No 85, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs has been appointed President of the Council on European Affairs. The Political Representation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the ECJ is carried out by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who is also Vice-President of the Council, and in his absence by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs appointed by him. The powers of the Foreign Minister with regard to coordination on European Union issues are laid down in art. 2, para. 5 of Decree of the Council of Ministers No 85. The Minister of Foreign Affairs continues to represent the Republic of Bulgaria at all the meetings of the Council of the European Union, the policy of enlargement and the process of stabilisation and association. According to the amendments, the Deputy Prime Minister for the Coordination of European Policies represents Bulgaria in the meetings of the General Affairs Council in all other cases. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs continues to expertly prepare the Bulgarian participation in the meetings of the General Affairs Council and the meetings of the European Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u15	Mr. Vigenin, come in for two more minutes for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Mitov, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I can hardly say that I am satisfied with this answer because I am sorry to say this, but obviously either the government press office is lying or a fraud has been committed by forming a protocol by the Council on European Affairs signed by Mr. Rumen Alexandrov. I do not know if the information has already been changed on the site, but this is what it says on 10 November 2014: The Deputy Prime Minister for the Coordination of European Policies Meglena Kuneva, who is leading today the European Affairs Council, said that he expects to preserve and strengthen his central role and so on and so forth. That is, we are either misleading citizens with the publication of false information on the Council of Ministers' website, or we are falsifying a protocol only to meet the requirements and not to go against the decree of the Council of Ministers in force at that time. But, of course, this remains on the conscience of those who have done it, and I just want to say that, unfortunately, much of the functions, as you have confirmed, Mr. Mitov, of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, were seized in practice by Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva. This, by the way, is a structure that exists only in one other Member State of the European Union, Malta, where the Deputy Prime Minister is responsible for European matters. The first effects of these decisions are already present. Apparently Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva is gasping due to lack of administrative capacity around her. We are witnessing many chaotic actions focused on two topics related to European coordination. The rest is neglected. In practice, Meglena Kuneva also runs the Directorate of Politics and Institutions of the European Union. Due to the nature of its functions, it also manages the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Bulgaria, although this is not formalized in this way. In the meantime, the preparation of the Presidency of Bulgaria was given entirely under the powers of Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva. In general, I can conclude that for some reason Mr. Borisov does not like the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Now, in the second term, key functions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were taken away. I only hope, Mr. Minister, that from now on and with the assistance of the Members of the National Assembly, further neglect and cut off the functions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be avoided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u17	Thank you. Please, when you ask questions and answers, stick to the time. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Vigenin, thank you for your concern about maintaining the functions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As you know, every government has its peculiarities and has the right to redistribute functions between the members of the Council of Ministers as it sees fit and considers that its work will run more normally. I do not accept the finding that the European Union's Directorate of Politics in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is led by the Deputy Prime Minister because that is not the case. It shall be directly administered by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Permanent Representation shall be headed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. However, we are in constant coordination with Mrs. Kuneva, and this is a matter of our internal organisation how exactly we will distribute our functions and will monitor the implementation of the respective priorities and policies, but I really thank you for your concern. I don't think the Prime Minister has a negative attitude towards the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in any way. This is a matter of internal redistribution of functions and duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u19	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. The next question to you is from MP Miho Mihov on evaluation of diplomatic representations and the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for migration pressure on the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u20	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At the end of the last century, the humanitarian and then the military crisis in the former Yugoslavia put the Bulgarian state to the test. We have dealt not badly with this challenge, but we have not put it as prevention in future refugee issues in the direction of early warning and interaction with neighbouring countries as early as in the germ of a humanitarian crisis. Our strong ministries "The Ministry of Justice and the Agency for Refugees" in September 2013 seemed to be not only surprised by the number but also by the directions for the invasion of foreign citizens on our territory. The shift of this problem is still up to date and there is a danger of becoming a systematic problem, which is why, after three months of asking my question, I am putting it again today. From the hearing of ministers in the caretaker government in the National Assembly, when we called them, I was under the impression that the state does not work and fights the consequences and consequences for Bulgaria, in the sense of retribution of the resource, human, financial, including the European Union. The fact that our people have no attitudes for integration of refugees into the Bulgarian society is of no consequence. My question to you, Minister, is: what is the assessment of diplomatic representations, of the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in a close and medium term of migration pressure on the Republic of Bulgaria in the context of threats to the level of our national security? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u21	Thank you. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mihov, answering, I will ask for some patience, because this is a really important question and perhaps my answer will be a little longer than the prescribed time, but I will ask for tolerance in this case. First of all, thanks for the question. It is infinitely important and we are constantly focusing on it, because it is largely a matter of national security. With the clarification that, in my opinion, part of the question, of course, relates to the competence of the Ministry of Interior and the State Agency of National Security and other institutions, I will introduce you to the assessments and views of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about the current state and the medium-term prospects for the development of the migration pressure on Bulgaria. First of all, I would like to point out that the current situation, although difficult in a number of respects, is not comparable to the situation since autumn 2013, when several waves of refugees and immigrants passing mainly through the Bulgarian-Turkish border caused a very complicated situation, unknown in the latest history of Bulgaria. I would also like to draw your attention to the observed increase in migration pressure from the beginning of 2015 compared to the same period last year. For example, in January this year, the number of identified persons for illegal migration at the entrance of the Bulgarian-Turkish green border amounted to 317 people in 106 people in January 2014. It can be expected that in March this year the number of foreign citizens who will take action to illegally enter the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria will continue to increase. It should be taken into account that after the construction of engineering and technical facilities along the border we find a shift of flow and an increase of attempts to cross the border crossing at the Bulgarian-Turkish border. I stop at this part of the border because there is an unparalleled pressure greater than in the sections of our border with Greece, the Republic of Macedonia, Serbia and Romania. The most significant is the number of illegal immigrants moving towards Bulgaria from the areas of military conflict mainly from Syria, but also from Iraq and Afghanistan. In this context, our assessment of the development of the migration situation is based on the analysis of the situation and trends in the development of conflicts in Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan. It is obvious that these conflicts are being replaced for the resolution of which the international community continues to make significant efforts. The severe situation, especially in Syria and Iraq, combined with the active actions of the Islamic State group, raises concerns about the continuing instability of the region and therefore about maintaining the migratory pressure on the European Union. We are convinced that the combined efforts of the international community will lead to the isolation and destruction of the structures of the organization, which will contribute to reducing tensions in the region. However, we take into account the complexity of the situation in Afghanistan and hope that the International Community's resolution support mission in Afghanistan, which began on 1 January this year after the withdrawal of the International Security Support Forces (ISAF) at the end of December 2014, will achieve the desired internal policy result. So far, the impact of conflicts and internal political instability in the countries of the Horn of Africa and West Africa on migration pressure in Bulgaria is less than the pressure on other countries - partners from the European Union. We continue to closely monitor these processes, given the possible dynamics and their development. We take into account that currently the main route used by illegal immigrants to enter Bulgaria passes through the territory of the Republic of Turkey. In this context, we continue to attach priority importance to strengthening Bulgarian-Turkish contacts and cooperation in particular on border and immigration issues. We attach particular importance to the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Turkey on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation and the improved interaction with the Turkish authorities on 1 October 2014. We are looking forward to the signing of two important documents as soon as possible - Agreement for common surveillance of the border and Agreement for the creation of a trilateral Bulgarian-Turkish-Greek border centre. We also hope that the work on the preparation of a bilateral protocol between Bulgaria and Turkey will begin in the near future to implement the Agreement with the European Union on the readmission of illegally staying persons.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u23	You'll probably use the back to finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u24	Of course, Mr. Chairman, I will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u25	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Mihov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, I am pleased with the scheme that you are developing because many state institutions are already committed to this, as I say, systematic problem. My concern is the fact that this month, five years ago, the European Union adopted and established an internal security strategy in five steps. One of these steps is precisely security management through border management. My challenge to your response is: the European Union is to engage much more seriously than we have so far, to draw resources from it, because migration pressure in Europe is 31.3% of all the pressure in the world. If Bulgaria stands up and is established as a corridor one of the ten, no, but the eleventh corridor, as it is said, has no one to thank us from the next generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u27	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Here you are, Mr. Mitov, to continue your response to the information.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u28	I would rather respond very briefly and essentially to Mr. Mihov. You're right, Mr. Mihov. When it comes to the funds and solidarity coming from the European Union, Bulgaria is one of the countries with the most serious migratory pressure at the moment from all the countries of the European Union, and it is quite down in the ranking with regard to the solo distribution of funds aimed at financing the asylum of potential refugees. Of course, this is also related to the fight against so-called foreign fighters. This question is constantly being asked by us. I have meetings in every single format and with all international organisations dealing with managing such problems, and our call is always for more solidarity in this case and for building mechanisms that can limit this pressure on Bulgaria. The European Union is already in, how can I say, a very dynamic regime of awareness of the problem, and as you know, in a large part of the countries in the Middle East and North Africa, diplomatic representation of the European Union will be sent people dealing specifically with security issues, attacking the issue of foreign fighters primarily, but it also applies to migratory pressure. There is already a hearing in the European institutions. I hope for greater solidarity and we cannot help but work in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u29	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the MP Christian Vigenin about the opening of new border crossings between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On 16 June 1999, an Agreement was signed between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia to open two new border crossing points connecting Simitli and Pechchevo municipalities; and Strumyani and Berovo, which entered into force on 13 September of that year. Later, in 2004, an agreement was signed to open a third point to connect the municipalities of Nevelino and Delchevo, approved by the government in July 2005. All three points so far have not been found. Over the years, various efforts have been made in order to implement these agreements, with words and promises being much more than cases, and the subject being raised without effect in every government and every parliament. You can see that by the shorthands. The nearest to realization was the Strumyani project with approved funding under the PHARE Programme, but the necessary infrastructure from the Bulgarian country was not built due to bankruptcy of the successful tender company. However, all facilities, including the buildings of the border crossing point, have been built on this point from the Macedonian side. My understanding, including in the period when I led the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has always been that it was precisely the lack of infrastructure from the Bulgarian side that caused the opening of the border crossings to slow down. Because of the government's resignation, my efforts have become impossible to activate the work and bring it to a real result. In response to my question on 28 November 2014, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova pointed out as the main reason for the delay in the construction of the necessary infrastructure a new road section and the rehabilitation of the existing from Strumyani to the border, a total of about 30 km, the lack of an approved and ratified international treaty, as a result of this and the lack of economic justification of the possible investment. In an attempt to assist the dialogue between the ministries and clarify the problem, I would like to ask you the following: do you consider an important element of good neighbourly relations the opening of new border crossing points that will facilitate contacts between people in trade and cultural exchange, and thereby help Bulgarian efforts to normalise relations between the two countries? To date, is the agreement signed in 1999, and if not, are you ready to initiate its renewal? And thirdly, is there an analysis of the economic effects of the opening of the Border Control Point (Clapallo) if not, do you intend to ask for one and from whom, with a clear understanding, however, that for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the attitude towards such a project cannot be based solely on economic benefits? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u31	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u32	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Vigenin! The Agreement signed on 14 June 1999 in Skopje between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia for the opening of two new international border crossing points between the two countries connecting the municipalities of Simitli Pechchevo, and Strumyani The agreement has an unlimited character and there is no evidence in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that action has been taken by the parties to it to terminate it. Regarding the opening of the new border crossings, the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is that the requirements resulting from our future accession to the Schengen area should be taken into account. In this context, as well as in view of the need to update the time limits laid down in the Agreement, it would be appropriate to examine the specific ideas for the construction of this crossing, including the possibility of a joint crossing with the Republic of Macedonia, at the next meeting of the Interdepartmental Council on Border Control. The topic of the border crossings has been discussed many times over the past years, given the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with regard to the opening of new border crossings. We want to follow the principle of continuity and we are ready to continue both the work on their construction and the implementation of cross-border projects. I will not dwell fully on the actions our country has taken in previous years on the construction of an appropriate road link to the border with the Republic of Macedonia, as Minister Pavlova provided only days ago detailed information on the technical projects for rehabilitation, reconstruction and the new construction of the road. I would also like to point out that the appropriate road infrastructure is only one of the prerequisites for opening a new border crossing. Data on existing and forecast traffic of road vehicles are of crucial importance. In this regard, the expert opinion of the competent Bulgarian institutions should be sought. In conclusion, I would like to confirm the unchanged opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that for the strengthening of the travel flow between the two neighbouring countries such as the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia, an additional number of border crossing points, including Clapalo, is needed. This will stimulate economic growth in border regions, increase investment opportunities and contribute to the growth of tourism and tourism services in Western Bulgaria. The possibility of more direct and intensive contacts, which will undoubtedly strengthen the opening of new points, will lead to the expansion of cross-border links, strengthening cultural cooperation and further convergence of people from our two countries. Of course, it also has its political dimensions within the Republic of Macedonia's path towards its European integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u33	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Vigenin, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, in this case I can say that I am pleased with your answer. It becomes clear that there are no international-legal obstacles to the realization of this project. He's wanted by the population on both sides of the border. Here we are not talking about a full-scale border crossing point, but about an opportunity for even relatives on both sides of the border to be able to cross directly instead of traveling over 100 km and for more than an hour to be able to reach two neighbouring municipalities across the border. In connection with my request a while ago, the Prime Minister confirmed or rather accepted the idea that the connecting infrastructure for this section of the border crossing should be presented for realization or financing under the plan. It is quite possible, even more so, that such a project has greater value not only for Bulgaria but also for the Republic of Macedonia. Perhaps other opportunities can be used. I believe that Bulgaria will not be serious if so many years is no longer able to build a few kilometers of new road, to rehabilitate another twenty-something kilometers old road so that it can make this infrastructure. You know that this issue has been repeatedly posed by a Macedonian country. Given that there is a positive opinion from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and such efforts are being made, I think it is appropriate for the government and the relevant ministries to take on a more active role. I hope that this cabinet, as well as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will remain positive in terms of bilateral relations with the Republic of Macedonia, something concrete and visible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u35	Thank you. Minister Mitov won't take advantage of the back. The next question is from the MP Boris Stanimirov about the visa requirements of the United States for Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, on 7 February 2014, the Republic of Bulgaria officially notified the European Commission that our country is affected by a lack of reciprocity with regard to the visa requirements of the United States of America for Bulgarian citizens. The European Regulation No 1289/2013 allows, following such notification, the European Commission to intervene immediately after a certain period of time on its own initiative or after an explicit additional request from the Member State, including the reciprocal introduction of visa requirements for certain categories of third-country nationals treating unequal citizens of the European Union. More than one year after the official note, it is not publicly known that the European Commission has taken any action that follows in the case. My questions to you are: do you have official information about the actions taken by the European Commission on the Bulgarian note? If no such action has been taken, what measures and within what deadlines will the Ministry of Foreign Affairs take to provide institutional assistance from the European Commission to remove US visa requirements against Bulgarian citizens? Is there progress in bilateral negotiations between Bulgaria and the United States on visa waiver?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u37	Thank you, Mr. Stanimirov. Mr. Mitov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stanimirov, before answering your specific questions, I would like to stress that against the background of the level of bilateral relations between Sofia and Washington, described repeatedly by both sides as strategic, allied and friendly, the visa regime of the United States for Bulgarian citizens is largely not brought to this level of relations. The Bulgarian government sees our country's accession to the US Government's visa-free travel programme as one of the important issues of both bilateral and transatlantic dialogue with the United States. At the beginning of February 2014, Bulgaria, as well as four other Member States of the European Union, which were not included in the Programme for visa-free travel by the US Government, Cyprus, Poland, Romania and Croatia, notified in writing the European Parliament, the Council and the European Commission of the absence of visa reciprocity by the United States in accordance with the provisions of Regulation of the European Union 1289/2013 and of the Council of the European Union. The information on the notifications was published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 12 April 2014, from when the time limits for taking specific action to eliminate visa non-reciprocity began. I would like to clarify that Regulation 1289 introduced an advanced mechanism for achieving visa reciprocity which provides for timely and effective response in cases where a third country enjoying visa-free regime in all Member States of the European Union introduces or maintains visa requirements for nationals of one or more Member States. This mechanism enables the Member States of the European Union to notify the European institutions of the absence of visa reciprocity with a third country. Consequently, in the event that the third country in question has not lifted the visa requirement for nationals of the Member State concerned within six months of the publication of the notification of the Member State concerned to the European Union's Official Journal, the European Commission may, at the request of that Member State or on its own initiative, suspend the exemption from the visa requirement for certain categories of nationals of the third country concerned for a period of six months. The Commission is obliged to submit to the Visa reciprocity Committee of the European Union a report assessing the situation in which it states the basis for the decision and does not suspend the exemption from the visa requirement. If, within 24 months of the publication of the notification of the Member State concerned in the The answers to the questions were necessary in order to clarify the general framework of how the Regulation in question works. With regard to the specific answers to the questions asked. As a reaction to the notification from Bulgaria and also from other Member States of the European Union, to third countries, including the United States of America, which benefit from visa-free regime in all Member States of the European Union and require visas for the citizens of one or more Member States, the European Commission has in a timely manner proposed that trilateral meetings be held in the format: a third country - the United States, the Member States affected by the visa regime, in the case of Bulgaria, Cyprus, Poland, Romania and Croatia, and the Commission. Tripartite meetings were intended to discuss the grounds for the visa regime and the necessary measures by the Member States and the third country to achieve full visa reciprocity in a non-long period of time. Bulgaria, as well as other Member States concerned, as well as third countries, including the United States, adopted the new approach proposed by the European Commission to resolve visa non-reciprocity. The first trilateral meeting of the United States of America was held in Brussels on 16 July 2014 by the Member States affected by the visa regime and the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u39	Let's put that detail in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u40	I'll keep it up, maybe in the back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u41	For now, it becomes clear that there will be visas. Here you go, Mr. Stanimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u42	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I am pleased with your understanding that the presence of visa requirements for Bulgarian citizens for the United States is inconsistent with the high level of cooperation, which, on the one hand, has the European Union with the United States and also Bulgaria in its bilateral relations. I expect you to put this matter before every American statesman you meet at every meeting until this regime is abolished. Because apart from the purely practical visa problem, these visas, as well as the Schengen area, represent a kind of discrimination and humiliating fact for Bulgarian citizens, and fuel anti-European and anti-Atlantic attitudes in Bulgarian society; they give arguments to various public forces to represent the Bulgarians as a second category of citizens of the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u43	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u44	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stanimirov, the subject is very extensive and I doubt I will be able to run it all out right now. I will provide you with all the details and necessary information so that you can get more acquainted with the meetings that have been held so far and where we are. The topic is placed every time, every time, every time, every opportunity from the Bulgarian side. You know that recently on a visit to Bulgaria was the Secretary of State of the United States and the topic was also raised. You know that four working groups have been established in which Bulgaria and the United States will work together to reach relevant concrete, practical dimensions of the results of the talks held in Sofia. One of these working groups is aimed at education, science and relationships between people. This means more scholarships for Bulgarian students who can take advantage of the opportunities to study at American universities in the United States, more opportunities for other young people who can be educated or visit the United States. Of course, visas remain a fundamental issue and we will continue to insist on their swift removal, including with the assistance of the European Commission and the relevant Regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u45	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to a request from the National Representative Julian Angelov on the application of an Interstate Agreement of 1961 between the Republic of Bulgaria and Tunisia and the situation of Bulgarian citizens working in Tunisia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u46	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Dear Minister, at present in Tunisia there are about 100 Bulgarian citizens working under contracts in the Tunisian state. Lecturers in different disciplines, doctors, medical staff and others. There are serious complaints about inadequate treatment of Bulgarian citizens working in Tunisia against all other citizens of other countries engaged in employment in Tunisia. The Bulgarian citizens working in Tunisia carry out their work on the basis of an Interstate Agreement of 1961. The Agreement was signed between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Tunisia and the Bulgarian trade company Technoimpex. The specifics proved that the Bulgarian side is obliged to present professor staff where there is a need on the territory of Tunisia. The Bulgarian staff's wages are arranged in an annex to the Agreement - First Additional Annex. A serious injustice has been committed with regard to Bulgarian staff. It shall not be provided by the host country for health and pension insurance. At present, the salaries of the Bulgarian staff are 800 dinars, the equivalent of which is about BGN 714, whereas the local staff holding the same positions receive 1500 dinars. Apart from that, the license of the "Technoimpex" JSC for activity in Tunisia has been revoked and currently the Bulgarian staff are represented by another state enterprise "Expomed" which is subordinate to the Ministry of Health and has another subject and field of activity in the field of medicine. It should be noted that under the Agreement, the principle of individual negotiation does not apply, which is contrary to all modern and established practices in the field of labour law. Apart from that, I believe that our diplomatic representation is currently not active enough in communication and in its actions to protect the rights of working Bulgarian citizens. In view of the dynamic domestic and political situation in the Tunisian state, I believe that it should be worked in the direction of deepening, increasing economic efficiency between the two countries and achieving protection of the rights of the Bulgarian citizens located in the Tunisian state. Dear Minister, it has been two months since I asked, I hope it is not up to date, but in view of the quick work of the Bulgarian diplomats, it is likely to be up to date again. My question is: will your administration support the following ideas, will you initiate on a diplomatic basis the conclusion of a new agreement with Tunisia to settle the labour and security rights of the Bulgarians working in Tunisia, and this agreement has waged a minimum equivalent payment to the Bulgarian staff with the Tunisian, holding the same positions? Will you initiate to arrange the matter for the Bulgarian staff to be provided with health and pension. Do you believe that the new agreement should give every Bulgarian citizen the right to have an individual negotiation of the conditions under which to work on the Tunisian territory, a individual employment contract with the Tunisian employer, which, according to the Tunisian country's data, has an understanding of the settlement of this issue with a designated International Treaty, but for this purpose is necessary activity of the Ministry of Interior, as the Tunisian side insists on equality between negotiators? That is, to settle the matter between the two foreign ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u47	Here you are, Mr. Mitov, for an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Angelov, from the very beginning of my answers I would like to point out that the issues of the protection of the labour rights of Bulgarian citizens working in the Tunisian Republic have been placed before the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We have taken these issues of coordination and coordination to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Employment Agency. To date, the following picture appears. The legal entity in the face of the company "Technoimpex" AD, which was authorised as an intermediary to sign in 1961 by a Bulgarian party The Agreement for the settlement of the situation of Bulgarian citizens working in Tunisia with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Tunisian Republic, is currently without registration for the conduct of an intermediate employment activity abroad. The term of office of the Board of Directors of "Technoimpex" AD expired on 21 May 2013 and there is no new data for the development of activity by the company. The reference to the Employment Agency found that there was no application from "Technoimpex" AD for the renewal of the issued under the Ordinance on the terms and conditions for carrying out the intermediate employment activity certificate, with a period of validity until 11 September 2012. The Employment Agency has repeatedly expressed support for establishing an interdepartmental working group with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Economy and the National Insurance Institute to discuss the situation with the Bulgarian citizens working in the territory of the Tunisian Republic and to prepare a proposal to resolve the existing problems. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is ready to participate actively in this working group after its establishment. In the period 22-24 September 2014, a fourth round of negotiations took place in Tunisia on a draft Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Tunisian Republic, on which the forms for the implementation of the Agreement and editorial specifications in the draft document were finally agreed. The text of the Agreement is prepared and the negotiation process is conducted by experts of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Our expectations are the Bulgarian-Tunisian document to be finalised and signed in 2015. The scope of the Agreement is limited to the applicable legislation and coordination of pensions. The personal scope of the Agreement shall include the persons insured by the two States whose rights have been subject to their laws. The Agreement introduces general principles of coordination of social security and equal treatment of persons within the personal scope of the Agreement, summation of periods of insurance and retention of rights in the process of acquisition and export of benefits. The draft Agreement does not regulate health rights as the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund did not express their readiness to commit to Tunisia. In view of the larger volume of tourists to Tunisia, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will follow the first few years after the entry into force of the Agreement, and with a maintained positive trend for more tourist traffic, there is an idea to propose extending the material scope at least with health care for the short stay. After receiving the translations of the draft documents from the Arabic language from Tunisia, the launch of a procedure for adopting a decision of the Council of Ministers to approve the projects as a basis for negotiating and authorising the Minister of Labour and Social Policy to sign them on behalf of the Republic of Bulgaria and as a competent authority. At present, the lack of a contract in the field of social security does not allow the insurance periods acquired under the laws of both Parties to be respected by the opposite party for the acquisition and use of social rights in both countries. To settle the employment and social situation of persons, the national legislation of each country in which they work or live shall apply. For this reason, at the time of their work in Tunisia, the labour and social rights of Bulgarian citizens should be subject to Tunisian legislation, and those rights arising under the legislation of the Tunisian Republic are of exclusive competence of the Tunisian authorities. Accordingly, alerts on infringements of Tunisian law should be addressed to the Tunisian authorities. It is their competence whether and on what grounds persons working as a sender by..Technoimpex................................... are also not insured for a pension under Tunisian legislation. From the point of view of international law, account should also be taken of the fact that, as of 1 March 1998, an Association Agreement between the European Union and the Tunisian Republic is in place, which contains a clear requirement for equal rights and treatment in relation to working conditions and access to social security. Art. 64, Art. 65 of the Agreement. On the basis of these texts it can be concluded that the work without employment contracts of Bulgarians in Tunisia should not be allowed if the Tunisian citizens, under identical conditions, could not work without employment contracts. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy pays attention to the claim that Bulgarian citizens who worked in Tunisia who were sent to work through the mediation of Bulgarian companies, foreign trade companies in the recent past, [[the President signals that time has run out]] do not have individual contracts of employment under the legislation of the host State. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has required information from the Bulgarian foreign trade companies about both the signed agreements and individual contracts of the persons in order to conduct legal analysis of their provisions on insurance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u49	Okay. Thank you. Mr. Angelov will have the opportunity for two supplementary questions, but let the questions and answers not read draft orders, but slightly more focused to put the questions. [[Reply from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]] No, because there were a number of draft arrangements in the question of asking. This is not a bill discussion. Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u50	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! I would like to ask the Bulgarian diplomats in Tunisia all these years and especially in recent years what measures have they taken to protect the interest of the Bulgarian citizens who work in the territory of the Republic of Tunisia? In my opinion and according to the Bulgarians who work and live in Tunisia, if the Bulgarian diplomats there had done their job right now we would not be asking this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u51	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u52	On the second question, whether it is possible to initiate an urgent re-negotiation of the agreements between "Technoimpex" JSC and the Tunisian country to increase the wages of Bulgarian citizens at least until the Tunisian remuneration, I could tell you that it is not possible to re-negotiate for the reasons already set out in my initial reply, namely "Technoimpex" JSC is not a legal entity in the Tunisian Republic at the moment and that such trade organisations should not be burdened with responsibility for the labour rights of the Bulgarian communities abroad. In conclusion and on the basis of the above information, I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, together with the other Bulgarian competent institutions, will continue to take all necessary measures to protect the legal rights of all Bulgarian citizens working abroad and working abroad, including in the Tunisian Republic. I could hardly make a retrospective of the work of Bulgarian diplomats over the years in the Tunisian Republic, but from my answer to the moment it should be clear that on the topics concerned in your question, Bulgarian diplomats together with the other Bulgarian institutions have worked actively. The problems are not only in diplomacy, but also as it becomes clear in the legal basis of the country in which Bulgarian citizens go to work. Such synchronization of cases in working legal relations is complicated and difficult enough, especially in the current situation, but I must assure you that the Bulgarian diplomats will be fully involved in the case at least at the moment. For this I can give you my guarantees as regards the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u53	Thank you, Mr. Mitov, for your answer. Mr. Angelov, would you like to express an attitude? [[Reply from MP Julian Angelov.]] Thank you. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova regarding the withdrawal of accreditations of the newspaper "Attack" and TV "Alfa."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister! Once again, the TV station "Alfa" and the newspaper "Attack" were subjected to harsh political repression and unprecedented censorship by the government. Journalists from TV and the newspaper were forbidden access to events in the building of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs indefinitely. At the TV station, Alpha and the newspaper Ataka took away the accreditations for your joint press conference with British Foreign Minister Philip Hammond, which took place on 14 January 2015 and attended all other Bulgarian media. The termination of accreditations has been notified by e-mail by the Press Centre of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The time limits and requirements for the accreditation of journalists for the event requested by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have been met. On the day of the visit of British Foreign Minister Philip Hammond and the day before the visit of US Secretary of State John Carey at the e-mail of TV.. Alpha. was received an email with the following content: The accreditation of TV..Alpha.................................... and the newspaper.......................................... was suspended for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs............................................................................................................................................. If you change, you will be asked immediately. The message was signed by the Directorate of Press Centre of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: why and on what legal basis on the day of the visit of British Foreign Minister Philip Hammond, and the day before the visit of US Secretary of State John Carey, the accreditations of the newspaper
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u55	Thank you. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u56	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Alexandrova! First of all, my sincere belief is that freedom of speech is a universal and inviolable value. [[Reply from the Parliamentary Group of Ataka.]] I would like to assure you that in either of my actions as Minister I have not violated what is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, I quote: "Everyone has the right to express his opinion and to spread it through speech, written or oral, by sound, image or otherwise. That's what the Constitution says.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u57	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u58	At the same time, I deeply believe that freedom of speech, although there are no limits, is indispensable to ethics. Before I respond specifically to the question you have asked, I would like to make some clarification on the subject. The accreditation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs concerns only the possibility of physical presence of the official events held in the Ministry building. The presence or lack of accreditation does not in any way affect the freedom of speech either of one or of another journalist to express his position on any event related to the foreign policy of the Republic of Bulgaria and to address questions to me and to receive answers on topics relating to my work as a minister and the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The decision of the management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to temporarily withdraw the accreditations of the newspaper "Ataka" and TV "Alfa" is dictated by purely practical considerations. The official events taking place in the Ministry building take place in compliance with a certain security order and measures, with which the teams of the two media do not comply. This behavior hinders the normal course of the event itself, the activities of the employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the peaceful work of the other representatives of the media. Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, I hope I was able to answer the first part of the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u59	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u60	As for your questioning, on what legal basis the management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has taken this decision, I would like to inform you that the granting and withdrawal of accreditations is not regulated in law. It is done on the basis of the existing internal rules of each institution. The condition for granting accreditation to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the representatives of the Bulgarian media are published on the official website of the Ministry in the section "Press Centre." In conclusion, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria is conducting an active foreign policy with which the Bulgarian society should be constantly introduced. That is why I hope that the institution I run will be fully reflected in the media space of the country. Thus, our compatriots will be informed of the current activities and successes of the government in foreign policy. Of course, as I had the opportunity to inform you about the normal course of journalistic activity is necessary compliance with basic rules and regulations,...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u61	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u62	...related to discipline and order, whose violation compromises the working conditions of the journalists themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u63	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Alexandrova, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u64	Dear Minister, first of all, you behave like the class leader. [[Voices by "Attacka": "Bravo, bravo!"]] Who are you to say who, how to behave and what questions to ask? Secondly, you limit the media that will ask you uncomfortable questions. You say, "I am ready to answer any questions, how exactly can they ask you from the TV station Alpha and the newspaper Ataka" when they are not there? With a carrier pigeon? How do you do that? Besides, you're talking about freedom of speech. Do you know where we are in the last free speech ranking? You've made a major contribution to this. What do you think? Where do you think you're running? Is there no accreditation in North Korea that doesn't suit you and doesn't ask you comfortable questions? You didn't actually answer when are you going to return the accreditation to the newspaper "Attack" and "TV" for the Foreign Ministry? When can they be there? [[Voices by "Attack": "Bravo, bravo!" and applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u65	Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u66	Freedom of speech in Bulgaria and where we are in the ranking is a big issue and a great pain. I don't think this has anything to do with the way the Ministry of Foreign Affairs issues accreditation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u67	Yes, you are!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u68	No. Look, that means you don't know the methodology by which the ranking itself is made. But let's not get into these conversations. Tv, Alpha and the newspaper, Ataka, are constantly able to ask me questions. They have them here in Parliament and in the Council of Ministers and everywhere. I mean, they've been chasing me everywhere and asking me questions. [[Reply from the Parliamentary Group of Ataka.]] Yeah, let's, let's! It's okay, I already said it. The accreditation of the TV station "Alfa" and the newspaper "Ataka" for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has nothing to do with freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u69	There is!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u70	It has to do with the way this television and this newspaper behaves when it comes to organising certain public events, because they interfere with other journalists as well. That's what I can tell you. When certain rules and ethics are followed, and these rules and ethics are known,...................... and these rules and ethics are known............................ if they are not known, we will tell you where to go to read them...................... to make clear that when we start acting normally, then we will restore accreditation to the relevant media. There's no problem with asking uncomfortable questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u71	Yes, you are!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u72	There are a lot of media that ask me uncomfortable questions all the time. The way you're acting right now is even indicative and proves why I was right to take away this accreditation. [[Woman cheering from GERB.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u73	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the MP Ilian Todorov about the Bulgarian population in the Western suburbs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! I can't help but think about the previous issue from colleague Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u75	No, don't, because we're going to have a discussion. I even let the control run more freely because some of your colleagues had the opportunity to ask questions from the Chamber. So let's move on to your question now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u76	Clearly, it is clear why you are hiding and do not want to allow television "Alfa" and the newspaper "Attack." It's clear! Because you've broken your backs and you've long been without them in front of your masters and you don't want anyone asking your masters the uncomfortable questions! [[Applause and applause from the Parliamentary Group of "Attack": "Bravo, bravo!".]] That's why you won't let them. But to the point. There are alarming economic, demographic and political processes developing in the Western suburbs that threaten the Bulgarian population there from complete extinction. Over the past 50 years, the number of Bulgarians in this area has fallen from 62 000 to 18 500 people. This is due both to the targeted policy of the Yugoslav and Serbian governments for assimilation and depopulation of this purely Bulgarian end and to the inaction of the Bulgarian foreign policy for effective protection of the rights and interests of the Bulgarians in the Western suburbs. At the same time, Serbian-Bulgarian summits in Belgrade and Sofia constantly point out that relations between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Serbia were never better. We, of course, have nothing against good Bulgarian-Serb relations, but we should not sacrifice our countrymen in the Western suburbs for these relations and keep them in the humiliating role of the co-operation bridge between the two countries. The good neighbourly relations between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Serbia must depend on the situation and prospects of our compatriots in the Western suburbs. In this regard, I ask you to answer: Have the Bulgarian Government or its appointed representatives taken action before the institutions of the European Union in order to acquaint them with the difficult situation of the Bulgarians in the Western suburbs and taken action for possible influence of Brussels on the Republic of Serbia, in the framework of the negotiation process for membership, to change the policy threatening the Bulgarian minority in the Western outskirts of extinction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u77	Thank you. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u78	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Todorov! I thank you for this question, which is undoubtedly extremely important and very relevant, especially in the context of our relations with the Western Balkan countries, which have confidently taken the path of European integration and have launched important structural and legislative reforms, including in the area of human rights and minorities. As early as its inauguration, the Bulgarian government announced one of its foreign policy priorities for governance in the period 2014 - 2018, which is a policy of support for the Euro-Atlantic integration of the Western Balkans in clear protection of the rights and legitimate interests of the Bulgarian communities there. I hope that by implementing this programme, we will give a new, more responsible and inclusive approach to our compatriots, corresponding to the common European practices in this area and aiming to fully and effectively participate the state institutions in support and protection of the interests of Bulgarian compatriots abroad. In this context, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has always followed and will continue to closely monitor the issue with the entire complex of rights of our compatriots, including in the Republic of Serbia. In particular, I would like to remind you that the problems of the Bulgarian national minority in the territory of today's Republic of Serbia have existed since the end of World War I. It is an indisputable fact that the situation of the Bulgarian national minority in the territory of today's Republic of Serbia has been unenviable for decades. Economic backwardness in the areas in which it lives leads to internal migration and depopulation. There are problems with training, access to media, religion, property rights, political representation and so on. It is precisely in order to realize the full volume of the Bulgarian national minority in the Republic of Serbia that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is making serious and systematic efforts within the framework of bilateral relations with the Republic of Serbia. Our position and expectations are clear: it is necessary for the competent authorities in the Republic of Serbia to make more efforts with regard to the practical application of domestic legislation regulating the rights and protection of national minorities in Serbia. Bulgaria has never deviated from this position before, which has been reconfirmed in recent months to Serbian officials at the highest and highest level. The active work of the Bulgarian foreign policy in this direction imposed a positive trend in discussing these issues with Serbia in seeking a mutually beneficial solution based on the friendly and good neighbourly relations that exist between us. Bulgaria also continues to consistently and firmly defend the position and interests of our compatriots before international institutions. The European Commission is regularly informed of the concerns of the Bulgarian country about the continuing problems of our compatriots in the field of education, access to media and religion in the mother tongue. As you know, always in the focus of the European Union in negotiations with candidate countries an important place is the state of human rights, including minorities. This is also evident to Serbia, which started negotiations on accession to the European Union in January 2014. Since the beginning of the negotiations, a number of recommendations have been made by the European Commission to Serbia to harmonise their legislation in this area, which the regular progress report published in October 2014 on Serbia, where special attention has been paid to the problems of national minorities in areas directly affecting the Bulgarian national minority. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In addition, it was decided in the negotiation process that Serbia would prepare a special action plan for national minorities under Chapter 23 by the end of 2015 to include measures and objectives to address these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u79	Thank you. Mr. Todorov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Minister, as far as I understand from you, we must wait for the favor of the Republic of Serbia to change its legislation in order to improve the life and existence of the Bulgarians in the Western suburbs. We heard that by the end of 2015, the Serbs had to take some steps to prevent the Bulgarians from being discriminated against and placed in the situation they are currently in. At the same time, Minister, I would like to inform you that at the moment the mayor of Bosilegrad, who is from Kostunica's party, forbids the Bulgarians from celebrating on 19 February the anniversary of the hanging of the Apostle of Liberty Vasil Levski. The people, the Bulgarians there, cannot honor the Apostle's memory of freedom, and we can wait for the Serbs to do something useful by the end of 2015. They could have done it in the last 5, 10, 15 years, but they don't want to. They want to assimilate the Bulgarian population, this population to be with Serbian and not Bulgarian self-awareness. They've proven it over time. We cannot wait for them to voluntarily make changes that are for the good of the Bulgarians there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u81	Thank you. Here's a line for you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u82	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Todorov, at first you said in your question that you are maintaining the development of good neighbourly relations between Bulgaria and Serbia, but from your reply I understand the opposite of that you doubt the good will of the Serbian authorities. [[Noise and lines from SG to Ataka.]] There are two things to say. The first one I said in my answer, I don't know why you missed it. We ask the question all the time. The Bulgarian state will also participate and will create conditions for the Bulgarian communities in the Western suburbs to feel connected to Bulgaria, on the one hand. On the other hand, the strength of the European Union is that, because of the direction of European integration, the countries that want to join, we have come to Bulgaria this time, must comply with certain conditions and meet certain criteria. One of these criteria is precisely respect for the rights of national minorities. Serbia already has legislation that obliges it in a certain direction. It must be supplemented by 2015, and they will have to do so. I do not doubt the good will of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, it will be stimulated on our part at every possible moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u83	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let us interrupt and take a break here, as at 10:30 there is an exhibition for Todor Vlaikov. I'm calling a break till 11.10. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u84	Please take your seats in the Chamber so that we can continue with parliamentary control, as announced before the break. We're continuing the hearing. The People's Representative Ilian Todorov has the floor on a signed Platform for Protection the rights of the Bulgarian minority in the Western suburbs. This is a sequel to your previous question, you can develop it. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u85	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Minister, in the summer of 2013 at the initiative of the President of the Bulgarian Cultural and Information Centre in Bosilegrad Mr. Ivan Nikolov, the National Council of the Bulgarian Minority in Serbia, the Bulgarian parties and civil associations in the Western suburbs, concerned about the deteriorating situation of the Bulgarian minority and worried about the negative processes, held a broad public debate and signed the Platform for the Protection of the Rights of the Bulgarian Minor in the Western suburbs. We are talking about a document supported from a political, legal and diplomatic point of view. With this platform they urged the governments of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Parliament to implement a package of measures to create conditions for normal national, economic and cultural development of the Bulgarians in the Western suburbs. Are our compatriots' demands on this platform discussed at the government meeting or foreign policy level between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Serbia, and what is the opinion of the Serbian side on this issue? That is my question to you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u86	Here you are, Minister, for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u87	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Todorov, I fully share your view on the importance of this document, which united all Bulgarian organizations in Serbia and which was approved unanimously by the National Council of the Bulgarian National Minor in Serbia as the legitimate representation of our compatriots before the Serbian authorities. The document clearly shows the desire of the representatives of the Bulgarian national minority to work together with the authorities in Serbia and Bulgaria to overcome the severe socio-economic situation in the Western suburbs and the related challenges they face. Through the mechanisms of its foreign policy, Bulgaria has repeatedly presented to the Serbian country the issue of the situation and rights of our compatriots, including the issues posed by the platform. I already said that in the answer to the last question. In a bilateral plan Bulgaria emphasized that the Bulgarian national minority is an important factor determining the dynamics of the Bulgarian-Serbian political dialogue, the contacts between industry ministries and civil structures in the interests of Serbia's European integration. In recent years, we have seen a new more engaging stage in bilateral relations with Serbia, requiring both sides to make efforts to implement it with concrete content. Only in the past two years have official working meetings been exchanged and held at President-level, three at Prime Minister level, six at Foreign Minister level. During all the meetings the Bulgarian country frankly and in a constructive spirit shared with our partners from the Republic of Serbia its concern about the serious socio-economic situation of our compatriots in the Western suburbs, as well as its readiness for constructive partnership with the Serbian authorities in search of practical solutions to overcome problems related to the lack of textbooks for the Bulgarian classes, mother tongue awareness and other issues embedded in the platform. In this direction was held on 3 October 2013 unprecedented in the history of the Bulgarian-Serbian relations working meeting of the then Prime Minister and the current first Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister of Serbia Mr. Ivica Dacic with the leadership of the National Council of the Bulgarian National Minor and representatives of Bulgarian organizations in Serbia, to which our compatriots made clear their requests to the Serbian authorities for solving their problems in key areas. When putting the issues, including bilaterally, the Serbian side has assured that it takes account of the problems of the national minority and will take action to resolve them. I assure you that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is seeking the maximum use of all possibilities, including by updating and updating the bilateral legal basis, in this direction negotiations on the conclusion of an interstate agreement on good neighbourliness and friendship and a new three-year programme for cooperation in the field of education, the texts of which address the issues mentioned in the platform regarding the situation of the Bulgarian minority. In order to improve the situation of the Bulgarian national minority in Serbia, as I have already pointed out in response to your previous question, we are working on several main directions, including within Serbia's integration process towards the European Union. In this process, as so far, Bulgaria will continue to ask Serbia for visible progress and a clear commitment to the practical implementation of the entire complex of rights of our compatriots, which they enjoy under Serbian legislation and international acts to which Serbia is a country. I am convinced that the dynamic development of relations and open dialogue with the authorities in Serbia remains the only possible way to resolve all current issues related to our minority. I would like to reiterate that achieving concrete results on these issues and priority of the Bulgarian government and we will continue to defend this policy in the interests of our compatriots. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u88	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. Mr. Todorov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u89	Mr. Minister, I'm partially satisfied with your answer. I really hope that there will finally be some real and concrete solution to this case and this problem, and what you are saying will not be another empty talk that we have been listening to for many years. Once again, I hope that these problems will be resolved by the Bulgarians who live in the Western Outskirts and I assure you that we from Ataka will continue to monitor the development of this problem and we will take adequate measures when we see that these are just another empty talk. I hope I'm wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u90	Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u91	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Todorov, thank you for the constructive way you replicate. Of course these are long-standing problems and you are in your right, it is your duty to keep track of how things are going. That's clear. However, I would like to tell you this: please, when you speak from this tribune, at least the information is correct. That's my request. Because a moment ago you said that the people of Bosilegrad would not have the right to honor the Apostle's memory on February 19th, which is not true. Such an event will be held. It's authorized by the authorities. Same as with some bases, same as with mobilization, same as here with some missiles. I'm asking you to be correct when you provide information. I'm not picking on you. Don't take it as a pickle. It's a request from me. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u92	Thank you. In the end, many topics came up again. Mr. Todorov, talk to the Minister to restore the accreditation of the newspaper Ataka. There is now a question from the MPs Zhelyo Boychev and Christian Vigenin about the protection of the Bulgarian minority in Ukraine. Mr. Boychev will develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The escalation of the conflict in Ukraine led to several waves of partial mobilization by the Ukrainian authorities. Unfortunately, we are witnessing a higher percentage of mobilisation among minority groups, including the Bulgarian minority. This led to the creation of tension. There were also civil riots among the Bulgarian minority regarding the desire of Ukrainian authorities to be covered in mobilization and sent into the real conflict of combat. The most unpleasant thing is that we are witnessing a situation in which Bulgarians face war against Bulgarians. All this cannot leave us as a country that must protect its compatriots. Since the introduction of our question with colleague Vigenin, there have been several timid public appearances by the foreign minister. That is why I wish today the parliamentary tribune he clearly stated: what is the position of the Bulgarian government on the mobilization among the Bulgarian minority in Ukraine? In particular: what actions does our government provide from now on for the protection of Bulgarians in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u94	Thank you. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u95	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Boychev! Before I begin the answer to the question, I just want to tell you if you think my appearances have been timid lately, it is because I did not want to be aggressive towards the opposition, but I wanted to provoke some national debate on the issue and a slightly more responsible attitude on these issues precisely with regard to the Bulgarian minority and what is happening from the crisis in Ukraine. I could have been a lot sharper. When it comes to the state of our national minority in Ukraine, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs monitors with particular attention, has always followed with particular attention what is happening in Ukraine with regard to the conflict, including in relation to the increasing number of mobilized within the fourth wave of mobilization in the country, whether it is proportionate or disproportionate their total number. We are in constant contact with the Bulgarian diplomatic representations in Ukraine. The Embassy in Kiev and the Consulate General in Odessa, as well as with the authorities in Ukraine to clarify what is happening. The issue of the situation of the Bulgarian national minority in connection with the mobilization was already raised before the Ukrainian ambassador in Sofia. It will be discussed during the upcoming visit of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Pavlo Klimkin to Bulgaria. We are getting an understanding from the Ukrainian side of our concern. We strive not to allow the issues raised to be used manipulatively by third parties for their benefit, but to work together with the Ukrainian authorities in the interests of our countrymen, with an understanding of their problems. Our understanding is that the Bulgarians in Ukraine are loyal citizens and we are convinced that they would not deviate from compliance with the laws of the country in which they live. At the same time, however, we hope that the Ukrainian authorities will not allow a violation of the principle of proportionality in determining the number of persons subject to mobilization in places with a compact Bulgarian population and will take the necessary action to prevent tensions in areas with a Bulgarian or other minority. At the same time, a package of measures has been prepared at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which includes: instructions have been sent to the Bulgarian Embassy in Kiev and the Consulate General in Odessa to facilitate the issuance of visas for ethnic Bulgarians from the regions of military action in Ukraine. Secondly, given the complicated humanitarian situation, especially in the Donbas region, where military action is being conducted, the Ministry is preparing a solution for providing humanitarian aid to ethnic Bulgarians in Ukraine, with the format and way of providing it are in the process of specifying it. Along with these emergency measures, the issue of possible increase in the access of ethnic Bulgarians to Bulgarian radio and television through free distribution of Bulgarian media is also addressed. Possibilities are sought for common Bulgarian-Ukrainian initiatives in the field of culture, education, as well as projects under our communication strategy, the conduct of events and the implementation of visits to areas populated with compact Bulgarian population. I'd like to say two more things. On January 29th, during the Council's meetings, a text entered the Council's conclusions, which again called on the Ukrainian Government to address the issue of proportionality of mobilization. Literally before I came to you I had a meeting with Anton Kisse. You know well who he is. I recommend that you see him. He will give you a very nice picture, it is not a nice but very clear and accurate picture of what is happening. What I learned from him is that there is no disproportionate mobilization, rather there are severe problems in the organization with regard to mobilization, which creates tension. But with his efforts, as well as the government's efforts during the talks ahead, we hope that these issues will be clarified. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Humanitarian aid will be prepared, provided. What we have done is quickly, urgently, to provide opportunities for Ukrainian citizens of Bulgarian ethnic origin to be able to benefit from relieved visa services, so that if the conflict affects them and if there is a danger to their lives, the Bulgarian state can react quickly and accommodate them. It's done, that's what they're talking about. We welcome the truce achieved by Minsk and hope that it will greatly reduce tensions in terms of mobilization, proportionality, non-discrimination and whether the lives of people of Bulgarian ethnic origin in Ukraine are threatened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u96	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. It became an answer to a question, but since the topic is important, you also used additional information. Mr. Vigenin, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I can only confirm that we believe that your reaction was a little bloated and late. You should be sharp not to the opposition, but sharp to those who create the problem that excites the whole Bulgarian society. I personally expected you to show more courage, to raise the question of the mobilization of ethnic Bulgarians and to bring them into such a fratricidal conflict on both sides of the front line, not to talk about the need for proportional mobilization. At a critical moment for ethnic Bulgarians, I did not hesitate, although my actions could be interpreted as interference in internal affairs, but a concrete result was achieved. Here, with the support of Parliament, I think that you yourself will receive support for a clearer, more firm position before the Ukrainian authorities. Otherwise, the thesis on the relieved issuance of visas, humanitarian aid is good. It is good to think about easing bureaucratic procedures and strengthening the capacity of the Consulate General in Odessa in this situation, because you know that the problem is standing and it itself is not in a position, despite the instructions for a lighter issuance of visas, to do this work because its capacity is insufficient. You'll get support here, too. I'd say it's good to look beyond today, because the situation isn't just over with the current dramatic days. Hopefully, as you said, the arrangements will be implemented and the war will stop, but there are a few things I will allow myself to give them as advice. First, yesterday was adopted the proposal of BSP left Bulgaria to establish a permanent parliamentary committee on policies for Bulgarians abroad. This is a very important institutional instrument that no government has ever had as a partner. Use it as much as you can. Secondly, I believe that it is within the framework of the rules, together with your colleagues from Romania, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, to put before the Ukrainian side the issue of allowing dual citizenship for representatives of ethnic minorities of EU member states. This fits in Kiev's ambitions for convergence with the European Union, and at the same time will solve to a large extent one of the most problematic issues for the Bulgarian minority, namely the non-solving of dual citizenship forces them, if they want Bulgarian, to give up Ukrainian. I think this is not European practice. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Third, let's pay attention to the transport links and road and ferry with Bulgaria. Through the association process to seek the realization of projects in this direction financed by European funds. And fourth, to analyse the Association Agreement and for a deep and comprehensive free trade area in order to stimulate trade and Bulgarian investments in these areas, because without a strong economic presence many of the measures we are taking will simply hang. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u98	You won't use the hole. Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, honourable MPs! A Bill for ratification of a deal for dealership, a contract for agency and an Act for taking over liabilities from the Republic of Bulgaria was submitted to the National Assembly for 16 billion. lv. It's a new foreign debt. At the moment, state liabilities are relatively balanced s 50% of the debt is external, 50% is internal. The assumption of this debt dramatically violates this ratio in favour of external debt without any justification. It is the paradoxical situation that Bulgarian banks are super liquid and we will pay interest, notice, up to 10%, provided that the main interest rate of the European Central Bank is 0.5%. What's that supposed to mean? I will not comment that the interest at which the last external debt was recorded is 3.05%. Where does this difference of 7% come from, or rather where will it go? Today poor Bulgaria deposites its currency reserve at interest of 0.5% and borrows much more expensive. It's unclear what the brokerage fee is. The government refers to some mythical global medium-term bond issue programme, but hardly any MP has seen this programme. It would be good for her to present herself to the National Assembly. Dear Members of Parliament, there is no need for this loan. The Act on the State Budget of the Republic for 2015 provides for a drastic increase in government debt of 8 billion. 100 million. BGN 6,9 billion lv. external, and 1 billion 200 million. lv. domestic debt. This increase and the interest on it burden the Bulgarian taxpayer with more than 1000 BGN. to a person, along with the children. Remember your reaction on the right when the previous government took a debt of 1 billion. lv. And the white bus. And the siege of parliament. And the president's veto. Why don't we discuss the danger of a debt spiral now? In 2004, Greece had 63 billion. Euro external debt. In 2008, her debt was over 500 billion. The long-term funding of a growing deficit is an extremely dangerous way in which, if one country goes, going back is very painful. Increasing the deficit and debt in this way is irresponsible to both us and future generations. This is the literal quote from the motives of President Plevneliev's veto "The President, who is silent today." Is this the way the government leads us today? The government does not have prior agreement on this huge amount of debt issued, and on 6 February the contracts for dealership and agency are signed, and the Act for taking over obligations from the Republic of Bulgaria. This was done without a mandate by the National Assembly, in violation of the Constitution. 84, p. 9. Yesterday the two committees of the National Assembly refused and did not support this heavy burden for the Bulgarian taxpayer, despite the gymnastics of recognition and non-confession of votes. Dear MPs, BSP left Bulgaria insists the government to withdraw the submitted bill. We demand that the government present its intentions for external loans to the National Assembly and justify the specific need for them. Everything else is in violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Act on the State Budget of the Republic of 2015, and most of all in violation of the interests of Bulgarian citizens who will pay these obligations, but not only today's citizens, but also their children. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u100	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. We are now moving on to the questions asked by MPs to Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy. First will be asked by the People's Representative Petar Slavov about the actions taken by the Ministry of Energy in response to a letter from the European Commission of 21 October 2014 on unlawful State aid in energy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, my question to you is about the actions taken by the Ministry of Energy in response to a letter from the European Commission of 21 October 2014, I have quoted the number that ends in 695 on unregulated State aid in energy. In particular, as far as I have information, this letter concerns the long-term contracts for the purchase of electricity from the TPP, Maritsa East 1s and TPP Maritsa East 3s. I hope you have it and you've been able to meet it. Dear Minister, according to the quoted letter, the European Commission raises a number of questions to the Bulgarian state with a view to indicating the existence of illegal State aid in a portfolio of State aids. In particular, the Commission is interested in the long-term contracts of the TPP "Maritsa East 1" and TPP "Maritsa East 3" and the conditions under which the purchase price of the electricity produced is determined, the amount of investments made and their repayment and others. In the light of the above, Minister, please answer the following question: do you believe that the indications in the European Commission's letter of unlawful State aid are justified? What actions do you intend to take, including... do you think that these long-term contracts for the purchase of electricity can be renegotiated for the benefit of the public interest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u102	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. For a response Minister Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Slavov, the European Commission's Directorate-General for Electricity was formed proceedings concerning alleged State aid in the form of long-term contracts for the purchase of electricity. The production aims to establish whether State aid is granted and, in case it is granted and qualified as an "indeterminate', the beneficiaries of the aid will have to recover it. In this regard, the European Commission raised questions concerning the factology of the main elements of unlawful State aid under European law. The deadline for replying to the State was 11 December 2014. On the basis of an in-depth analysis of the facts relating to the conclusion and implementation of long-term contracts for the purchase of electricity and within the specified period, the Ministry of Energy provided the European Commission with the available information on the case. The possible qualification of long-term contracts for the purchase of electricity as unlawful State aid will take place at the conclusion of the investigation, with the European Commission responsible for making these qualifications and, more precisely, the Directorate-General for Electricity. In May and November 2014, the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission adopted decisions the National Electricity Company to negotiate with the two US power plants in connection with the contracts for the long-term purchase of the produced electricity. At present, trade negotiations are being conducted between the parties to these contracts, the aim being to achieve optimal protection of the interests of NEC and final customers and arrangements which to the greatest extent meet market conditions at the moment. Without going into details, I will make it clear that the course of talks with our American partners so far gives me optimism that in relatively short time we can achieve mutually acceptable conditions for both sides. Re-negotiation of long-term contracts for the purchase of electricity from the two US power plants of the complex of Maritsa East is one of the priority tasks of the government in the sector.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I would like to stress that fulfilling this commitment is one of the key factors for achieving stability in the sector in the interests of Bulgarian consumers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u104	Line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I thank you for this answer. I'm glad the Ministry of Energy is working on it. As far as I understand it, negotiations are also being held with the owners of these two plants, which, as we all know, are often indicated for one of the reasons for the necessary increase in electricity periodically, as electricity is being purchased from there at preferential prices. These preferential prices were negotiated a long time ago with a view to restoring the investment in sero-cleaning and other expensive investments in ecology. If this is really already realized at this time, then it is not justified to buy at such high prices and to load the pocket of the end consumer, of every Bulgarian citizen. I once again express my satisfaction that at the Ministry, and you are specifically working seriously on this case. I hope that you will make maximum efforts to use this particular case and to ask by the European Commission and to achieve a renegotiate of the treaties in question. This will actually be in the interest of both the end-user, as it is expected that the price will not increase, and for the owners of these power plants themselves, as I think you have also mentioned, the possible finding of unregulated State aid can have very severe consequences for them. They understand that very well. There are precedents, as far as I know, in Hungary, if I am not mistaken, a similar investor has had to repay the amounts received, which in fact has had a very serious impact on its financial situation. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u106	A hole? You won't use it. The next question is from the MP Martin Dimitrov about extending the resources for operation of the V and VI block of the NPP.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u107	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I asked this question on 7 November last year because of its importance to Bulgarian society. The extension of the V and VI block of the NPP of Kozloduy and their re-licensing should be a national priority and commitment of all parliamentary groups. Since then, we have taken a number of actions, such as a hearing in the Energy Committee, which has shown that the timetable for extending the resource and planned actions are being implemented, but several pending issues remain. I saw Mrs. Petkova's personal commitment to this topic. She herself understands that this is one of the main priorities in her mandate, on which we are not entitled to any mistakes. Even if mistakes have been made in the past, they must now be corrected. In this regard, Mrs. Petkova, my question to you, which was raised at a meeting of the Economic Commission, is: is the investment programme provided for the necessary actions in relation to the extension of the life of the V and VI block of the nuclear power plant I am now calling on you to pay attention, because the practice of the past shows that, with regard to energy projects, some amounts are being started for the necessary modernisation actions and they are constantly being increased. I suggest we don't let that happen this time. Yes, this is a top priority, the funds must be found, so I ask you now in front of Parliament: are they provided so far? If they're not, we'll do everything we can to make this happen as soon as possible. He's got a few ideas. One idea was launched by my colleague from GERB Delyan Dobrev. He proposed that Kozloduy will not pay a dividend in order to ensure the necessary funding for the investment programme. That's a good idea. If it is not realized, reservations may be found alternative in the budget. But for us, it is important to know all the MPs, and especially those from the Reformation Block, whether this investment programme has already been provided and all the activities that are planned will be carried out in time because, I repeat, the extension of the life of the V and VI Block is an exceptional priority?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u108	Reply "Ms. Minister."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u109	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Dimitrov! A basic requirement for new licences is the existence of an assessment of nuclear safety and radiation protection and an assessment of the actual condition of the facilities of the relevant block. In fulfilling these requirements, the activities related to the continuation of the life of the V and VI unit of the NPP are divided into two main stages. The first stage of a comprehensive survey of the actual condition of the facilities of the relevant block; and the second stage of implementation of a block preparation programme for the continuation of the service life of the relevant block. The implementation of the first stage has already been completed. The complex investigation for both units was carried out in the period 2012-2014 according to a methodology meeting the highest safety standards of the European Union. The results of the complex audit show that the technical condition of the constructions, systems and components of the V and VI energy blocks of the NPP. The necessary technical and organisational measures resulting from results in the complex investigation are planned in the corresponding preparation programmes for the continuation of the lifetime. The programmes for the V and VI bloc were agreed following a review by the Nuclear Regulatory Agency in May and December 2014 respectively. The completion of this process allowed the launch of the second stage of the investment project in the implementation of the preparation programme for the continuation of the duration of the V and VI block. The measures will be implemented in the period 2014 - 2016 for the V block and in the period 2016 - 2018. For the VI block. With regard to the funding provided, I can inform you that the business programme of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" for the period 2014 - 2019 provides for appropriate funds and financial resources to ensure the implementation of the second stage of the project, but the amount needed in total for the modernisation of the V and VI block is more than 270 million. EUR, up to now in relation to all the activities that have been carried out, have been paid around 190 million. lv. Here I can make it clear that an option is also being considered to provide funding with regard to the extension of the life of the V and VI block of the NPP "Kozloduy" because we are very well aware that this is extremely important and is our top priority in the sector. We are working on several options to provide funding for the extension of the life of the V and VI block of the NPP. I would like to assure you that we are taking this task extremely seriously so that we can deal with it within the prescribed deadlines. What I can say with regard to the time resource at our disposal for extending the life of the V and VI block of the NPP "Kozloduy" is that in terms of extending the life of the V block in practice we do not have a reserve of time. This means that we all need to mobilize our efforts, as quickly as possible both the administration, and therefore our colleagues from the nuclear power plant, so that we can fit into the program, which is literally scheduled by months in connection with the extension of the life of the V block of the nuclear power plant. In conclusion, Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I use the case to assure both you and the Bulgarian society that the extension of the life of the V and VI bloc is our main task and we will do our best to make this happen within the term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u110	The line, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u111	Dear Minister, I would like to express satisfaction with your response and yet to complete several important elements. One of them is the hearing in question, and I asked representatives of the NPP, Kozloduy, and the Nuclear Regulatory Agency to engage in a specific amount of necessary modernisation. They said 270 million. Euros. I recommend that we request a reference from countries that have made such an extension of the life of reactors and compare the cost of activities with comparable projects so that we can have control. A bad practice over the years is that when it comes to nuclear projects, the price is constantly rising and often this is unfounded. Sometimes there are really reasons for increasing the value, but often, unfortunately, this becomes unfounded and illogical, and it is good to have prices on comparable projects. There are several countries in Europe that have made such an extension of life and have made comparable costs with what Bulgaria does. That's one. The second thing I am calling on you is that we do not delay finding the necessary funds at all, because for the V block we do not have a free resource of time and we do not have the right to delay at all. Of course, I will not go into the tone of the conspiracy that someone deliberately led us to a condition in which we do not have a time reserve in terms of extending the life of the V block of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" but I do know, Mrs. Petkova, that people who want to build new nuclear power plants, whether it be Belene, or the VI block of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" do not really want, although they say other things before the Bulgarian society, the V block gets a new license. For this reason, ask our assistance to the Bulgarian Parliament to provide the necessary investment funds. You should also be a guarantor of control at every stage. I like your idea that ADFIs will normally have a much greater participation in the energy sector. That is why we from the Reformation Block will support you. But control spending the funds for this modernization so we don't have another unpleasant example. These examples have always irritated Bulgarian society and Bulgarian taxpayers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u112	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I would like to thank you for your constructive proposal. We are also considering a comparative analysis with regard to the costs that have been incurred for similar modernization, extending the lives of nuclear power units. With regard to control over the spending of public funds, as we are talking about a very serious financial resource, which will be involved in the modernisation and reconstruction of the V and VI block of the NPP, we have this as a priority and our main task. In this regard, the proposed amendments to the Energy Act relating to the extension of the control powers of the State Financial Inspection Agency for the implementation of annual controls on all energy undertakings, including the Kozloduy nuclear power plant. Here we have considered the potential risk of whether these public funds will be spent in the most efficient, efficient and economic way. So we have taken such action and we hope that they will be successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u114	The next question is the National Representative Georgi Nedev's assessment of the work of the balancing electricity market. Here you go, Mr Nedev. [[National Representative Martin Dimitrov says he has not asked his second question.]] Excuse me, Mr. Nedev. Mr. Dimitrov, since I gave him the floor, do you mind if we listen to Mr. Nedev, or do you insist on taking the floor right now? [[The National Representative Martin Dimitrov gives the floor to the National Representative Georgi Nedev.]] Gentlemanly attitude! Thank you. It's my fault. Here you go, Mr Nedev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u115	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The accepted market model for electricity trading in the country contains two elements. The first element is contracts between commercial actors, and the second element is a balancing energy market that covers the non-balances arising in this market. Bulgaria's balancing electricity market started from June 1, 2014. Despite enough time for prior training of the participants, only a month after its launch in the balancing market, a number of weaknesses and imperfections have been observed, which continue to manifest at present. Here are some specific examples. The first thing that impressed impartial market participants is that paradoxical prices of balancing energy appeared. For example, in August 2014, the highest price for non-balance was BGN 1720. for megawatt hours, without it being clear which are the sources of this energy at such high target levels. Perhaps the Ministry knows that since the start of the balancing market so far, sources of balancing energy, contrary to common European practice, are not published, making the balancing market of electricity opaque, unclear and unpredictable for participants. A particularly negative impact on the functioning of the balancing market gives the fact that the public supplier makes adjustments to the daily schedules of participants in the balancing market in violation of the Energy Act, but referring to the rules on electricity trading, which clearly contradict this law. In addition, there is a discriminatory distribution of non-balances between the participants. To date, no monitoring data has been published on the current balancing market as provided for in the rules on electricity trading. After all that has been said so far, my question to you, Madam Minister, in relation to the balancing market, is: [[President's signal that time has run out]] what is the Ministry of Energy's assessment of the operation of the balancing electricity market and the pricing of balancing energy compared to Europeans? What measures will you take to ensure transparency of balancing energy sources and compliance with trading rules by all participants?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u116	I ask the Members of the National Assembly to stick to the time set for the development of the matter. You have a minute and ten seconds on top.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u117	It's an important question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u118	We're listening, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr Nedev! The work of balancing energy markets in individual EU Member States is organised in a different way, with no European regulation currently introducing requirements for harmonisation of principles and applied algorithms. A mechanism for collecting information from individual transmission system operators shall be developed within the European Network of Transmission System Operators, but a lean system for comparison and reporting on publication within and outside the European Network of Transmission System Operators has not yet been established. The electricity system operator shall administer the balancing energy market and shall, for each month, draw up the so-called "Setelment" that reflects the direct results of the balancing market's work for its participants. The national electricity company appears on the balancing energy market as a participant with the relevant obligations for coordinator of special balancing groups. The balancing energy prices, for surplus and for shortage respectively, are public for a large number of transmission system operators in Europe, including Bulgaria. Transparency in terms of prices and sources of balancing energy shall be ensured according to art. 17 of Regulation No 543/2013 of the European Union. As an electricity market administrator, the electricity system operator shall publish balancing energy prices for surplus and shortage for each settlement period, after final financial settlement has been completed, within the time limits and in accordance with the rules laid down in the electricity trading rules. With regard to ensuring transparency of balancing energy sources, the following measures will be taken. First, after obtaining agreement from balancing energy suppliers, the electricity system operator will start to publish the prices that these suppliers offer for regulation up or down, respectively, in terms of prices. Secondly, the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has adopted a decision on the administrative determination of service prices which affect prices for energy shortages and energy surpluses, as well as the setting of marginal prices for balancing energy suppliers. The service prices will be published on the electricity system operator's website. As I have already mentioned, hourly prices for energy shortages and the energy surplus in which payments are made are public. The launch of the comprehensive balancing market, as you mentioned, started as of June 2014. In these few months, there are various problems that we closely monitor. We are still analyzing them and taking the necessary steps to minimise and timely removal. Of course, it still takes additional time to carry out a complete and adequate analysis of the functioning of the balancing market. Undoubtedly its introduction is a step in the right direction towards liberalising the national energy market and its adequate positioning on the European internal market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u120	The line, Mr. Nedev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Petkova, thank you for your reply. The measures taken by the Ministry to improve the functioning of the balancing market are adequate and will undoubtedly work. However, I believe that this is not enough to solve the problems, and some facts need to be taken into account in an urgent manner. For example, as a result of the application of the rules so far for the participants concerned in the balancing market, significant financial risks have already emerged. In eight months, from the start of the market, producers have generated artificially increased costs in size. The costs of energy companies, which are regulated by the artificially created balance during the regulatory period that is under way, will currently exceed 50% of their planned profits. I believe that this is a misunderstanding and it must end, and it must end now! The state commission is trying to make things right. By her decision of August last year, she issued some amendments. They turned out to be ineffective. In December, as you mentioned, a decision was made on marginal prices of energy in the balancing market, which led to partial calming. However, what else needs to be decided and it must be decided in an extremely urgent manner. NEC continues to impose restrictions on producer schedules and, notice, these restrictions are technologically inoperable. In other words, experts lack any logic to impose such restrictions. The electricity distribution companies distribute, continue to distribute unwarranted balances. This increases the costs of other market participants and we believe that it is completely unfounded. For me, it is incomprehensible the powerlessness of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to deal with the obvious problem. Here, in my opinion, the Ministry should cooperate with this State Commission, which should change things more quickly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u122	Thank you, Mr Nedev. Madam Minister's hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr Nedev, I would not allow myself to commit to what the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission should do. However, I can clearly say that in the Ministry of Energy we are really very closely monitoring this process. We also see that there are problems and discrepancies that need to be addressed. I would like to assure you that what is within the competence of the Ministry of Energy will be done. We are currently working, drawing up such an analysis to see the really weakest places, so to speak, of this process, so that we can, together with colleagues from the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, take appropriate action and remove them. We realize that tension is being created in the system, that there are separate poorly thought-out opportunities in it, but what depends on the Ministry of Energy, I assure you, will be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. The next question is from Mr. Martin Dimitrov on actions taken by the Ministry of Energy to protect the state interest in a claim brought by EVN, worth more than 1 billion. 200 million. lv. and subsequent claims from the other ERPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen! In response to our inquiries, the Minister of Finance informed us that there was an arbitration case No AFB-13-17, registered by EVN against the Republic of Bulgaria before the International Arbitration for Settlement of Investment Disputes in Washington, with the claim claim being over 1.2 billion. lv. As a basis for the claim, it was pointed out that the energy distribution company claims compensation for excessive losses in connection with legislative changes and regulatory decisions in the energy sector adopted by the Bulgarian authorities. In addition, we have received information from the Ministry of Finance that the other two energy distribution companies have made claims against the State by sending requests for negotiations in order to resolve disputes voluntarily, as required by the Agreement on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments concluded. The next step in failing to reach an agreement is to bring an arbitration suit. In relation to the above, firstly, it is important to note that during Oresharski's office these issues were delicately hidden from the Bulgarian society and the Bulgarian Parliament, which is wrong and not right. Mrs. Petkova, I know that you will be very careful in your response and you will measure your every word, as well as I will in your question on this subject. However, at the very least, we must answer and you must answer the question is adequate protection in these cases by the State? And next, when is a result expected, when is a judgment expected? The whole situation is unpleasant enough and it is good to find a positive solution from the point of view of the state, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u126	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. For a response Minister Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, under the Civil Procedure Code, the Minister of Finance is a legal representative of the state in court cases and arbitration proceedings. Before the arbitration proceedings were brought by EVN, the Republic of Austria, against the Republic of Bulgaria before the International Centre for the Resolution of Investment Disputes in Washington, by Decision of 22 May 2013. The Council of Ministers entrusted the Minister of Finance with the preparation, organisation and conduct of the negotiations for voluntary settlement of the investment dispute between EVN and the Republic of Bulgaria. In accordance with the Decision of the Council of Ministers by letter of 27 May 2013, the Minister of Finance requested the Minister of Economy, Energy and Tourism to refrain from communicating with EVN and any other actions which were not priorly agreed with the Minister of Finance, authorised to prepare, organise and conduct negotiations on the voluntary settlement of the investment dispute. Both in the phase of the negotiations for the voluntary settlement of the investment dispute and after the arbitration by EVN, the Ministry of Energy, previously of the economy and energy, provided the necessary assistance to the Ministry of Finance with a view to carrying out the effective protection of the state interest in the arbitration proceedings. However, as you have mentioned, it should be borne in mind that disclosure of information in breach of the established rules can lead to legal complications in the arbitration proceedings and adverse consequences for the Republic of Bulgaria in resolving the arbitration case. Any questions concerning the substance of the dispute at the moment are extremely delicate. This delicacy arises from the fact that any action and omission and any statement by a state authority can and will be used by the parties in the dispute against the state interest. Regarding the requests of the other two electricity distribution companies, according to information from the Ministry of Finance there are such............................................................................................... They have sent to the Republic of Bulgaria, represented again by the Minister of Finance, a proposal for negotiations in order to resolve disputes voluntarily in accordance with the requirements of the contract for promotion and mutual protection of investments between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Czech Republic, and the Ministry of Finance has taken action in a timely manner to protect the position of the Bulgarian State and its interest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u128	The line, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u129	Dear Minister, I expected such a cautious, professional and very well measured response from you because it is an international arbitration case. However: when is a judgment expected and do you have any idea? That's my first supplementary question. My second supplementary question is: has any significant progress been made with regard to the voluntary procedure or out-of-court procedure for the other two companies? What I am interested in is whether there is an option for the state through negotiations to persuade these companies in the framework of a dialogue and to present arguments about the procedure to be pursued a normal situation for many countries. Then, when the procedure is out of court and there is a reasoned conversation and each party presents its claims, if agreement is reached, there is no further part. That is, such a development would be beneficial for Bulgaria. However, I would like to know what your expectations are, or should you say that this cannot be judged; when is a judgment expected by the Court of Arbitration in Washington on the judicial part of the claims?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u130	A hole, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u131	Dear Mr. Dimitrov, at present it will be difficult to commit myself to some specific date related to the finalization of this process and the final decision. As I have already mentioned, this is a delicate matter and situation, and I really call on all of us to be very cautious when we talk about this arbitration. Regarding the conduct of the negotiations for voluntary settlement of the dispute, I believe that the colleagues from the Ministry of Finance dealing with the state protection are extremely good professionals and will do everything possible to achieve the best result, the best effect for Bulgaria in this regard. I hope these negotiations end with success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u132	The next person to address his question to the Minister is the national representative Nikolay Alexandrov on the justification for the increasing price of electricity.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Minister, my question is directed to the following during the caretaker government Minister Stonov, as Minister of Economy, Energy and Tourism, made a comment that NEK is missing nearly 4 billion. lv. and that the price of electricity must be increased by a minimum of 10% additionally, taking into account the increase of 1 July 2014. Postfactum has already been divided, but this question remains about the increasing constant price of electricity. I am very aware that you will say that not you, but the SEWRC is the authority that determines the prices of electricity in Bulgaria, but I am also very aware that the SEWRC is an authority that is elected on a proposal from the Council of Ministers by the National Assembly, that is, you, as a minister responsible in particular for energy, can offer the Council of Ministers a new one. What are my concerns? They're because we all hear about some long-term contracts to buy electricity, and nothing is done. The first question that was asked to you by colleague Slavov, even in the end, I found out from my colleague that he tried to protect the investor, that his money should not be taken away. Under these long-term contracts, I think the World Bank had ruled that it was 5 billion. $400 million for Maritsa 1 and Maritsa 3 and if, according to European law and sector, "Searching', it is found that this may be a disguised state aid for these companies, I want that money to return to the state or, at best, to lower the price of electricity. It is precisely with the aim of protecting people's interests and not the investor's interests that I ask you the following question: what is our economic justification for the price of electricity to possibly jump by another 10%, as stated by your predecessor in the office? Will that stitch, shall we call it rude, the holes in NEK? Is it not more real to block these holes as long-term contracts for the purchase of electricity, bad practices in the sector, in the same way for renewable sources of electricity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u134	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u135	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Alexandrov, I will begin with the clarification, as you rightly assumed that under Bulgarian law the authority competent and responsible for pricing energy products and services is the State Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory. In accordance with art. 10, para. 2 of the Energy Act The Commission is an independent specialised body. The State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission controls the compliance of licensing activities carried out by energy companies with the terms of the licences issued. It also controls the application of its established prices. This obligation of the Commission is fixed in art. 76 of the Energy Act. According to the same article, t. The Commission controls compliance with long-term contracts and terms of interruptible service contracts, as well as their compatibility with European Union law. Based on the above, the questions you have raised concern the activities of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. In conclusion, I will remind you that according to art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2, p. 22 of the Rules of Procedure and the organization of the National Assembly is one of the permanent parliamentary committees for monitoring the activities of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. I am sure that this will be another opportunity to get answers to the questions you have asked. With regard to the second part of your question concerning when the vicious practices in energy will be stopped, I could say the following: "The energy sector's recovery is indeed a leading task for the Ministry of Energy. Since the beginning of the government's mandate, we have committed ourselves to taking very rapid and unpopular measures. They must be taken and implemented, because otherwise we risk this sector that is so important to the economy to really collapse. The current financial situation of NEK I believe that for no one I will produce news by saying that it is very difficult and currently the deficit in NEK is 3 billion. 300 million, and the current deficit for 2014 alone is 598 million. BGN, which, of course, speaks in itself of what the state of the public supplier is. The Ministry is actively working on measures to stabilise energy and create conditions for its functioning under market rules. We are currently in active negotiations with the two US power plants to renegotiate the terms of the treaties. Conversations are in the direction of reducing the price of their production. We have an understanding on the part of the owners of these plants. Expectations are that there will be an outcome on this issue within the shortest possible time. This will probably happen by the end of March, I hope then I will be able to report to you with good news. At the moment, checks are being carried out by the Agency for State Financial Inspection precisely in order to stop, as you have noted, the vicious practices in the sector.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The State Financial Inspection Agency is currently carrying out such checks at TPP Maritsa East 2, both in US power plants and in the National Electricity Company. Financial inspections are to be carried out in other major energy companies. We will analyse the results of these checks, draw relevant conclusions, and this information will serve as a basis for making the right management decisions. With regard to medium-term measures, it is crucial there to move towards the completion of the process of sustainable liberalisation of the energy market and the launch of an active energy market for electricity. I believe that this will be a very serious step forward and a very important factor in solving the problems in the sector............................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u136	Two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, you still did not answer the question: what does the price of electricity need to increase more and more? Yes, you answered formally from the SEWRC. I will refer you again to the World Bank report, made at the request of the government of 2013, published in September 2014, where it is written that the SEWRC is not a political single body. You can see that there. If a minister can go out and say the price has to go up, then there has to be one that can go out and say why it can't go up, or why it has to go up? Not constantly transferring your ball, forwarding it to the SEWRC and washing your hands. You have to understand that people out there don't want it. They want to know from tomorrow the price of electricity will rise, or tomorrow the price of electricity will fall. Similarly, if you negotiate with the American Maritzi, let us know: should people expect that the price of electricity will eventually fall from May or will we again talk about an increase in the price of electricity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u138	For a response Minister Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u139	Dear Mr. Alexandrov, you are aware that one of the changes in the Energy Act is related precisely to the status of the State Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory and, more precisely, to the choice of the commissioners in it. The change envisions the election of the members of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to be carried out directly by the Bulgarian Parliament, and I believe that this will greatly dispel all doubts related to the objectivity of the Commission, its expertise and the decisions it makes. So I hope this will largely resolve this problem and dispel any doubts about the impartiality and competence of this so important regulatory authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u140	Mr. Alexandrov's attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u141	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Petkova, approximately a hundred days ago it was that long that I was waiting for the answer to come out of this question and for approximately a hundred days we cannot get an answer, that is, the Bulgarian society cannot get an answer whether the price of electricity will rise or not. Understand that not everything is just what we talk about from this tribune. Something that's called "reality," which is out there, is not what we say from the microphones. There are extremely many people in this country who cannot cover the cost of electricity. They don't care if we put it in law here, or we don't write it down, and how many months we hang out with it. This thing must be resolved as quickly as possible, and I told you in one of the supplementary questions that since there is a minister who says that the price must be increased, there must be a minister who says that the price of electricity will not increase. And you don't do that. Somehow, we come to extremely absurd situations, especially in the sector.................................................................................. I can't be happy with this thing because we don't give people any answers about what will be done in the future. There's a four-billion coming from somewhere, there's a hole in the energy. There is a question coming from one of the parties in the ruling coalition, which once signed contracts under its own management with Maritsa 1 (Maritsa 1) and Maritsa 3 (Marica 3) and is now going out to defend the contracts that she signed, and you are going out here and explaining that you are currently negotiating with Maritsa 1 and 3) to reduce the price. That's what people see. The memory of our society is not so weak. Understand that before every winter season I am far from the thought that you do not think it [[the President signals that time has run out]] People start saving money so they can pay for their electricity. There's no normal country in the world to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u142	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. The next question is from the MP Willy Lilkov about the serious situation of the Vidachim enterprise, which is due to outstanding debts of the National Electricity Company to him. You have a chance to develop your question, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question was asked in November last year regarding the crisis situation that was created in the Vidakim JSC. It consisted of an obligation of 18 million to NEK, which was not paid to the undertaking and which was faced with a situation where it could not purchase the raw materials for its normal activity. Then I asked a question about the plans of the National Electricity Company and your Ministry in order to repay the debt, as the Vidakim is the only large enterprise in the region, but for the city of Vidin, with 600 people working in this enterprise are really many people. They were faced with the situation. I mean the management of the enterprise, to release some of the workers, some to leave on forced leave. Then I asked the question I am repeating now: what are the plans of the Ministry of Energy for the payment of this debt? In the meantime, however, as the answer to the question was delayed, I will just say a few words about the situation at the moment. At the moment, the situation is no different. The obligation of NEK is more than 17 million, part of the workers are also in forced leave and the enterprise continues for the third month to be in a severe crisis situation. The importance of this enterprise for the city of Vidin is enormous. The non-payment of NEK's obligations to the enterprise leads to the fact that it does not pay its obligations to suppliers, to the Municipality of Vidin, which is also in serious condition. I update my old question to date: what are the plans of the Ministry of Energy to pay off the debt of the National Electricity Company and how do you see the situation at the moment in this enterprise? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u144	Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u145	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Lilkov! For the period from 1 January 2014 to 13 February 2015, until today, the National Electric Company has paid the amount of 40 million to Vidahim JSC. 418 thousand. £698. As of 13 February 2015, as of today, NEK has an obligation to "Vidahim" for a purchased electricity of 12 million. 696 thousand. BGN 508. According to a letter of notification from the National Electricity Company, in fulfillment of the obligation by NEK, Vidahim is making such a request, 80% of each payment to be made to Vidahim at the will of the company Vidahim should be transferred directly to the company Rhythm 4 TB, Ltd. until the amount of 12 million is reached. 103,000. 257 BGN and the remaining 20% should be translated directly to The amount thus mentioned is 40 million. 413 thousand. £698. They also include payments of 8 million. Fifty thousand. BGN 248. in the period 19 September 2014 " 13 February 2015" by stating that 19 September 2014 is the date on which the letter was submitted to the National Electricity Company, which states that it wishes payments to it to be allocated 80% to another company, to which it has obligations and 20% to enter in Vidahim. According to the letter of notification quoted, NEK paid to Rhythm and in fact covered these obligations, the amount of 8 million mentioned above. lv. To date, NEK owes to suppliers for purchased electricity only for your information, 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes Despite its difficult financial situation, the company makes the necessary efforts, colleagues do indeed make it impossible to try to repay, of course, not in full to repay the obligations to electricity producers, but to pay at least half of the due monthly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u146	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u147	Thank you, Madam Secretary. As I understand it, payments are currently being made to Visahim and are being made at the will of the directors of the enterprise. I am far from thinking that I can give advice to the Ministry of Energy and NEC, but I would like to ask, when paying NEK's obligations to suppliers, to still bear in mind this supplier or the undertaking concerned, how important it is for the region concerned and how long it can endure to stay in this state of outstanding obligations to NEK, taking into account the situation in the Vidin region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u148	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u149	Dear Mr. Lilkov, as I have already mentioned, we are aware of the seriousness of the problem. We also realize that Vidahim is a major enterprise in the Vidin region. Indeed, the National Electric Company is taking the necessary measures and actions to keep these payments going regularly. As I have already mentioned, according to the will of Vidahim, these payments go to repay their obligation to a supplier. So the payments to the supplier for repayment of the debts of Vidahim are going on a regular basis by NEK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u150	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Next is a question by the National Representative Kiril Tsochev on strategies for energy development and energy efficiency. Here you are, Mr. Tsochev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u151	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! In September 2013, the 40th National Assembly examined a report on the state of energy and adopted a decision requiring the Ministry of Economy and Energy to develop a detailed analysis of the energy sector and prepare projects for a new energy strategy and National Energy Efficiency Strategy. In implementation of the first part of the decision of the National Assembly, the Ministry of Economy and Energy presented on 8 January 2014. A report on the state of energy of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2012-2013. At the end of 2013 as an element of the future National Energy Strategy, short-term measures were prepared for the rescue of the sector, entitled the Action Plan for Energy Stabilisation The Energy Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria was subsequently developed by 2030 with a view to 2050, as a document responsible for the new priorities of European energy policy and national interest and to reflect the vision for sustainable development of the sector. The project was the basis for a broad public and political discussion on the long-term development of the energy of the Republic of Bulgaria. In the government's report with Prime Minister Plamen Oresharski for the first year of government six months ago is written, I quote: The energy strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria has been developed by 2030 and its public discussion is forthcoming. The purpose of the document is to create a permanent framework for carrying out an energy security policy, creating conditions for the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy. Nevertheless, the Energy Strategy has not yet been presented for public consultation. Such a strategy has not been discussed with the main political forces, although validating long-term energy policies requires consensus. My question to you, Madam Minister, is: is there a National Energy Efficiency Strategy prepared under the National Assembly Decision of 4 September 2013? Is there also the reason why the Energy Strategy and possibly the Energy Efficiency Strategy are not published for public discussion? In this regard, do you intend to take measures for more transparency and publicity in decision-making in the energy sector?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u152	Thank you, Mr. Tsochev. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u153	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsochev, as you rightly mentioned, there is indeed such an energy strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria until 2030, with a view to 2050. It is prepared by the award of external experts, is not within the framework of the then Ministry of Economy and Energy. According to the information available to me, after the transmission of the draft strategy in question to the Ministry, the latter was not provided for an opinion in the specialized administration of the then Ministry of Economy and Energy and its publication was not entrusted to the public. No environmental assessment has also been awarded in order to comply with the requirements of art. 81 of the Environmental Protection Act. One of the key objectives of the Programme of the Government for the Sustainable Development of the Republic of Bulgaria in the period 2014-2018 is the adoption of the Energy Strategy by 2030, with a view to 2050. This is our priority. I assure you that when developing this Strategy, we will seek the active position and participation of all stakeholders. Of course, we will also refer to and use the material that the Ministry of Energy currently has, and we will borrow all the good ideas and analyzes made in it. I want to assure you that no side of this process will be isolated in practice. However, with regard to the time limits in which this will happen, it is important to take into account that the drafting of the new Energy Strategy should also be in line with the upcoming changes in the European Energy Policy and, in particular, with the objectives that will result from the new package, "Climate............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Discussions on this topic continue at the moment. It is good, in fact, to wait and see what our European partners' policy will be in terms of..Climate.............. and then to finally develop our Energy Strategy which will be fully in line with European policy. Regarding the National Energy Efficiency Strategy, as you know, this is a strategic document that will be developed based on the objectives and priorities of the country's Energy Strategy. At the same time, this important document for our country must reflect European policy in this area and, more precisely, the requirements of Directive 27/2012 of the European Union on energy efficiency and the objectives adopted by the European Union on 24 October 2014 under the "Climate' package by 2030, which are important to outline a stable long-term vision for energy development and the construction of a competitive low-carbon economy. In conclusion, Mr. Tsochev, I would like to thank you for your question. The main priority of the Ministry of Energy in the implementation of the energy policy of the country is the identification of medium and long-term priorities in the development of energy, including achieving a harmonised link between the energy policy of the Republic of Bulgaria and that of the European Union. In this regard, as I have already said, one of the priorities of the government is precisely the development of an energy strategy and the adoption of a National Energy Efficiency Strategy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u154	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Tsochev, you have the opportunity to ask up to two supplementary questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. I'm satisfied. I just want to make one line. What you said means once again waiting for directives from the European Commission and after developing updated energy and climate-related programmes, they will be reflected in the new strategy. In this project, which you have and is owned by the Ministry of Energy, we have complied with all European directives. The strategy is harmonised with the European directives and in practice fully complies with the requirements of the Third Liberalisation Package and with all other requirements. This project that you have, although not perfect, is a basis for dialogue. My request is to release this project for discussion, including for public discussion, so that time can be bought, not to wait. Without a strategy Bulgaria will not be able to develop, especially in the energy sector. As part of the Energy Strategy, you said two questions ago that you were preparing to bring in an effective energy exchange. My supplementary question is: what specific steps are you planning? In what time will an energy exchange in the country be activated, but a real energy exchange? My second question is: what measures are you taking to introduce a real balancing market? You answered Mr Nedev's question, but I was not satisfied, so I want to hear from you the measures and when exactly the balancing market will function in normal frames.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u156	Thank you, Mr. Tsochev. Madam Minister, please come in and answer the additional questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Tsochev, as I have already mentioned, the document that the Ministry of Energy has is a really good document. We will use all the analyses, all the main aspects that he has identified with regard to the country's energy strategy. As I have already mentioned, all parties involved in this process will be engaged. We will perhaps make a joint task force to deal with the update of this Strategy, complete or perfect it. Regarding the need to wait for the European Commission's decision on new climate and energy trends, I said that this is important in order to be in line with the European Commission's latest requirements. Otherwise, everything placed as a framework in the Strategy will undoubtedly be used. With regard to your second question, when will there be a real energy exchange, I would like to assure you that we are working very actively on creating an energy struggle. The colleagues from the Bulgarian Energy Holding have put their efforts to make the energy exchange happen as quickly as possible. We believe that this is the way for the real liberalisation of the market and for exiting from the crisis situation, to a large extent this will resolve, this will be the outcome of this situation. A license was granted by the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for the Energy Exchange at the end of December. This is the necessary and mandatory condition for it to start. I think that's a step forward. We are currently working on the trading platform of the energy exchange. There's been a development of the process. I very much hope that by the end of the year or perhaps a little earlier we will have an active energy exchange. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u158	Thank you. Mr. Tsochev, you have the opportunity to treat yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u159	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. I hope we actually have a normal energy exchange by the end of the year. With this we will solve many of the problems in energy, I would also say many answers to the previous questions that have been asked by my fellow Members. You didn't answer me about the balancing market because you answered Mr Nedev. But, please, pay attention to the misguided Methodology for setting the prices of balancing energy and paradoxes, not to say criminal acts that are being carried out with it. NEK is designated as a public supplier, NEK is the coordinator of a special balancing group and a balancing energy supplier. He cross-subsidized the price gap from a public supplier through a coordinator of balancing energy, and as a supplier of balancing energy through Pavetc "Chaira" and hydropower, which belong to the National Electricity Company, it sets its own prices according to this methodology, which are more than 1000 BGN. at a megawatt/hour at a base price of about BGN 70. of state-owned enterprises "Maritsa East 2" and NPP "Kozloduy." The paradox is that in the night hours reported officially, the shortage of electricity is at a price of BGN 3024. at megawatt/hour. This is taken from the dispatch logs of dispatch to the Ministry of Energy, to the energy system operator. Criminally, since at night hours dispatchers are wondering how to limit generating capacities and pay 3024 leva. 50 times more expensive energy than basic energy to balance electricity shortages. And all of this applies to the power generators. Include this methodology to be changed immediately. There are a lot of messed-up things about trade rules in general. Due to the frequent change of the leaders of the energy system operator, of the National Electricity Company and of the SEWRC, there is no stick in their work and these methodologies and documents that come out of them are quite distorted and I would say quite corrupted. Get involved, because this is the only way for energy to be fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u160	Thank you, Mr. Tsochev. We continue with a question from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev about the consequences of the sale by NEK without tender and competition quantities of electricity on the free market. Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! According to my information, between September and November 2014, NEK's previous management entered into annual contracts for 2015 and sold without public tenders and competitions above 600 megawatt/hours of electricity to free market participants. In order to make it more clear to viewers and listeners, the total amount of these contracts amounts to about 250 million. lv. on an annual basis. The quantities were sold at 70 BGN. megawatt hours for peak profile electricity, which is below the prices achieved at the NPP auctions of the NPP "Kozloduy" for base energy, which is cheaper than the demand, and far below the prices achieved at the auctions of the Maritsa East 2 "Kozloduy" for base energy with and without deviations. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following questions: Are there really cases of electricity sold in September 2014 by NEK EAD on a monthly or annual basis without auctions and competitions? By what criteria are buyers and prices determined, what are the total quantities and the average price achieved? How are these prices relevant to the bid prices achieved by other producers, such as the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" and "Maritsa East 2"? For information at the auction of Maritsa East 2 and the highest achieved price for base energy is BGN 75,26 and base energy with the right to deviation. 80,54 BGN. at megawatt/hour. Has the Ministry of Energy performed an analysis of the damage to NEK EAD due to possible reduced prices of the energy sold? How much are these possible damages for the period of contracts concluded? And what measures has the Ministry of Energy taken to protect the public interest and the interests of NEK with regard to these contracts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u162	Thank you. For your answer please come in, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u163	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kadiev, as regards your first question, are there actually cases of electricity sold in September 2014 by NEK on a monthly or annual basis without auctions and competitions? By what criteria are buyers and prices determined? What are the total quantities and the average price achieved? Between September and November 2014, NEK negotiated electricity sales for the first and second half of 2015. Sales were carried out as a result of a commercial interest in the order of requests received by electricity traders through direct negotiation. All agreed sales are subject to a mandatory advance payment, and in some of them the advance payment concerns the entire delivery period. The prices of the quantities agreed shall not be distinguished from the buyers according to the profile and the time of delivery. The agreed quantities amount to 2 million 361 thousand 935 megawatt/hour for the whole of 2015, with eight transactions being concluded for this purpose. I can only say that the specific prices are protected by a confidentiality clause in commercial contracts, which is why I cannot disclose them at this time. With regard to your second question, how are these prices relevant to the prices achieved by the auctions of other producers of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" and "Maritsa East 2"? For information you explain the price of the auction of Maritsa East 2 What I can answer you is the following: nuclear power plant "Kozloduy", TPP "Maritsa East 2" and the National Electricity Company are independent legal entities with a different combination of assets and a characteristic kind of production profile. NEK EAD realizes sales according to its own specific portfolio, the individual cost of electricity produced and the rhythm of the financial receipts with a view to their predictability. The prices achieved for the tendering procedures carried out by electricity producers shall not be made public. In order to compare the quoted prices, both the delivery period and the payment terms provided for in the sales agreements should be taken into account. With regard to your third question, has the Ministry of Energy performed an analysis of the damage done to NEK due to possible reduced prices of energy sold and how much are they for the period of contracts concluded? I can inform you that the Ministry of Energy requires information from the National Electricity Company about the quantities of electricity submitted and the possible negative consequences for the company. Such information was provided. Its results are worrying, with a view to which we promptly sent all these data to the Prosecutor's Office for jurisdiction and the relevant pre-trial investigations are currently being carried out. With regard to your fourth question, what measures does the Ministry of Energy take to protect the public interest and the interests of NEK with regard to these contracts? Dear Mr. Kadiev, we all know that the state in which the public supplier is currently present is difficult. The reasons are complex, there is no stability and stability for the financial proceeds from the unrecognized current costs of purchasing electricity from producers for this regulatory period, as well as for previous periods in the regulatory selling price of electricity from NEK for final suppliers; and, on the other hand, from the introduced new pricing model of 1 August 2013 and the amendment of the Energy Act of 5 July 2013. However, the good news is that new rules are being developed in the National Electricity Company...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u164	Madam Minister, as the response time is up, you may further develop your response in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u165	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u166	For a line, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u167	Dear Minister, in one sentence, I am not pleased with the answer. We're colleagues from the Ministry of Finance and we're used to dealing with numbers. I heard a single number, and I expected a lot more from you. In a sense, I think that you are trying to tell the Bulgarian society what happened, and it is simple enough. Colleagues, energy has been sold without any auction, without any competition under the order of inquiry to any unknown traders. But why did some ask, and others didn't ask is unclear. At some prices that are also not clear and which are well below the market. This energy is at a total amount, Mrs. Petkova said about 2 million. Three hundred thousand. megawatts, 70. 75 levs each, and we get to that 250 million. That's what I'm talking about. By my count, if the energy sold is 10% below the market price, as I know, then the loss for NEK is 25 30 million. lv. On a preliminary request Mrs. Petkova said that NEK owes 1 billion to suppliers of energy. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. Here's one of the reasons for the hole in NEK. So NEK owes someone who supplied him energy, and at the same time sells that energy at 10% below the market price! The answer I got, what was it? Well, the results we got were disturbing, and we gave them to the D.A. I don't want you to give them to the D.A. and to be disturbing. I want you to stop these deliveries. Call this foreman, ask them why these contracts were signed. Call the minister of the service, whose time these contracts were signed, ask him where he slept at that time. Try to renegotiate prices if you have no way to stop them, although I am convinced that in all NEK contracts there is a clause with which delivery can be stopped! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I've seen contracts like this before. Absolutely all contracts have such a clause! If there is no such clause in these contracts, it is another proof that NEK's previous leadership actually worked for the interests of these traders, not for the interests of society. It's simple and clear. 30 million. lv. They're gone. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u168	Thank you. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u169	Dear Mr. Kadiev, yes, we are colleagues from the Ministry of Finance and as people who work with accurate figures and data, we are used when we say something, to be supported by specific figures. We talked with NEK's previous leadership to clarify in fact why it has come to this, in fact why all the energy for 2015 has been sold and paid in advance. The answer was that the rules that act allow and allow such an opportunity. It really turned out that way. That is why we are currently developing new rules that will absolutely not allow such precedents, an opportunity to have negative consequences for NEK. This may be the good news in this case "We are working on creating and creating new rules for the sale of electricity, which will exclude such an opportunity. I believe that this will be a guarantee that from now on no such action will be taken. Or if they are taken, it will be an undeniable violation of the rules, because at present the rules allow such an option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u170	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Let's move on to our next question. It is asked by the National Representative Borislav Iglev about the gas connection Bulgaria. Here you are, Mr. Iglev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u171	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! About the gas interconnection Bulgaria "Greece." Due to Bulgaria's gas dependence on Russia or the lack of diversification of gas sources for our country and the huge need for interconnections, I am interested: at what stage is the construction of the pipeline between Bulgaria and Greece? Will the deadline be met due to the failure of the deadline for the construction of the gas interconnections between Bulgaria and Romania, as well as Bulgaria, Turkey? Has the planned compressor station been built and has the route and the sites been approved for both sides? According to the analysis of the state of energy from 2013, an increase in the technical capacity of the pipeline to 5 billion is possible. Cubic. Exactly what will be the 3 billion demand. Or 5 billion. Cubic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u172	Thank you, Mr. Iglev. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u173	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Iglev, thank you for the current question about the realization of the extremely important gas interconnection Greece, Bulgaria, which will provide in an indisputable way diversification of gas supplies not only for Bulgaria, but also for the region of Southeastern and Central Europe, as a whole, for the European community. The project, related to the construction of the interconnector Greece, Bulgaria has accepted and entered into force EIA in Bulgaria and Greece. After studies and concerted studies in both countries, this process lasted two years. On Bulgarian territory for the route of the pipeline in the districts of Stara Zagora and Haskovo there is adopted and entered into force a detailed planning plan. The final activities of the detailed development plan for Kardzhali district are finalized, where limited displacements are made for sections of about 3 km. We hope that by March we will have the PUP in force for the entire route and in Kardzhali district. The technical project has been drawn up, a process of coordination under national legislation is under way. What needs to be done. The shareholders must increase the company's capital in a short time and start procedures to establish property rights. After these procedures have been completed, the necessary documents should be submitted to obtain a construction permit for the Bulgarian territory. We expect the shareholders of the joint company to make a final investment decision to build this project by the end of May 2015, with the Greek Energy Minister agreeing to do so, as I have already mentioned, by the end of May 2015. This will allow the construction phase of the interconnector to begin in 2016. The facility is planned to become operational in the first quarter of 2019. In terms of capacity. The initial technical capacity for the transport of natural gas is up to 3 billion. cubic meters per year. In the event of a market need in the future, the possibility of increasing capacity to 5 billion has been put in place. cubic meters per year by building a compressor station. Taking into account the latest development of the geopolitical situation and the geostrategic importance of the interconnector with Greece, the government took active action to speed up its implementation. At the meetings held with the leadership of the European Commission and some member states, we have firmly raised the question of providing a significant additional grant funding for the construction of the interconnector Greece, Bulgaria by the European Union, for which we have come to understand and approve by our European partners. The construction of the interconnector Greece.. Bulgaria received full support from our European partners as well. At the same time, we had urgent conversations. Yesterday, by the way, it may be important to inform you, and I met with the new Minister of Energy of Greece, Mr. Lafazanis, in Baku. The aim of our meeting was to discuss precisely the development of the project "Interconnector link Greece" Bulgaria. Greek counterpart Lafazanis assured me that for them this project remains and it will be a priority. Perhaps in the second half of March we will have a meeting in order to see how far we have come with regard to the implementation of the Road map of this project, because we have also developed such a roadmap. We provided it to the joint stockholders of the Bulgarian Energy Holding in the joint stock company - our joint stockholders from Poseidon and so that they can have it and work in one direction, to keep the time schedule that we have set. This project is very important. It is also included in projects of common interest. At the meeting on 9 February, which took place in Sofia, with the high-level group, with representatives of the European Commission, this project is included in the 14 priority projects of the Commission, which will be built within accelerated deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u174	Thank you. Mr. Iglev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response. Despite the gas contract, I will remind you of the 2009 duck situation when, despite the contract with Russia, the gas stopped. If we wake up one morning without gas in the pipes, our country will again be most hurt by everyone else because at this point we have no alternative. Since you claim that the country's energy independence is the priority of today's government, I also agree, I think that all the Members in this House, since we are implementing European laws, why do we have no alternative to gas supplies? What's the reason? I'll give you an example: in a small country like Lithuania, gas consumption is as much as our country. Greece is working on being independent. Most likely, gas extraction will soon begin from the island of Cyprus and they are building a liquefied gas terminal to Alexandroupolis. Turkey also has a liquefied gas terminal, and the country's location on the geographical map enables it to have alternative supplies from its neighbouring countries -- Azerbaijan, Iraq, Iran. And our northern neighbour Romania recently said it wants to be a gas exporter. Only our country takes blows at the expense of the people. The interim agreement that Russia and Ukraine concluded on gas expires in March. March is very close. Gas supplies were not discussed at the Minsk talks. Gas is important for the existence of our economy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u176	Thank you, Mr. Iglev. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Iglev, in order not to take Bulgaria's hits, as you expressed yourself related to gas supplies, it is necessary really to have diversification. This diversification must be both on the east and on the routes. In order for this thing to happen, there is a need to build exactly this interconnector Greece Bulgaria. It is extremely important because it will provide both diversification of the source and diversification of the route. Unfortunately, no action has been taken on this project in the last year and a half. It's a fact. Within two months, we have taken all possible action so as to speed up the development of this project, including in the 2015 budget, the government confirmed a state guarantee of 80 million. EUR for this project, which I think is a very serious step forward and a guarantee that we really have absolutely serious intentions and look very responsible for this process. That is why I believe that the Bulgarian government has taken the necessary action. We will do whatever is necessary to speed up the process. But again, he's been abandoned for the past year and a half, and there's no progress on him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u178	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is from the MP Vasil Antonov on the prospects for the successful completion of the project for the construction of NPP. Here you go, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u179	Dear Minister, as all my fellow Members have found out, the essence of my question is the completion and prospects for the completion of the Atomic Power Plant. Atomic power plant "Belene" began in 1981 with a decision of the Council of Ministers and developed very violently in the first ten years and quite so, fragmented and inconsistently in the next period, and at times we have very inadequate solutions in this direction. This is the Decision No 250 of 28 March 2012 of the previous cabinet Borisov, which stopped the implementation of the Atomic Power Plant. It was at that time that black humor appeared with regard to the Central that Bulgaria was the first country that did not produce nuclear reactors, but sold them. Reference: this is the first atomic reactor, which was paid by the Bulgarian state and respectively as a result of the braking, it was not installed on the site and was subsequently sold at quite low prices, within about 15-20% of the real value. Today, this reactor produces electricity and is installed in the submersible. Today, after this decision, which I quote, the country is definitely no longer doing anything. This is also confirmed by the new strategy, the new management program of the cabinet Borisov 2, and if during the first management period there was talk of institutional support for the NPP of Belene, then today the program with which I have carefully introduced myself, within 11 pages there is no mention of any prospect of completion of the Central Belene. There are many other data here that I could provide, but we are getting to my final question: what are the possibilities for successful completion of the Atomic Power Plant? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u180	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u181	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, by Decision No 260 of 8 April 2005, the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria decided to build a nuclear plant on the site with the maximum installed electricity capacity of 2000 megawatts. Following a procedure under the Public Procurement Act, an Agreement was signed on 29 November 2006 on the construction of the nuclear power plant "Belene" between the National Electricity Company and the "Atomstroyexport" which aims to determine the general understanding of the parties on the process of reaching an agreement and signing a contract of engineering, supply and construction, and to assign to the "Atomstroyexport" the implementation of certain parts of the work under the contract. Decision No 250 of 29 March 2012 of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria repealed Decision No 259 of the Council of Ministers of 2005 on the designation of a power plant at a site of nuclear power plant of "Belene" as a site of national importance and Decision No 260 of the Council of Ministers of 2005 on the construction of a nuclear plant at a site of "Belene." On 27 January 2013, a national referendum was held in which 1 million votes. 405 thousand. 463 Bulgarian citizens representing 20.22 per cent of the citizens with electoral rights. There is a hypothesis of art. 23, para. 3 of the Law on the direct participation of citizens in the state power and local self-government, namely the proposal under the referendum, is submitted to the National Assembly for a decision. By Decision of 27 February 2013 on the national referendum held on 27 January 2013, the National Assembly supported the government's decision to suspend the project for the construction of a new nuclear power plant at the site of Belene. The Ministry of Energy, respectively the National Electric Company, strictly implement the current Decision No 250 of 29 March 2012 of the Council of Ministers and Decision of 29 March 2012 of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria to terminate the construction of a nuclear power plant on the site of Belene. It is important, dear Mr. Antonov, to note also that the existence of the two pending international arbitration proceedings with significant material interest formed on the occasion of the construction of the nuclear power plant "Belene" and the possible impact on them in expressing a position for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On numerous occasions, the procedural representatives of the National Electricity Company in the arbitration proceedings with Atomstroyexports have exposed and maintained the position that expressing opinions in the course of the case could affect and negatively affect the National Electricity Company. To the same extent this is true with regard to the case of "Warley parsons service association" EAD. I therefore ask that, when we talk about the NPP project, we also take into account this fact that very soon arbitrage is coming and perhaps it is better to be more cautious when we have a position on this topic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u182	Thank you. For a line, Mr. Antonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u183	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! Of course I'm not satisfied with the answer, Madam Minister. Moreover, with this position of waiting, I believe that there is no way we can reach a good solution. True, arbitration goes both with regard to the state and with regard to the company. That is precisely why I did not mention it. However, when we talk about Atomic Power Plant, Belene, there are several postulates that we need to be aware of. First, so far, a very serious and large investment has been made. The second thing for a long time shows a discrepancy, especially in the continuity of individual governments. We are under the impression that in this regard what is happening today is no different. I also take occasion from the management program, where we are talking about the efficiency of nuclear energy, about an increase of 3 or 4% in power block V and VI, but at the same time we are ignoring everything that has been done so far. Let us not forget, and once again from this tribune I want to share that we currently have several opportunities to continue the project, the second option is to propose it as a private one, or to continue to lower ourselves, but in our domesticity as an auditor, you know that when a minister, and the energy minister, does not perform its functions and gives no perspective to the most expensive project that has been done so far, then, of course, the responsibilities will be personal to this minister and to this government. And the last thing I'm finishing with is that to date, we need to know that the construction permit for the plant has expired, which is an assessment that nothing is being done on this issue by the new cabinet. And he's no longer a new person, and the time for learning about matter is over. We rely very much and will come back to this question again, because what has been done so far is nothing and hiding behind other arguments is not consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u184	Thank you. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u185	Dear Mr. Antonov, I would like to share the following. In our government's management programme, the renewal of the construction activities of the NPP project "Belene" does not exist as such. But I, as far as I have a memory, in the previous government's management program, Mr. Oresharski, was one of the main and leading priorities. In any case, for a year and a half you did not find it necessary, or did not consider it necessary to restart the project. That's true, actually. With regard to my previous existence as an auditor, I have direct impressions and observations regarding how things happened and how the process of building the nuclear power plant was going, and I can really tell you that there I was fracked by the things I saw. What you mentioned about the trade in nuclear reactors, yes, it really is. In November 2007, the Bulgarian side sold its reactor to the Russian side, which had previously paid at a higher price and then sold it for 77 million. [[Reply by MP Vasil Antonov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u186	Please, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u187	I don't know what you mean, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u188	Continue the duplicate and do not engage in conversations with the MPs from the place.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u189	I just wanted to say that, in fact, the NPP is not a priority of our programme. It was a priority of Mr. Oresharski's cabinet management program, but it never happened anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u190	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We move on to a question raised by the National Representative Slavcho Atanasov regarding the physical condition of the III and IV Block (VER 420) of the NPP of Kozloduy. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u191	Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, in connection with the decommissioning of large power plants, such as the thermal power plant "Varna" - possibly the "Maritsa 3" - the "TPP" - Ruse, probably the blocks of Bobov dol and others and put them in their place permanently in the energy balance of the country of the expensive power plants "Mi 1" and "Mi 3" - as well as the RES, please answer the following questions: First, what was the technical condition of the 3rd and 4th block (VER 420) of the nuclear power plant Secondly, at the time of their shutdown, did the two reactors have a technical ability to operate, were they in operation? Thirdly, is it true that the necessary modernisation activities were carried out on both reactors before they were shut down and at what cost? Fourth, for the restoration of the two reactors, if necessary, what technological and purely technical time would it take to restart them? Fifth, how much would the possible disposal cost to the two reactors? Sixth, how much would their possible commission cost? I look forward to your competent answer within the limits of the questions asked, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u192	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u193	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Atanasov! At the time of suspension, blocks III and IV met the safety requirements and were in operation. For the period 1991 to 2005, three modernisation programmes of 311 million were implemented. The dollar. By the end of 2005, further projects worth 14,3 million were implemented for improvement of the safety of the III and IV block for compliance with the conditions of long-term operating licences issued by the Nuclear Regulatory Agency. The dollar. By decision of the government in the implementation of the commitments made by the Republic of Bulgaria in the Treaty of Accession to the European Union III and IV block of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" shall be excluded from the electricity system on 31 December 2006. It must be taken into account that the process for decommissioning the suspended nuclear units III and IV of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" is irreversible because the suspension of blocks III and IV and their subsequent decommissioning is a condition laid down in art. 30 of the Protocol on the conditions and arrangements for the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union, promulgated in the Official Journal of the European Union, No. 97, 2007 As you know, the commitment was made as early as December 1995 when the Republic of Bulgaria applied for EU membership. At present, the decommissioning programme of the site "Kozloduy" has an advanced stage of implementation. It should be taken into account that blocks III and IV of the nuclear power plant By decision of the Council of Ministers of December 2012 blocks III and IV of the NPP On 25 February 2013, the Chair of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency issued operating licences for the 3rd and IVth block of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" as radioactive waste management facilities. According to the decommissioning plan provided by the Nuclear Regulatory Agency, the necessary financial resources providing for the decommissioning activities of blocks I to IV of the NPP The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 106 million. Nine hundred and eighty-seven thousand. The energy strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2020 provides for the preservation of the share of electricity produced by nuclear power by extending the lifetime of the existing nuclear units and possible construction of new nuclear power. The restart of the units III and IV of the NPP is not foreseen. It should be noted that the design period of operation of block III expired in 2010 and of block IV in 2012. A procedure for issuing new operating licences which violates the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Union, possibly if it were to proceed to such an impact, would be a rude violation of the Treaty, would be linked to a new investigation of the blocks, implementation of a modernisation programme that would take at least six years and an unknown assessment of modernisation costs. On the basis of the above, I would like to inform you that, as Minister of Energy and a representative of the Bulgarian Government responsible for implementing and complying with European legislation, I do not believe that there is a legal basis for the termination of the implementation of the programme for decommissioning the blocks III and IV of the nuclear power plant Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u194	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u195	Mr. Chairman! Madam Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response. I wanted the Bulgarian people to hear from you as a minister that the III and IV block were completely healthy and fit out of service. I'd rather not ask you a question, I'll make a statement. We will be the first country in the world to shut down a nuclear power plant. There is no such case so far, so we will still pioneer in the world in this regard. I would just like to remind Bulgarian viewers and listeners that other countries, such as the Czech Republic, like the Baltic States, have preserved their nuclear power plants without preventing them from entering the European Union. As we transfer the ball to your government, what our government has done and what has ended, the truth is that the closing of the V and VI block is imminent. This is the fate of an irresponsible policy of a number of Bulgarian governments regarding Bulgarian energy. From an energy centre in the Balkans, we are becoming a sweet consumer, because the power plant of the European Union in Romania with French and Canadian capital works beautifully, and the two Turkish power plants that are currently being built by Russia in Turkey will also be a customer in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u196	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u197	Mr. Atanasov, I would like to add this. With regard to the V and VI block of the NPP, you know that the priority of our government is to extend the lives of these two blocks. In the previous answer to Mr. Dimitrov's question, I had the opportunity to clarify that this process is going through two stages. One stage has already been finalised and activities are now being carried out from the second stage in the extension of the life of the V and VI block of the NPP. I believe that there are no grounds for concern about the closure of these two blocks. On the contrary, their lives will be extended and we are doing everything we can to make this happen within the relevant deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u198	Thank you. Question from the National Representative Velizar Enchev on the termination of the South Stream Project from Russia and the financial consequences for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u199	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! At the end of last year, Russian President Vladimir Putin announced twice in Ankara and Moscow that Russia was ending the South Stream Project and on 1 December the Russian President said that the Russian side would build a bridge and a pipeline to Turkey with the same crossing power of 63 billion cubic metres of gas, as well as a gas hub at the Greek-Turkish border. In this regard, he advised Bulgaria to ask for compensation from the European Union for the failed project. Immediately afterwards, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov declared that Bulgaria will issue all the permits for the construction of South Stream and made it clear that if it is built, it should be under European rules. The Prime Minister also proposed to build a distribution centre near Varna where the pipe from the sea side of the pipeline should come out. As prime minister, he presented this idea to the European Council in Brussels. Madam Minister, given the Russian President's claim that we will lose 400 million. Euros from the suspension of the project, as well as vice versa, the overly optimistic position of Prime Minister Borisov, I would like you to answer the following questions: what is the technological justification of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov's idea to build a gas distribution centre near Varna and from where? And how will gas supplies come to our sea capital when the new route of South Stream to Turkey excludes the Bulgarian Black Sea coast? This has been repeatedly claimed by both the President of the Russian Federation and the Minister of Energy of the Russian Federation and by the Russian Prime Minister Medvedev. Does the Bulgarian country, Madam Minister, continue to insist on the construction of the South Stream after the Russian state in the face of its Head of State gives up the Project? What are the investments made by Bulgaria from the intergovernmental contracts for South Stream, signed after 2008? Finally, an important question, Mrs. Minister, did you receive a formal notification from the Russian side to terminate the project? If you've received, what does this document say? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u200	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. For a response Minister Petkova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u201	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, as you said, on 1 December 2014 during a state visit to the Republic of Turkey, Russian President Vladimir Putin announced that Russia is giving up the construction of the South Stream pipeline. According to information from the media, these intentions of the Russian side were repeated by both the Minister of Energy of the Russian Federation Mr. Novak and the Chairman of the Managing Committee of Mr. Miller. Despite the statements in question, at the moment the Bulgarian Energy Holding, respectively the Bulgarian side, the joint company, has not received an official notification from the other shareholder For this reason the Bulgarian side is unable to comment on questions concerning the future of the project, because given the lack of official position by the Russian shareholder such intentions would be hypothetical and based on assumptions. The Bulgarian government made an official proposal from the European Commission for the creation of a gas hub. The hub could become a common distribution centre for the member states in the region: Bulgaria, Greece, Romania, Hungary, Croatia, Slovenia and through them to the member states of Central and Western Europe, as well as for the countries of the energy community: Serbia, Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and others. A huge advantage is the well developed Bulgarian transmission infrastructure and the building interconnectors with neighbouring countries. We stand by the provisions of the third energy package and believe that such a proposal meets all requirements for market liberalisation. The proposed hub could rely on Russian gas from the South Stream and on Bulgarian natural gas from potential deposits in the Black Sea. The hub could also be powered by the interconnectors with Greece and Turkey with volumes from the Caspian, Eastern-Mediterranean region, as well as from the Greek and Turkish Ell and Gs. In addition, we could also supply gas through the interconnector with Romania from the expected significant natural gas extraction from the Romanian Black Sea shelf. To expand and build the necessary gas infrastructure on this hub, we will, of course, rely on the support and financial assistance of the European Union. Bulgaria's strategic geographical position can be used as an asset not only for our country, but also for all European partners - both in the European Union and in the region. By building such a hub, we could secure the necessary amounts of gas at competitive market prices. I believe that such a project can be implemented as a priority along with the interconnector links and be in line with the Juncker Policy and the formation of a European Energy Union, contributing to improving the security of supply and diversification of sources and routes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u202	Thank you, Madam Secretary. For a replica, the People's Representative Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u203	Madam Minister, I'm amazed! You didn't mention a word about the most important thing, that the South Stream is already called the Turkish Stream. And completely understandable! The guilty conscience of this government does not allow you to acknowledge an obvious truth that the whole world knows. On this occasion, I would like to make the following statement. This South Stream has already had a different name, as I said, Mrs. "Turkish Stream." Not in the Bulgarian, but in the Turkish treasury will be the money from the transit fees. Not Bulgaria, but Turkey will become an energy crossroads between the East and the West, as both Iraqi oil and natural gas from the Caspian Sea will pass through it. I add nuclear energy as soon as Mr. Slavcho Atanasov spoke very well on this issue, as it is in the mode of desiccating functions due to the expiry of the period of the V and VI block of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" but mostly because of the failure of the nuclear power plant "Belene". In time, Madam Minister, we will buy from Turkey not only gas, but electricity. So we're still dependent on energy from our southern neighbor. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the total politicisation of a supranational economic project, such as the South Stream, will deprive Bulgaria of large investments in favour of the Republic of Turkey. This, Madam Minister, is not only an energy but also a geopolitical failure of our country, especially your government. I am using the case in connection with the previous on the left-hand side, the BSP gentleman, who expressed his opinion and you accused him of expressing an opinion in the case........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u204	Thank you. Order your coat, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u205	Dear Mr. Enchev, since we cannot clearly say what is the position of our co-Participant, as there is no official document. You understand that when it comes to trade relations between two joint shareholders, there is no way to invoke information from the press or from the media. There must be documents to demonstrate clearly what the will of a shareholder unit is. At present, such an official document in the Bulgarian Energy Holding has not been signed. This means that we have no information as to what the position of the South Stream Project is in reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u206	Thank you, Madam Secretary. With this, the questions provided in today's parliamentary control for Minister Petkova are exhausted. Thank you for your participation. We move on to answers to current questions by Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The first question is from the MP Lyubomir Vladimirov about the deadlines for building a high-speed road Ruse. Here you go, Mr. Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u207	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The deadline for building a high-speed road Ruse In 2012, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works announced that the design of a four-band high-speed road has started from the town of Ruse to Veliko Tarnovo. The Bulgarian citizens were informed that the announcement of a contract for choice of contractor was published and the contracting entity is the Road Infrastructure Agency. In the intention of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the new high-speed four-band road that will connect Ruse and Veliko Tarnovo will not fully duplicate the current route. The idea is around Veliko Tarnovo to cross the routes of the new highway "Hemus" and the main road that will connect the two cities. At that time, the stated intentions show that one route will cross directly the old capital, while the other one will bypass it. Last but not least, I would like to point out to you that in the present time the road Ruse is saturated with very severe accidents. In 2013 alone, 183 traffic accidents occurred with eight killed and 30 injured. According to the latest data on the Ruse route, there have been 1631 accidents, in which 105 people have died and 452 have been injured. And in the last few weeks, there have been dead people on this stretch. In this regard, I would like to be answered: at this time, at this date, at what stage is the project of MRDPD for building a high-speed road Ruse, Veliko Tarnovo, or highway?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u208	Thank you. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vladimirov, it is an undisputed fact that the direction Veliko Tarnovo is an extremely important direction and transport corridor. Unfortunately, the facts and statistics of recent years show that there are also numerous catastrophes, many lost lives in this direction. As early as 2012, as you rightly pointed out, we planned and prepared, developed a pre-investment survey for this route to see what highway gauge on the speed path to be proposed. This section was part of the overall funding section and the negotiations we had with Qatar at the time for the Ruse investment as a direction of Svilengrad, part of this section was the Ruse section of Tarnovo. Since 2013, 2014 unfortunately, not much has been done on this project. What I can confirm to date, as a priority of this government and the Road Agency, are the following facts. First, for this section in comparison to the preliminary study, traffic is large enough to justify not being a speedy road, but to be a direct motorway. So from now on, we will work on designing and searching for financing for a motorway section, a motorway gauge, and the length of the section Ruse, which we refer to, is 110 kilometers long. Its indicative value, according to the pre-project study, is 870 million. BGN, which includes alienation, construction, including viaducts, of road nodes, because this is complex terrain. The most important section of this terrain is a tour through the so-called "Belene Bair", where there are also the most accidents. For this area, it actually takes the most effort to make a round of White from the Northwest to ensure safe passage, the unconflict passage of heavy goods vehicles, because of which accidents occur most often. We've got 4 million in cash planned. lv. a budget resource in the budget of the Road Agency for this year to entrust the design. The details are first and foremost, you know, then it is a technical project for the construction of this section. In parallel, we have submitted it as a priority project in the project package that we submitted under the Juncker Plan. It is also a project which, of course, as an additional alternative, is included in the list of projects for which we will be negotiating with the European Investment Bank to continue the existing Transit Roads Programme, you know, the Programme "Transit Roads V" in its new format after this programme expires in 2016. We have been negotiating a new one since 2017 with the European Investment Bank. It will be called "European Transport Corridors." This, as an extremely important transport European corridor, is a project for which we want to receive funding from 2017 onwards Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u210	A line? Mr. Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u211	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. In my meeting with Russian citizens, with great-turners too, I hear skeptical positions, skeptical opinion about building even a high-speed road, let alone a highway. The desire of the Russians and the great-turners is to have a freeway. This must be known for sure. People have been lied to about 10 years about that some construction will have something on the road Ruse. I hope that even this year, as you said, money has been allocated for the design to have a project, to see what can happen on this road, because people continue to die on the road Ruse. The section of Ruse is also white, as I said, very heavy. I recommend that the competent state authorities endeavour to build this road or highway to regulate in some way traffic safety even better. It is evident that this section of the Republican road network requires urgent measures because people die every week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u212	Would you use a hole, Madam Secretary? No. The next question is the MP Yavor Haytov about the construction of a road section between the town of Vratsa and the village of Zgorigrad. Here you go, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u213	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, before I develop my question, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Northwest and the Vratsa region really need special care. It is no coincidence that we have initiated several questions to you, questions with the desire to pay attention to this region, which has suffered particularly many of the changes that have happened in recent years - unemployment and other problems in the region. Get to the point. My question to you is regarding the road Vratsa A remarkable tourist site is located in the Natural Park of Vrachanski Balkan. From the main road between the town of Vratsa and the village of Zgorigrad, the distance to the cave is about 14 kilometers. These 14 kilometers are part of the Republican road network. Unfortunately, this area is almost impenetrable due to the presence of several landslides and numerous huge holes. Near the cave there are several hotels and rest stations. Access to them is also almost impossible, which is an obstacle to the development of tourism as a whole. After talking to road construction experts familiar with this route, the conclusion is that about 1 million are needed to repair this area. lv. My question to you is: when and what are the opportunities to provide funding for this urgent repair? Please, Madam Minister, take into account the fact that Vratsa region and Northwest Bulgaria are most affected by the economic crisis in the country and this is a serious opportunity for some economic activity in the region and the development of tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u214	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. Minister Pavlova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Haytov! First, as an introduction, to assure you of our will and awareness of the need and importance to have targeted measures, projects, policy regarding not only Northwestern Bulgaria, but all the least developed and poor regions in the country are the border regions of Strandzha-Sakar. It is no coincidence that, you know, in our management programme and in the policy of the Ministry, we have a special team working for the development of a specific policy, projects to be implemented in Northwestern Bulgaria, as well as in our poorest regions outside the current programmes and projects, which are implemented with European funds. Specifically regarding your question about the precinct and the repair of the road from Vratsa to Zgorigrad, namely to the cave of Ledenika, I want to assure you that we are aware of the importance of this road for several reasons. Firstly, because it is in a very poor operational state and really before the 12th kilometer there is a landslide on the road, which needs to be strengthened in an emergency and accordingly the road to be repaired, but also because with the funds from the Operational Programme we supported the development of tourism in the region, investing a huge resource, approving financing for the repair of the cave and the attractions in front of it. Another question is that there are many complaints about how the project was implemented by the municipality of Vratsa, but an inspection is to be carried out, an inspection of the investment carried out as such. What I can assure you is that we are aware of the necessary emergency and repair activities on the road and they will be carried out after the winter period is over when we restore and complete winter maintenance. After winter, further opening of the sections of the road to be repaired will be done, and the road will be patched and repaired. Apart from that, however, the road must have its overall solution, namely overall reconstruction and rehabilitation. Therefore, given the importance of the road and because it is in Northwestern Bulgaria, to which we have a special attitude, when we have developed the methodology and have already applied it for the selection of projects on which to start priority funding under the.......................................................................... He's in the first priority projects to start. We have provided financial resources for it for both design and construction. The total route to be repaired is 18 kilometers from the road, including road junctions, and its indicative value is 12 million. lv. with funds under Operational Programme "Regions in Growth". I hope, after approval in June, that we will invite the Travel Agency to submit its project and that they can really start next year after a successful contractor has been selected, the activities of its overall renovation, reconstruction, rehabilitation and strengthening as necessary. Until then, whatever is necessary as emergency maintenance measures will be done within the current repair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u216	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Haytov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Madam Secretary. We have heard you and we are satisfied with the urgent repair as soon as possible, and after June for 12 million. lv. investment to repair this road. You said that from the highest tribune in the republic. I'll wait and see when you fulfill your commitments. By the way, I'd like to invite you to be a guest in Vratsa, we are kind hosts, you are a charming lady, we are waiting for you. The public will be happy to meet you, to see you. Perhaps in your right to the duplicate to indicate the day when we will have the opportunity to say welcome to you! "Welcome to present to you other projects that are of our attention, a common concern to us. I hope that you, too, as governors, will pay attention to these things. Thank you. [[Applause from the BDZ.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u218	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. Madam Minister, will you take advantage of your right to the back of your coat? No. I guess you'll have to figure out when to have the meeting operationally. The next question is from the National Representative Jayhan Ibryamov on building permits issued by the Ministry of Investment Design. Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! Although my question was asked about two and a half months ago, I am obliged to put this question to the public, because you then said in a TV interview things that today I will try to disprove. Until 19 November 2014, when they were adopted by the National Assembly the last amendments to the Law on the Construction of the Area, in accordance with art. 137 of the LU, the Ministry of Investment Design provided the overall process of examining, coordinating and approving the design documentation and issuing permits for construction of sites with a range up to one area which were designated by an act of the Council of Ministers for objects of national importance and/or for national sites, and constructions of a first and second category with indicative value of more than 10 million. BGN financed by public funds. Investment projects which fall under this hypothesis of the law are often for technical infrastructure projects financed under operational programmes of the European Union and the building permits issued are publicly announced in the Official Journal of the State, as well as on the official website of the Ministry of Investment Design at the time of their issue. Undoubtedly, the critical delay in the implementation of European projects is an adverse and undesirable result of our country's work in the implementation of the projects, but in your public appearances you repeatedly link this problem with the activities of the Ministry of Investment Design. In the morning block of bTV on 21 November 2014 you claim: The second lot on the highway is to be ready in November next year. Six months the Investment Ministry didn't give him a construction permit last year and here you have a six-month commitment. In this regard, my question to you is: on what facts are your public statements related to the case and did the Ministry of Investment Design have legal powers to approve projects and issue building permits for sites concerning the construction of any of the sections of Struma Motorway, as you suggest in your television participation?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u220	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibryamov. Minister Pavlova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u221	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ibryamov! Frankly, I don't see why we need to waste parliamentary time discussing one, thank God, non-existent and indoor ministry. A ministry that was created without motives, without added value, without arguments. A ministry that has proven its short existence, its inefficiencies and that thanks to this ministry responsibilities and functions have been cleared. We have a complete duplication of functions and powers between the Ministry of Regional Development at that time, the Ministry of Investment Design and Municipalities. Powers have been taken from municipalities that have been given to them as independent local authorities. It's all in the past now, and I don't think we should waste time with that. Several arguments, however, that are important. However, it took the ministry six months to structure itself, six months to hire employees, to develop a structure, to order furniture, mainly to order furniture and equipment, and at the same time many projects had to be approved. Projects that no one knew which project would approve of it the Minister of Regional Development, which project would be approved by the Minister of Investment Design, and each municipality had long been in a quiver for six months, while all laws and regulations were amended, more than 120 of which had to be changed in order to be able to know which one was responsible, which permission was issued. And not only that. For its short existence, this ministry spent to exist with its duplicates, almost 100% functions, with the Regional Ministry, 3 million for salaries, additional material remuneration and maintenance. What's the end result? The result is clear.. just had nothing to do with it. Duplication of functions has led to this as an argument several examples in the Ministry of Investment Design the Directorate, which deals precisely with the issuance of building permits and investment processes, has issued 33 building permits. 13 employees worked for this activity. During the same period, at the same time 7 people worked at the Ministry of Regional Development, in the Directorate and issued over 111 building permits. What is efficiency and what is the need? Now these same 7 employees issue all building permits that are within the authority, so we've obviously fed an additional 13 employees. It is important to have employment, but hardly this way with additional officials. Similarly, for the year of its existence, there is a detailed plan by these same additional 13 employees, and 63 detailed spatial plans are considered in the Ministry of Regional Development. This is only a small example, and it is a fact that there is a delay on the highway. He's prominent, that's a fact. The construction permit was issued late, precisely in search of the competent authority, because even if it was not the Ministry of Investment Design but the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, it became clear after six months when the necessary laws and regulations were adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u222	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Ibryamov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u223	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! It is a pity that from this high tribune you continue to instill and speak untruths. It was precisely with the powers that the Ministry of Investment Design had received 33 building permits and were issued so much, and that you did not bother to get to know in detail exactly what the function of the Ministry was, why it was created, is very pathetic. You are a minister with experience, I hope, and you do not need to deceive the entire Bulgarian society with the inefficiency of the already non-existent ministry. I hope and will monitor very closely the work of the Ministry of Regional Development in the period in which you are now ruling. So my request is that when you go out and you are asked a specific question, you answer specifically, because the permission to build the highway is not included in the Ministry of Investment Design.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u224	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibryamov. Madam Secretary? You will not take advantage of your right to a line. We are going to ask the National Representative Dora Yankova and Manol Genov about the Project of Operational Program "Regions in Growth". Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u225	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! Our question is about the Project of Operational Program "Regions in Growth". The project for the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" was sent for approval to the European Commission on 17 November 2014. The programme was approved by Decision No 768 of the Council of Ministers and has passed all possible coordination procedures. It envisions investments from the European Regional Development Fund and national co-financing within eight priority axes with a volume of 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. EUR for improving socio-economic and territorial development, generating growth and employment in the Bulgarian regions. The programme argues that the financial support under the Operational Programme is territorially balanced, citing a new priority axis 2 in the original version, aimed at the development of peripheral geographical areas most affected by poverty and social exclusion. Dear Minister, our question to you is as follows: what policy will be carried out by your office and, accordingly, the managing authority to remove the existence of white spots for investments for municipalities from first to third hierarchic level, because there is no possibility to finance anything in their villages. It is impossible to invest in municipal road infrastructure, there is no programme to finance water infrastructure in settlements below 2000 people, and ultimately we all want water sector reform to be comprehensive, to cover as many settlements as possible and to reduce losses there. In addition, mayors and municipalities and the population living there have high expectations, as in the previous version of the Regional Development. So we expect your response, as chosen from such regions, what will be the policy of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u226	For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u227	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mrs. Yankova, Dear Mrs. Genov! The preparation, development, prioritization of the objectives and measures and cities to be financed under the Operational Programme) started as early as 2011. In order to be objective in planning and programming this Programme, we commissioned the development of the so-called National concept of spatial planning. Behind this complex term is precisely the balanced planning of investments in all regions in all territories of the country. As a result of this Concept, several hierarchic levels of development were identified, as it says, starting from the capital. Second level, these are the nine major cities that have economic growth on the territory of the country, down are already the medium, and smaller settlements for level four. Thanks to the cities identified at the time and priorities for their development as a link between large cities and peripheral areas and settlements, the types of investments are identified as well as the number of cities to be potential beneficiaries in this operational programme. In this way, it was developed at the end of 2012 and was sent for coordination with the European Commission at the beginning of 2013. After long negotiations in 2013 and all 2014, to date I can say that its approval is ahead of finalisation. Its approval includes several important stages. First, the first priority axis is the largest axis of this programme. Of the total value of 3 billion lv. Investment under the programme has the largest budget resource and will be financed by the largest and medium-sized 39 cities, according to the concept identified as engines of economic growth, the so-called drivers for urban development. These are the cities in which 85% of the Bulgarian population live. The second priority axis separates smaller settlements. Small and medium-sized cities are also going to receive investment in what is called the airararchic level 4. The investment invested in them is at the amount of 206 million "saved funding for targeted investments in these small settlements, of course they can apply on the other priority axes for education, tourist infrastructure and others. What you said about the villages, it's not like that. I would like to point out that, in the first priority axis, the 39 cities in question have the possibility of investing this resource outside their development plans outside their projects which have been pre-established and identified by 20% of the budget for each city that is indicatively allocated in the villages that are in the territory of the respective municipality of these 39 cities. In this way, we will compensate for insufficient funding and under the Rural Development Programme precisely for those villages located near the cities to urban agglomerations. For all other villages and regions and settlements falling within the so-called rural areas, all of them will be able to apply under the Rural Development Programme, including for road infrastructure, including plumbing and sewerage of these settlements, including those below 2000 equivalents. This is possible because we have had separate negotiations with colleagues from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food who are in charge of programming the Rural Development Programme so that this time we do not give this limit, which you mentioned and was valid for the period 2007 - 2013 when these small settlements when they were a beneficiary of the CFP could not apply for funding in the Rural Development Programme and vice versa. Now this opportunity is given, and I confirm that, including for the 28 cities in the updated and adopted Wednesday of the Council of Ministers, the Rural Development Programme, albeit with insufficient resources, but still in the planned resources there for municipalities, will be able to apply for road and water infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u228	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Two supplementary questions. Mrs. Dora Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u229	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In fact, Madam Minister, yes, on 17 November 2014 you sent to the European Commission the Operational Programme My two supplementary questions to you are as follows. Will it be zero 2015 for the Bulgarian municipalities under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth"? My second question, to which you to my colleague Genov and to me, both of us have given a more spacious answer, is this: for the fourth level of the hierarchy, you have decided that under the Rural Development Programme, there will be an opportunity to finance the construction of settlements below 2,000 equivalent inhabitants. For the rural periphery at the third level the district cities, such as my town Smolyan, Targovishte and other district cities, will be invested up to 20% of the funds due for integrated urban development. This will be good, but we know how the country has been developing for years as urbanized territory and as the establishment of municipalities. Smolyan Municipality has six former rural municipalities. Twenty percent is almost nothing. We also know that the municipal road infrastructure will not be the subject of investment through the "Regions in growth" programme, as this will be a regional road infrastructure, where the beneficiary will be the "Travel Infrastructure" agency. I'd like you to make a little more clarification here. Yes, you in the course of the Operational Program "Regions in growth" and the municipalities themselves, citizens, business should be able to target their tasks for economic development and investment so that Bulgaria can actually be polycentricly developed. Otherwise, we get the impression that this is not as recorded the main goal of the Operational Program "Regions in Growth".
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u230	For an answer Mrs. Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u231	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Yankova, on your first question, our efforts are aimed at preventing in 2015, as unfortunately happened in 2014, to be a zero year for European funds. In order to be able to implement this, the team of the Managing Authority of the Operational Program is currently developing a draft application guidelines for municipalities to be invited to submit their projects and project proposals. We plan in advance the draft application guidelines to be declared consistent with them. As you know, we are doing this to facilitate the process in the spring and at the latest in June to announce the invitations to apply to municipalities and within their integrated plans to present their projects. Then we will begin the overall process of submitting and approving the design. For their part, those of them who are willing will also be able to announce in advance public procurement, in parallel with the process of approving the projects. You know that we invested in the projects, in their preparation, so we have a good project readiness and that is possible. With regard to the second question, yes, indisputably moderate polycentralism, as a way by which we try to overcome white spots and have relatively good and balanced regional development, requires all settlements, including those at level four, namely the average 28 settlements of this level to receive funding. As I confirmed just now, these settlements of this level will receive not only the ones provided for in the Programme. lv. as investment for their urban environment, economic development areas and infrastructure, but they will also be able to receive funding under Priority 7 in the Rural Development Programme where retail large-scale infrastructure funding is provided for in these settlements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u232	For the treatment of Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u233	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! From the answer we received, it became clear that yes, first, second and third levels will have about 900 million, which is approximately 23 million. lv. for infrastructure development and for individual sectoral policies. 23 to 25 million. lv. With regard to the fourth level, it became clear that approximately 3.7 million in seven years will be available for smaller cities of the fourth level. However, there remains the question and my concern, because despite the fact that there is about 80% of the population living in large cities, that these are the locomotives for economic development, but we, as a National Assembly, and you, as a Bulgarian minister, have a commitment to develop the territory as a whole and to ensure that wherever they are, they must receive all public services as rights. My great concern is the road infrastructure leading to the settlements. There will be no funds on these programs. I appeal to you: make a national programme and offer it to Parliament to support it. With regard to water supply, we know the problems with the water sector. It doesn't look like it. These are villages, where there are places with programs, you know very well. Give a program in the National Assembly, let's vote on it with a national budget, so we don't miss out and for 14 years the disproportions in these large settlements become even deeper. And we, as MPs, should go and say: "There is no European funds. So today in Parliament, speaking with you, as Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, I turn to the following. In the program of the government you have recorded a program for development of the Bulgarian village. Give it quickly and secure it financially, because it will be extremely important for the development of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-13.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. The time for parliamentary control today with the extended minutes of declarations on behalf of parliamentary groups is running out. We don't have the minutes for Mr. Willy Lilkov to develop his question, but he'll be first on Tuesday, and so will you, Mrs. Minister. Parliamentary control announcements on 17 February 2015, Tuesday, 9.00 p.m., extraordinary sitting: First will answer 15 questions from the MPs Willi Lilkov, Yavor Haytov and Hristo Todorov, Dimitar Dubov and Manol Genov, Kornelia Marinova, Dimitar Bajraktarov, Nikolay Alexandrov and 2 questions; Radoslav Stoychev and Kiril Dobrev, Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Borislav Iglev, Manol Genov, Manol Genov and Radoslav Stoychev, Magdalena Tasheva, Ayhan Etem, and Nikolay Alexandrov and Kalina Balabanov. The Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer 6 questions from the MPs Antoni Trenchev, Valentin Pavlov, Dimitar Gorov, Dimitar Shishkov, Nastimir Ananiev, Cornelia Nino and 2 questions from the MPs Georgi Kuchukov and Nastimir Ananiev. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control, Mrs. Pavlova. The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev will answer 5 questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Dimitar Dubov? a common question, Kalina Balabanovova, Ivan Stankov 2 questions, and Dimitar Tanev and Boyka Marinska and 1 question from the National Representative Boyka Marinska. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer 13 questions from the MPs Metodi Andreyev, Bunyamin Hasan, Aidoan Ali and Hamid Hamid, Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov, Mustafa Ahmed and Erdinch Hajrula, Svetla Bachvarova and Dobryn Danev, Yavor Haytov, Svetla Bachvarova 3 questions, Maya Manolova, Dimitar Bajraktarov, Stefan Kenov, and Korman Ismailov and 2 questions from the MPs Kornelia Nino, and Boris Yachev. Members of Parliament, the minister answered your question. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva will answer 3 questions from the MPs Philip Popov, Yanaki Stoilov, and Petar Ivanov Petrov. Interior Minister Veselin Vuchkov will answer 5 questions from the MPs Petar Slavov, Georgi Kadiev, Valentin Nikolov Ivanov, Maya Manolova and Christian Vigenin. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer 6 questions from the MPs Metodi Andreyev, Ivan Dimitrov, Petar Slavov, Volen Siderov, Krasimir Bogdanov, and Miho Mihov. The Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov will answer 3 questions from the MPs Velizar Enchev, Kiril Kalfin, and Stefan Kenov. The Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov will answer a question from the National Representative Velizar Enchev. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer 4 questions from the MPs Maya Manolova 2 questions, Emil Raynov, and Velizar Enchev. Economy Minister Bozidar Lukarski will answer 3 questions from the MPs Nikolay Alexandrov, and Georgi Bozhinov 2 questions. Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov will answer 2 questions from the MPs Desislav Chukolov, and Valeri Zablyanov. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer 2 questions from the MPs Desislav Chukolov, and Krasimir Yankov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on a request from the National Representative Maya Manolova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to 3 questions written by the MPs Jayhan Ibryamov, Kostadin Markov, and Ahmed Ahmedov; - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova of 5 questions from the MPs Petar Slavov, Mihail Mikov, Zhelyo Boychev and Georgi Svilenski, Willi Lilkov, Maya Manolova, and Cornelia Ninova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov on a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev on a question from the National Representative Korman Ismailov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 4 and art. 97, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, due to the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - 6 questions from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov to the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva, 2 questions, to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov, to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov, and to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova; - 3 questions from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov 2 questions, and to the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will not participate. Due to a commitment to a working visit to Montana, the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. The next session, on Tuesday, February 17th. Start time "9:00 p.m. I am adjourning today's plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
