ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u1	There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. Before we go any further, allow me to read you a message. On 5 March 2015 the National Assembly received a Report on the extent of implementation of the established areas of policies and budgetary programmes of the Ministry of Finance for 2014. The report was made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Let me also offer you the apology of the National Assembly's leadership for not being able to read the parliamentary control list yesterday. I hope he's reached everyone on the way to the parliamentary groups. It's also on the website. All this happened because of events that you saw at the end of the meeting, which, according to the National Assembly's leadership, are absolutely unacceptable. I think and hope that all MPs think that way. Such actions, which took place yesterday at the end of the plenary session, do not contribute in any case to increasing the authority of the National Assembly, but the opposite. In this regard: I take the floor of the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov, and of the MP Desislav Chukolov I impose the disciplinary measure on the people. [[Radio and lines.]] Please don't call from the gym! For the future, on behalf of the management, I declare that we will adhere strictly to the Rules of Procedure and, in particular, to Section III of the Rules of Procedure and to the sanctions provided for when a Member of the National Assembly departs from the conduct described in this Section. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u2	Mr. President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, I take the floor for a procedure on one matter which already concerns the entire National Assembly and the authority of the National Assembly. It's obvious that it's become a practice... [[Replying from the hall: not heard!]] Can't you hear? Turn up the microphones a little bit, coworkers, because you can't hear it in the back. I say: it is evident that it is becoming a practice in this National Assembly that someone from the Patriotic Front takes the floor, at some point a group stands up and starts insulting, screaming, challenging.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u3	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u4	Listen to me and I'll tell you. These scenes, these excesses lead to nothing good except the removal of the authority of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u5	That's what I started with.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u6	However, I cannot understand why you are punishing Mr. Bajraktarov, when he has in no way challenged anyone but to read some of the writings that were published in a newspaper. Now I'm going to offer you something...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u7	If you see art. 54 of the Rules of Procedure, you will see that he has not been punished.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u8	Mr. Chairman, please listen to me. Therefore, I call on you from now on, when imposing penalties, to make these penalties adequate. I also urge you to judge not only yourself, but also Mrs Tsacheva, the situation in which we all fall, because these fascisoid manifestations lead nowhere.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u9	What's your procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u10	My procedure is when it comes to such excesses, just remove those who constantly attack and insult. Because the punishment must be apparent, categorically, to those who, over the term of office, act in the same way. Otherwise...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u11	I get it. The type of punishment shall be determined by the President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u12	Let me finish... [[The President turns off microphones, the speaker continues to speak with microphones off. Replies: "Search! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u13	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u14	Mr. Chairman, I accept your view that such events are indeed unacceptable. There's only one sentence I have to say if you stop talking lies at our address, we'll stop talking truths at your address.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u15	Is that for me?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u16	They know who it's for. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u17	Because you've taken the procedure in the manner of conducting it. Let's continue with: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE RECEIVED AND THE ARGUED FORES OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Please vote. They voted 159 MPs: 132 against 7, abstention 20. The bill was passed at first reading. Negative vote, Mr. Chukolov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I voted against this law as a patriot, as a nationalist. Nationalist isn't a weird word. I want you to know that. Many on the inside sometimes you come to say: "Ama, he was a nationalist, he was a so-called one. " When you say this, when you share it with a foreigner, he says: "Wait, in your parliament all you have to be patriots, you have to be nationalists, you have to stand up for yourself. With this vote, we didn't stand by ours, colleagues. On the contrary, we have given ourselves sovereignty here. With this Law, we have allowed foreign government, military, and command our troops. We have done so that, as Mr. Siderov said yesterday, the Turkish general will come here, will congratulate our troops with Of course we're against it. [[Radio.]] Don't laugh, don't exaggerate. Someday you'll laugh so much that your smile will get cold. [[Relations from the Patriotic Front.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u19	Don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u20	Do you understand what you just did? We betray sovereignty, we give ourselves the authority that came here to command us. Yes, from the DPS I expected it, from GERB I expected it, but from the Patriotic Front I did not expect this, colleagues. I didn't see that coming. I really didn't expect this. Yeah, I was thinking here yesterday, I threw you papers and stuff like that today, I thought you'd at least think a little bit about what it's all about. It's not patriotic for a little while. It's not! You should know that. Another step with which Bulgaria likes it again someone else to manage it. Of course, we would be against this from the Ataka. There's no other way to vote. There's no way. And at second reading, we will vote this way. I hope until the second reading, which is said until the second coming, if you will, will come just a little bit from a little bit, let you know what this is about. We're betraying our country. Another surrender of Bulgaria. Shame and shame on you! [[Field lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. Go ahead, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, art. 80, para. 1 I propose a reduction between the first and second readings of three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u23	A reverse opinion? I won't. Please vote on the procedure proposed by the MP Vladimir Toshev to shorten the deadline. Vote 161 MPs: 135 against 24 abstentions 2. The proposal to shorten the period of three days has been accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda... [[Noise and lines.]] Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please, on the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be extended by another seven days the term of the Law on Bankruptcy, No 454-01-47, submitted by Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u25	A reverse opinion? I won't. Please vote on the proposed by the National Representative Diana Yordanova procedure. They voted 153 MPs: 146 against 7, no abstentions. The proposal to extend the deadline has been accepted. Now we can move on to the next item on the agenda, and it is: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR FISCAL COUNCIL AND CORRECT MECHANISMS. Importer: Council of Ministers on 9 February 2015 With the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, we will be introduced by her Vice-President Diana Yordanova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A procedural proposal for admission to a hall. Mrs. Karina Karaivanova, Deputy Minister of Finance, and Mrs. Marinela Petrova, Director of the Economic and Financial Policy Directorate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u27	Please, on the proposal so made, the voting regime. Colleagues, vote. Vote 142 MPs: 139 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the designated seats. Mrs. Yordanova, come in for a report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u28	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe under the Fiscal Council Bill and corrective mechanisms, No 502-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 February 2015. At a meeting held on 18 February 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Fiscal Council Bill and corrective mechanisms submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Finance Karina Karaivanova, who presented the bill. The Fiscal Council Bill and corrective mechanisms transpose some of the provisions of Council Directive 2011/85/EU of 8 November 2011 on requirements for the budgetary frameworks of the Member States. The Directive introduces certain requirements for national budgetary forecasts, medium-term budgetary frameworks and national numerical fiscal rules. To comply with the latter, the Directive provides that there must be effective and timely monitoring carried out by independent institutions with functional autonomy in relation to the fiscal authorities of the Member States. The bill governs the establishment, functions, composition and activities of the Fiscal Council, as well as the introduction and implementation of automatic corrective mechanisms within the meaning of art. 23, al. 3 of the Public Finance Act. The Bill sets the main objectives of the new independent body, namely: independent monitoring and analysis of the budgetary framework with a view to maintaining sustainable public finances and improving the quality of official macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts by carrying out an impartial assessment based on objective criteria, as well as increasing the transparency and awareness of the public about the country's fiscal governance. The main principles are defined on the basis of which the Fiscal Council will carry out its activities: independence and publicity, objectivity and transparency, equality of its members. The Council's main function will be to monitor compliance with the numerical fiscal rules set out in the Public Finance Act and relating to the public administration sector and the consolidated fiscal programme. The Council will draw up opinions on the spring and autumn macroeconomic forecasts of the Minister of Finance, their medium-term budget forecast and the state budget bill, as well as on the budget bills of state social security and the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. The Council will also draw up a reasoned opinion on the accounts for the implementation of the state budget, the budgets of state social security and other social security funds administered by the National Insurance Institute and the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. The draft provides that the existence of a significant deviation from the medium-term budgetary objective for the structural deficit or the discount for its achievement is established by one or more of the following bodies: the European Commission, the Minister of Finance, within the framework of the budgetary process and the Fiscal Council. After the discussion, a vote was held which ended with the following results:...................... 14 MPs,............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a Draft for the Fiscal Council and corrective mechanisms, No 502-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 February 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. The next report is the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. On behalf of the Commission, Mrs. Hubenova, you usually present the reports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u30	"COMMODITY" to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds on a Fiscal Council Bill and corrective mechanisms, No 502-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 February 2015. At its regular meeting held on 18 February 2015, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Fiscal Council Bill and the corrective mechanisms submitted by the Council of Ministers. In the meeting of the Commission took part: Ms. Karina Karaivanova-Ganozova Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Metodiev, Head of Department of Economic and Financial Policy at the Ministry of Finance, and Mrs. Sonia Dimitrova Chief Expert in the same Directorate. The draft law has been developed in accordance with Council Directive 2011/85/EU of 8 November 2011 on requirements for the budgetary frameworks of the Member States. The Directive introduces certain requirements for national budgetary forecasts, medium-term budgetary frameworks and national numerical fiscal rules. To comply with the latter, the Directive provides that there must be effective and timely monitoring carried out by independent institutions having functional autonomy with regard to the fiscal authorities of the Member States. It should be borne in mind that the deadline for introducing its provisions into the national legislation of the Member States expired on 31 December 2013. Due to the early dissolution of the 42nd National Assembly, the Fiscal Council Bill was not finally adopted by it (adopted at second reading in the Commission but did not reach a hearing in plenary). In this regard, the European Commission has launched infringement proceedings against the Republic of Bulgaria. The adoption of the Draft Law establishes conditions for the termination of this procedure. The bill is also implemented by the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU), which states that compliance with the fiscal rules laid down therein must be respected by independent national institutions. The Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the EMU itself was signed by 25 Member States of the European Union, including Bulgaria, in March 2012 and ratified by the National Assembly on 28 November 2013. This Draft Fiscal Council Act establishes an independent advisory body on fiscal governance matters. The provisions of Directive 2011/85/EU and the requirements of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance of the European Union regarding independent fiscal institutions are thus transposed. The other provisions of the Directive, as well as the provisions of Title III of the Treaty, are transposed by the Public Finance Act adopted in January 2013. The proposed Draft Law on the Fiscal Council establishes conditions for independent monitoring and analysis of the country's budgetary policy and for increasing budgetary transparency and publicity, which is directly related to the objectives of the European semester in the European Union. The Council's main function will be to monitor compliance with the numerical fiscal rules laid down in the Public Finance Act and relating to the public administration sector and the consolidated fiscal programme. It is envisaged that the Fiscal Council will consist of five members, including a chairman, who will be elected by the National Assembly for a term of 6 years. The bill also provides an opportunity for members of the Council to be elected persons of foreign nationality. Such practice is observed in the relevant legislation of a number of Member States that have created independent fiscal institutions and contributes to increasing the independence and international recognition of the institution's work. In conclusion, it should be noted that the draft Law on Fiscal Council complies with the provisions of European Union law as regards independent monitoring and analysis of budgetary policy. This is an important condition for achieving and maintaining long-term sustainability of the basic fiscal parameters and for creating a predictable investment and economic environment. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 9 votes for the European Union, 1 vote against the Council of Ministers and 1 vote abstention of the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the Fiscal Council and corrective mechanisms, No 502-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 February 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Hubenova. No other committee reports were received. I'm opening the debate. For speech "Mr. Slavcho Binev." Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, we support the establishment of a Fiscal Council and corrective mechanisms. There are only a few questions and supplements that need to be made. The question is why should it be accepted now that we are back in infringement procedure, on the basis that all this should have happened by the end of 2013? I'm not gonna ask who's responsible for this, because I never got an answer to that question, and I doubt it's gonna happen this time. But there are several detailed points that should be reviewed, and this is the lack of clarity on these issues. First of all, who is this Fiscal Council reporting to? It didn't really make sense to me who he was reporting to. What happens if he doesn't sit down, what happens? In para. 1 of art. 13 writes that the Council may receive an evaluation from other independent fiscal surveillance organisations, may not receive one. That's first. Secondly, I don't understand who these organizations are that he can get from. They must be clearly described as to what sanctions they may impose in the event of non-compliance with those obligations. Does he have to get grades at three years old? That's where I found out he could get grades at three years old, but couldn't he not get those grades? And my third question is: why exactly 3 years old, because the term is 6 years old? This means that for a term in practice this Fiscal Council will receive assessments exactly twice. I think it's extremely insufficient if we really want this not to be a decorative structure. I believe that at least in these matters, between first and second readings, measures must be taken to enable this Law to be effective, but not to be decorative, which are many of the laws that have been adopted so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u33	Thank you, Mr. Binev. A line? I can't see. Another MP for speech? I won't. Colleagues, I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote at first reading the Fiscal Council Bill and corrective mechanisms, No 502-01-15, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 9 February 2015. Vote 117 MPs: 116, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST READING THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE CIVIL AIRCRAFT LAW. Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. You're welcome to present the report, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Please, on the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber Mr. Angel Ratchev by the State Enterprise.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u35	Please vote on the proposal. They voted 102 MPs: 95, against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u36	♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act, No 502-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 February 2015. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 12 February 2015, a Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act was discussed, No 502-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 February 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Anton Ginev, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, who presented the bill. The Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act proposes to waive the requirement to complete, send and approve a flight plan for flights outside the controlled airspace. When submitting the bill by importers, it was claimed that the reason for the existence of the requirement to conduct domestic flights in uncontrolled airspace is based solely on the requirement to provide search and rescue activities in the event of an accident or accident. The amendment of the Civil Aviation Act to this part complies with the requirements of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 923/2012 of 26 September 2012 laying down common rules for flights and operating provisions on air navigation services and procedures and amending Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1035/2011 and Regulations (EC) No 1265/2007, (EC) No 1794/2006, (EC) No 730/2006, (EC) No 1033/2006 and (EU) No 255/2010. The Law proposes that the metrology service should not be part of the main subject of the activity of the State-owned undertaking. As a motive for dropping this text from the Law it was pointed out that this will eliminate the existing duplication with the subject of activity of the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology. Another major change in the Civil Aviation Act concerns the proposal that the Council of Ministers adopt a National Plan for Search and Rescue in aviation accidents outside the area with a radius of 5 km from the airport control point. The costs of the activities included in the search and rescue plan are intended to be included in the national cost base of the travel fees for flying into the serviced airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria. The representatives of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications explained that the need to adopt the plan by the Council of Ministers stems from the need to include responsible departments and organisations with competence and resources for carrying out search and rescue activities in aviation accidents. They stressed that these are structures of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and others. The draft Law also implements recommendations given as a result of the certification checks carried out by the European Aviation Safety Agency, the Directorate General for Air Transport and in particular introduces an administrative-criminal provision which provides for administrative penalties for failure to comply with Commission Regulation (EU) No 255/2010 of 25 March 2010 laying down common rules for air traffic flow management. Following the debates held on the Draft Law and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 12 votes..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u37	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. The next report belongs to the Budget and Finance Committee. Mrs. Yordanova will report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u38	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance under the Draft Law Amendment to the Civil Aviation Act No 502-01-11 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 February 2015. At its meeting on 18 February 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Krasimira Stoyanova, Director of the Department of Legal and Chief of Staff of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Georgi Peev. The project proposes the following amendments and additions: The requirement to complete, send and approve a flight plan for flights outside the controlled airspace is proposed to increase the capacity and efficiency of air traffic services units; the safety levels of flights will be maintained and the business environment for general aviation development and flights for aviation and chemical work will be improved. It is proposed that the metrology service should not be part of the main subject of the activity of the State-owned enterprise "Air Traffic Guide" which will eliminate the existing duplication with the subject of the activity of the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology. The Council of Ministers is proposed to adopt a National Search and Rescue Plan for aviation accidents, which results from the need to include responsible departments and organisations with competence and resources for carrying out search and rescue activities in aviation accidents. The plan will provide funds for activities related to the improvement of the existing and the development of additional capabilities of the authorities and bodies described therein for land, air and water operations, as well as for the implementation of specific activities related to the search and rescue of aviation accidents. The bill implements recommendations made as a result of the certification checks carried out by the European Aviation Safety Agency of the General Directorate of the Air Administration. After the discussion, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act, No 502 01 11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 February 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. By a resolution of the President of the National Assembly, this Bill is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Such a report was not received in due course. I pay attention to the Commission's management within the time limit to submit its reports. With this, the committee reports have been exhausted. I'm announcing an open debate. I ask for speeches on the submitted bill. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! It became clear from the committee reports that, for the most part, the proposed amendments to the bill concern the introduction of different European regulations and it is not clear what it is doing in this bill to drop out in art. 53, para. 2, p. 6. It's about the metrology lab of the Air Traffic Guide (RET). This attempt to remove the laboratory from the main activity is perhaps done for the third or fourth year... here Members of the National Assembly with greater experience will say, as far as I have information, both in the forty-first year and in the forty-second year, and now in the forty-third National Assembly. I cannot understand what the interest is in this laboratory, because in the arguments of the importers, I do not see the Director of the Air Traffic Management (ATS), but there is a representative who I hope will give an answer to the people's office (BIM) the only argument for dropping this activity is the duplication of the work of the laboratory with the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology (BIM). And it's quoted as art. 10, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Measurements: The provisions of the Measurement Act apply to measuring instruments that apply to cases of art. 5 Health, public safety, environmental protection, state and municipal claims and commercial payments, and are defined in the Ordinance on measuring instruments which are subject to metrological control under art. 6, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 28............................................................................... This Ordinance does not include the means for measuring electrical and radio technical quantities operated in the RTB. So they're not in the legally regulated area. The Bulgarian Institute of Metrology does not carry out calibrations of radiotechnical measuring devices that are prevailing for the CVD. There are no radiotechnical and high frequency measurements in the structure of BIM. This is also one of the reasons why the calibration laboratory was created to provide a metrology check of these measuring instruments operated in the ATC. By the way, I have requested an opinion of the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology and from the examination of the bill in the Commission to this day no such opinion has been received. So if we shut down this laboratory or take it out of the activities of the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology, is the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology capable of carrying out these activities? And I'll tell you that it's not in the options, because it's not usually the subject of an activity. If the laboratory is closed and removed from the activities of the ATC, it is only one option to send the calibration and verification of the ATM equipment abroad. Here I will ask the representative of the RCC again to say how much more expensive this calibration will cost abroad and how much longer a period of time it will be carried out. In the presence of its own laboratory, this thing takes place within a day to a week, and in the presence of a laboratory abroad, as there is only one in Bulgaria, there is no other, other than that of the BULATSA, the appliances will have to be sent to check abroad. How long and how much money would it take? Since the financial arguments that the Director of the R&D also tried to present do not withstand the truth, he claims that this laboratory is at a loss, and if these checks and measurements are to be carried out abroad, the amounts are more than 350 thousand, according to my reports. lv. My request is the representative of the RCC from this platform to explain what the purpose of the change in the Law is for this activity to be taken out as the main one of the Air Traffic Guides to enable the MPs to know what they are voting for. Otherwise, in other texts and other proposals from the Bill, I have absolutely no concerns and I would support them. But this thing concerns me, and for this reason I will not support the proposed First Voting Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u41	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. A line? I won't. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? I won't. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act, No 502-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 February 2015. They voted 105 MPs: 84 against 1, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, the meeting will continue at 11.00 with Parliamentary control. Mr. Tomislav Donchev will be the first to respond to the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy. The following are the answers from Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin, Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Minister of Finance Mr. Vladislav Goranov, Mr. Bozidar Lukarski. Minister of Economy, Mr. Nikolay Nenchev. Minister of Defence, Mr. Hristo Ivanov. Minister of Justice, Mr. Todor Tanev. Minister of Education and Science, Dr. Petar Moskov, Minister of Health, Mr. Vejdi Rashidov Minister of Culture, Mrs. Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture and Food, Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, and Mr. Krasen Kralev, Minister of Youth and Sports. I'm calling a break till 11:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u42	Honourable Members of the National Assembly! The sitting continues with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 27 February " 5 March 2015' from: - National Representative Petar Vladislavov Slavov and Vili Mladenov Lilkov to Vejdi Rashidov, Minister of Culture, on the policy of the Ministry of Culture regarding communism monuments, opportunities for their preservation in the Museum of Socialist Art at the Ministry of Culture, including the Monument of the Soviet Army in Sofia. The reply should be made in plenary on 13 March 2015; - National Representative Boyka Grozeva Marinska of Todor Tanev, Minister of Education and Science, on the status of eligibility for taking up positions and participation in the general meetings of the higher schools of lecturers, habilitated persons not over 65 years of age. The reply should be made in plenary on 13 March 2015; - MP Vili Mladenov Lilkov to Nikolay Nenchev, Minister of Defence, about a threat to national and international security in the use of small drones. The reply should be made in writing by 18 March 2015. Written answers to questions from: - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Emil Raynov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Emil Raynov; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on a question from the National Representative Ilian Todorov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Petar Hristov Petrov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovalyski; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valkov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Kristian Vigenin; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Zdravko Todorov; - Minister of Interior Veselin Vuchkov on a question from the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Dobromir Prodanov. We are now moving towards parliamentary control and Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy will be the first to respond. He will answer a question from the National Representative Manol Trifonov Genov concerning the imposed financial corrections under the Project Here you are, Mr. Genov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev is about the financial corrections imposed under the Project "Restructuring and modernization of the sewerage network," the replacement of the depreciated water network of Sopot city and of the project "Engineering" working design, coordination and construction of a waste water treatment plant with the leading collector of Sopot city under the Operational Program "Environment" with the beneficiary municipality of Sopot. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Sopot Municipality is implementing a project under Operational Programme "Environment and Waters" for the reconstruction and modernization of the sewerage network, replacement of the depreciated water supply network of Sopot. By letter dated 29 January 2015, the managing authority of the OCS notified the beneficiary of a final financial correction of 5% of the value of a contract with the Contractor of the United Sopot Construction Group, amounting to 25 million. Nine hundred and BGN 123. According to the Authority's findings, the adjustment imposed is due to unlawful removal of a candidate, non-covering of the requirements concerning a key expert of the company chosen as a contractor and incorrect requirement in the notice and the documentation for participation in the procedure. The same violation of the procedures was accepted in the project "Full engineering" working design and coordination, organization of construction and construction works, supply of technological equipment and installation, construction of a waste water treatment plant and a leading collector of Sopot City, training of staff and starting of the station, for the implementation of which there is a financial correction again of 25%, or 4.5 million. BGN, which, together with the interest rates, exceeds 6 million. lv. In answer to my question, Minister Ivelina Vassileva explains that no new facts and circumstances have arisen so far which would lead to the cancellation of the financial correction imposed. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please inform me what measures and actions the Sopot municipality should have taken to get out of the situation? If projects cannot be completed within the specified deadlines, what will be the consequences for Sopot Municipality? What is the responsibility of Sopot Municipality for the adjustments imposed on the projects?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u45	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, you are obviously familiar with the background of projects implemented by Sopot Municipality, as well as the financial corrections imposed, so I do not intend to repeat some information anymore. If you need further technical details, including chronology, there is no problem for such information to be provided to you in writing, because here the time is too short to pay attention. I will try to give you a basic answer to the questions that have been asked. What measures and actions did Sopot municipality have to take to get out of the situation? First of all, it is appropriate to note that the basic package of measures that should have been taken is in the award phase not to allow infringements and not to create prerequisites for financial correction. Once the correction is imposed anyway, there are measures in several directions. First of all, it is the creation of all the possibilities that the project, which is under way, although it is subject to an adjustment, is to be completed. I explain why: an unfinished project which does not fulfil its objectives... for it all funding must be restored. This is even more frightening than the imposition of a financial correction. Therefore, there are mechanisms created, in the back of time, the municipalities that have been in such need of a problem, have no funds to complete the project, could have used funds from the FAG low-interest loans. For about two months there has been a similar possibility under even more attractive conditions the use of interest-free credit by the Ministry of Finance for municipalities which are in a similar situation. Regarding the correction itself, there are different options. If the beneficiary, in the case of the municipality, considers that his correction has been unlawfully imposed, he shall seek his rights using the opposition procedure before the managing authorities or the auditors, depending on who proposed the correction. Secondly, the possibility of the beneficiary seeking his rights by judicial means cannot be excluded in any way, which, unfortunately, the municipality of Sopot has not done in this case. Thirdly, the newly established Methodical Council of the Council of Ministers, which is not entitled to review the adjustment imposed by a managing authority or by an auditor, is their sovereign right, but it has the task of examining whether the correction falls within these categories of cases where we have reason to believe that the correction should be a matter of shared responsibility. I give you an example of such categories of cases where we have shared responsibility and when the contractor is de facto elected by the Supreme Administrative Court following an appeal procedure. Sopot Municipality has submitted a request to the Methodical Council, I admit, I cannot say whether, with regard to the older adjustment dating back to 2009 - 2010 or with regard to the new one - and it will rule within a month and a half. As for the legal proceedings, I do not have any information on a GPC case. Such cases are difficult to move under the APC, which is definitely a failure to pursue the interests of the institution concerned. Summarizing, the most important priority is the completion of the project. An incomplete, non-functioning project with unfulfilled objectives means that funding must be recovered, firstly, from the beneficiary, secondly, from the State to the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u46	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Genov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u47	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister Donchev, I have no doubt that you will not be able to answer this question. To what extent it has been comprehensive and with guarantees of desired and assumed corresponding responsibilities, is another topic. I guarantee you I'll keep following her. However, I would like to tell you that it is also within the authority of your portfolio to keep a close eye on such lousy beneficiaries in the country, as is the case with Sopot Municipality and its mayor, of course. At least two are the reasons for this. Another municipality is threatened by bankruptcy, it is practically bankrupt. The entire property of the municipality is in the order of a bailiff. Such a story I am convinced that you will share, too, has an extremely bad image of how our country absorbs European funds, which we hope very much. They are supposed to be 30-40% of the total amount required to carry out the Strategy in the water sector. After all, what will this signal be to European partners when there are cases with such municipalities? Doesn't the fact of the recurrence of these violations bother you? Will you refer to competent authorities outside those who have imposed the adjustments? You need to find and come up with a mechanism, yes, I know about the Methodical Council, but this is a very difficult case here. There is no reason to assume the adjustments by the State. I would like to remind you of one case with another municipality of Plovdiv Municipality of Sadovo, where the former mayor, who is already in prison, how a project for technical assistance via the chimney evaporated 1 million. BGN, literally disappeared. I hope Sopot does not follow it and it is your responsibility and commitment to really take measures not to increase this list of other municipalities. And if Sopot syndrome turned out to be out of control by the state, we had to ask the question, someone has to answer: why do they end up with a ministerial post with a portfolio of absorption of European funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u48	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u49	Dear Mr. Genov, I could not understand the last banter, but I fully share the concern in your tone with the municipalities that are in a similar situation. It is an undisputed fact that some of the financial corrections they suffer are due in one part of the cases to disadvantages in the award. It is a very difficult situation when we have a series of similar cases - one or two or three financial corrections. As a matter of fact, in a number of categories of cases, we have no reason to individualise responsibility for the final beneficiary. I give you an example: we have cases where a project has undergone a financial correction following unsynchronised legislation, which is rather the commitment of the National Assembly, the Council of Ministers and so on. I myself have had a lot of nervous conversations with the mayor of Sopot, but also I wouldn't label from here who is good and who is bad. I myself have attended meetings of the Sopot City Council, talking to the municipal councillors, offering them solutions that are applicable for one reason or another. Much of the proposals that were made at the time were not adopted by the relevant authorities of local self-government. They are independent, this is guaranteed by the Constitution. But together with you, I mean the National Assembly, we have the following responsibility.. This is largely related to the European Funds Act, which will be presented to your attention. When we have such violations and clear signs of individualisation of the blame, I can allow a relevant political leader, an employee, an administrative expert to be responsible for his political, administrative, if necessary criminal responsibility. I accept that! What I can't accept is the community that pays local taxes and fees to pay for someone else's mistakes. That's an unacceptable hypothesis. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u50	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and for participating in today's parliamentary control. The next question on the programme is to the Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin, but he has announced that some commitment has arisen with him and will be a little late. Wishing to improve the organisation of his work when he participates in parliamentary control, I think we can get into his situation. We move on to questions to Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov. The first question is from the National Representative Georgi Ivanov Andonov on grants for national tourist advertising. Here you are, Mr. Andonov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u51	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Dear Minister, my question is related to a very current topic regarding advertising in the sector of Tourism. By decision of 7 November 2014 the National Assembly adopted the structure of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and for the first time there is a separate Ministry of Tourism. This is a huge commitment by the Council of Ministers, in particular the Prime Minister, regarding this very serious and important sector for the economy. At all meetings with representatives of the branch organizations one of the most important topics and the most important issue to be raised is precisely the need to advertise Bulgaria as a tourist product and destination. The main commitment of the state is to conduct national advertising, agreed with the major tour operators working on target markets for Bulgaria, as well as the overall communication policy for positioning and promotion of Bulgaria as an attractive tourist destination. The allocated funds for national tourist advertising in this year's budget are just over 5 million. lv. For comparison, Mr. Minister, I just want to give you some data from neighbouring countries that have allocated a much bigger amount for marketing. In Hungary, for example, for advertising as a tourist destination, the value of the subsidy awarded is 13.6 million. EUR; in Greece, the money allocated for advertising is 11.5 million. EUR; 130 million in Turkey. EUR; in Poland there are 17 million. EUR; in the Czech Republic EUR, in Cyprus "23.2 million' Euros. My question is: do you think that the funds allocated against the backdrop of all the added value that it gives to the gross domestic product sector "Tourism" is sufficient? Do you think that more attention should be paid by the Ministry of Finance, in particular the Ministry of Tourism and the Council of Ministers in terms of increasing Bulgaria's advertising subsidy in the sector of Tourism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u52	Thank you, Mr. Andonov. The Minister of Finance Mr. Goranov has the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u53	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Andonov, the direct answer to whether I think it is enough is not enough. But since you've given statistics, I'm going to present a view to the Ministry of Finance. The Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 on the budgets of all ministries and offices included expenses which were traditionally planned under the central budget until 2014. The budget of the Ministry of Tourism for 2015 estimated 7 million. lv. for national tourist advertising, and by 2015, the funds for it were foreseen to the same amount, but under the central budget. So the funds from the state budget for this purpose are not reduced. Although the costs of advertising to certain countries provided in your question in nominal terms are significantly above those which set aside the Republic of Bulgaria, relevant as a percentage of gross domestic product are higher than those of Poland, the Czech Republic and Greece and lower than those of Hungary, Cyprus and Turkey. The rate of the cost of tourist advertising compared to the gross domestic product in Bulgaria is above the average level of the countries listed by you. For Cyprus, it is a major share of Bulgaria's share as a percentage of the gross domestic product and it is normal to invest in its advertising more than Bulgaria as a percentage of the gross domestic product. On the other hand, Greece's rate of growth is higher to gross domestic product than Bulgaria, but the cost of advertising as a percentage of gross domestic product is still below that of our country. Whether because of national tourist advertising or other factors, the number of tourists visiting our country has increased in recent years. It is within the competence of the Minister of Tourism to create an organization for effective spending of the planned funds so as to achieve maximum effect and to continue the trend for good performance of the Bulgarian tourism sector. Otherwise, in the most well-meaning tone, Mr. Andonov, not the Minister of Finance grants funds, but the National Assembly defines them with the annual State Budget Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u54	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Andonov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u55	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! I assumed that the answer to the question would be approximately to what you gave as data, especially in the final part that responsibility falls to the National Assembly. After all, the National Assembly has no function to draw up and implement a budget for the Republic of Bulgaria, is that correct? The idea of this issue was not to provoke any abuse or attitude towards the Minister of Finance, because indeed he, as treasurer, is obliged to respect what is voted by the National Assembly on the state budget, to be spent exactly the same amount. The idea of this issue, Minister, was to highlight the great need for Bulgaria to be advertised as a tourist product. Bulgaria has quite the capacity to develop as a tourist destination and the attention and commitment of the finance minister to the needs of this sector and to spend more money on advertising, I think it is important because it really decides what the parameters of the national budget are. I will be very pleased from now on the Minister of Finance, together with the Minister of Tourism and we, as MPs, to do everything possible for Bulgaria to set aside much of what it is now for advertising as a tourist destination. For me personally, this is one of the sectors that has great development capacity and one of the sectors that can add a lot to the country's gross domestic product. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u56	Thank you to Mr. Andonov. Mr. Minister, would you like a duplicate? No. We move on to the next question, again to Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov. Question from MP Martin Dimitrov about the system for automatic exchange of information between the DMV and the tax services. Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u57	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I remember, Mr. Goranov, your statements from a few days ago from this tribune, when you said that the finance minister is always the bad guy and other ministers often give out money and are good. With this question, I give you a chance to be a good example of reforms, to do something that has not been done for years in Bulgaria and to be in the other group - not the bad finance minister, but the minister, who, in his mandate with the ruling majority, has made a substantial modernisation of the administration. What's this about? If you buy or sell a car, you go to the DMV, you file all the necessary documents, there are big posters that say you don't have to go to the tax administration after that. Once in the DMV, the necessary documents, registration or registration in the tax office must be done in automatic mode. In the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block, we have received a number of complaints that this automatic regime, which is in words, is virtually gone. For this reason, Minister, I turn to you together to do a job that will be remembered by thousands of Bulgarian citizens, and to make sure that there is no need for the same service to go to one administration first, to submit all the documents, to wait in line, then for the same service to go to another administration, there to wait in line again. Let us introduce a regime of official movement of such files, of such information, so that Bulgarian citizens do not need to spend their time several times on a service that should happen in an automatic mode and way and for which the higher state services should exchange official information. My insistent question, Mr. Goranov, is for you within the framework of your mandate to support and take the necessary action for the whole country, not just for Sofia, not to have such a necessity and once a person goes to the DMV, registering or deregistered the car, from then on to work. At the moment, it's not just this modern service that's not working, it's worse that people are being misled. They go to the DMV Sofia, look on the wall the big poster that they do not need to go to the tax office, but then it turns out that they do not get the tax and later they go to the tax office because they see that the service does not happen. That is, not only do we not have relief for citizens, but they are misled and not receiving notice of the tax due, it turns out that the system as a whole does not function adequately. Mr. Goranov, it is up to you to be able to say from this platform that measures will be taken for modern administration, to reduce bureaucracy, not to waste people's time and receive fast services. This can be done with your cooperation. You can support the administration in Sofia and throughout the country this service is happening this way. Then you will make sure that the Minister of Finance can be a reformer, can introduce successful modern practices and can, like other ministers, claim work done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u58	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. I would just like to address fellow Members of the Parliament who are asking questions to respect the Rules of Procedure, I am tolerant, I leave 20.. 30 seconds on top, but no more, because in this way there will be questions that will not be answered. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u59	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Dimitrov, thank you for the question and the opportunity to say that for many years there has been a centralized information system related to the collection of local taxes and fees and improving the activities of municipalities in this sense. The Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees adopted changes in force from 1 January 2015. They introduced a new regime with regard to the declaration and determination of the vehicle tax. The main objective of the change, on the one hand, is to reduce the administrative burden and the costs of businesses and citizens, and the administrative costs of municipalities, on the other hand, is to increase the revenues of municipal budgets by preventing the possibility of undeclared vehicles acquired and tax evasion on vehicles. Electronic services shall be used for the implementation of the new mode for the automatic exchange of information on registered, assigned and stopped road vehicles, including environmental category information. On a daily basis, the Ministry of Interior shall provide by electronic means to the Ministry of Finance the data from the register of road vehicles provided by the Ministry of Finance to the municipalities by means of a built and functioning automated system between the Ministry and the respective municipality or by electronic means on a monthly basis. The municipalities shall receive in real time the information on registered road vehicles as well as the data necessary for determining the amount of tax, power and engine volume, the vehicle production rate, the total weight, the number of seating positions, the technically permissible maximum power, the number of axles and the type of suspension. Upon receipt of the information from the municipality concerned, the amount of tax due shall be determined by an employee of the municipal administration on the basis of the data from the register of road vehicles and shall be communicated to the taxable person. It should be noted that according to the provision of art. 54, para. 3 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees is reserved the obligation to submit a declaration for the acquisition of road vehicles in the following hypotheses: - the road vehicle is inherited; - the road vehicle is owned by more than one person; - the owner or owners of the road vehicle does not have or do not have a permanent address, respectively, based on the territory of the country; - there are grounds for granting the right to exemption from tax or the use of tax relief; - there are grounds for using tax exemptions, except for the relief under art. 59, para. 2 and 3 where there is data on the environmental category of the vehicle in the register. I assume that it is possible and we will analyse, and we will work in this direction to remove some of these exceptions, but perhaps the problems of some citizens in the municipalities are related to these hypotheses of exceptions, which I have quoted to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u60	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u61	Dear Minister, I am pleased with your answer, but you need to carry out a check to establish the following. It is about Sofia, where it should be and I am convinced that it has the most quality administration, because the city is large and has more employees. People who have been at the DMV and have deregistered their cars or bought a new car, it turns out that they should then also visit the tax administration to repeat the submission of the same documents, although by law you said that there are only a few exceptions. For all other cases, there is no requirement after they have registered in the DMV or have deregistered the car to visit the tax administration. I suggest that you check every 50th of cases in order to see that this service needs your assistance to become operational. To support the administration not only in Sofia, but also throughout the country the service to become modern, working and Bulgarian citizens to understand that there is no sense to physically walk in several offices, and the information will be moved through a service path as it is written in the law, but at the moment this is not being implemented. Unfortunately, there is no fulfillment of these norms, so I'm counting on you. This is a topic in which, in time, you will be able to say that you have made this reform, of course, with the support of the majority, and have made it work. Unfortunately, she's not working right now. People who have deregistered their car to the DMV complain that they continue to receive tax returns for due tax, even interest. You can on a sample basis do a check and make sure that there is a need for your actions in this direction to do the service that is in the law really works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u62	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u63	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. You have rightly noted that the process is administered by local tax and tax offices to municipalities which are independent functionally and methodologicalally by the Ministry of Finance, respectively by the Minister. I make a commitment to inform Sofia Municipality and Mayor Yordanka Fandakova personally of the problems noted. However, we must take into account that this is a good measure that is starting very soon, and I hope it will settle down and fit in with the topics so that the individual territorial units of the local taxes and fees system, i.e. the individual territorial offices of the local administration, do not have problems. I'm committed to the Sofia Municipality to examine the specific case and what it is about. Just to remind you that years ago, until the current team of Sofia Municipality took over the commitment to implement the free and supported by the Ministry of Finance system for local taxes and fees, you could not go and pay the tax in a separate territorial unit. The steps are in the right direction. Thank you for provoking me to explain this. I'll ask Mrs. Fandakova to check how the mechanism works. If there are weaknesses associated with the intermediate function of the Ministry of Finance, which we are currently performing, I assure you, they will be removed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u64	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next final question to Finance Minister Goranov. The issue is from the MPs Stefan Georgiev Kenov and Rumen Marinov Yonchev concerning non-compliance in the provision of state aid vouchers with a reduced excise rate on gas oil used in primary agricultural production using a fuel vouchers system. Mr. Kenov, come in, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Our question is caused by the fact that farmers were accused of being the country's main fuel traders. He is also in connection with correspondence, from a letter to Mrs. Rumyana Angelova, Chairman of the Management Board of the National Association of Grain Producers in Bulgaria. No 15-50 of 26 January this year to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food it becomes clear that a total of 151 million were claimed during the first stage of the aid. Ninety-seven thousand. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. I gas for the whole year. A simple account of the acres of arable land gives the result that this is the correct account. At the same time, however, in the data provided by the National Revenue Agency, which responds by letter to Mrs. Angelova, with exh. No 15-00-2 of 30 January 2015, it is claimed that in 2014 farmers received fuel vouchers of 983.5 million. L under the reduced excise duty rate scheme for gas oil. There's obviously a huge difference. As the aid is provided in the form of pre-set fuel vouchers and nominal value, please answer the following questions. How many vouchers are printed and how many are distributed? Where is the difference and who has acquired the value of the excise duty over 700 million? Is it gas? We ask you to provide us with a list of the farmers who received the vouchers and the quantity they received. To our question, we have applied the cited written documents from the National Revenue Agency and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u66	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. Mr. Secretary for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u67	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Kenov! I don't see Mr. Yonchev. Since 1 January 2014, a new tax reference has been introduced on the gas oil rate, used in primary agricultural production using a fuel voucher system. The reference is a scheme for the support of farmers registered under the Agricultural Support Act and introduced in national legislation by amendments to the Law on the Support of Farmers and the Law on excises and tax warehouses. According to the provision of art. 47b of the Agricultural Support Act the total nominal value of vouchers (the total value of State aid) is validated by the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for the relevant year. With the provision of art. 58 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014 under the 2014 State aid scheme were established fuel vouchers for farmers at a total nominal value of up to 84 million. lv. It should be noted that regardless of the quantity of fuel declared and used by farmers, the total value of the excise duty on fuel vouchers shall not exceed 84 million. lv. The amount of fuel only affects the value of the discount per liter of fuel with smaller amounts of the discount is higher, when increasing the amount it decreases because its total amount cannot exceed 84 million. lv. State aid shall be granted in the form of fuel vouchers with a fixed quantity of fuel and nominal value. In accordance with art. 47k of the Agricultural Aid Act is a voucher publisher, notice, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Fuel vouchers shall be made available to farmers in two stages: after submitting a declaration setting an initial and final individual quota per model established by the Minister for Agriculture and Food. According to the provision of art. 47l of the Agricultural Aid Act The Ministry of Agriculture and Food establishes and maintains an electronic register for providing farmers with fuel vouchers. The relevant information on the questions you have asked about the printed and issued fuel vouchers to farmers for 2014 could be obtained from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. According to the provision of art. 5, para. 1 of the State Aid Act, the Minister of Finance is the national authority responsible for monitoring, transparency and coordination of State aid at national, regional and municipal level, with the exception of aid schemes and individual aid in the field of agriculture and fisheries. The Minister for Agriculture and Food is the administrator of the State aid scheme. You are quoting a letter from the National Revenue Agency, which has not been applied here, but I opened it and saw that it also refers to data from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. We can continue to examine this non-compliance, but all information relating to the support of farmers for the use of fuels at a reduced excise rate in your question is according to the Ministry of Agriculture, although one of the letters quoted the National Revenue Agency, which also refers to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u68	Thank you, Mr. Goranov. Mr. Kenov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u69	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! After all, from what was given as correspondence to the Association of Grain Producers in Bulgaria, we thought that the letter from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food had correct data. What was disturbing was the NRA's correspondence, and that's why we asked you, Mr. Goranov. We also considered that if there are abuses inside the Ministry, you as an authority should control through the NRA how these vouchers were distributed. It is clear from our own checks that the vouchers scheme, without any legal basis, was clearly a practice over time. I appeal to you with the following request: to really follow this process, if possible more accurately through the National Revenue Agency. Otherwise, my question with the name reference will also be asked to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u70	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. Will you use the right of the coat, Mr. Minister? Those were your questions. Thank you for your answers and I wish you a pleasant job. We are going to answer questions from MPs to the Minister of Economy Mr. Bozidar Lukarski. The first question is from the MP Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov on the economic development of the districts Targovishte and Shumen. Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members, my question is focused on the economic development of the districts of Shumen and Targovishte, as statistics show that in 2018, this will be one of the districts of the country with the least economic development, the weakest growth of the economy. By 2020, the districts of Silistra, Shumen and Targovishte are expected to be following Vidin on a salary, as well as on an economic perspective for the population and so on. It is in this regard that I ask you the question: what is the Ministry of Economy doing in the direction of development of the respective regions? Here perhaps you should have better communication with Mrs. Pavlova, who is also a minister in this cabinet, because we are seriously risking losing purely economic and already demographically relevant regions because of their depopulation. Thank you. I'll develop the second part after the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u72	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u73	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Alexandrov, overcoming regional disproportions and promoting economic growth in abandoned regions are one of the key priorities of the government and the Ministry of Economy. The Ministry is working on a number of measures to stimulate the Bulgarian economy, the effect of which should reflect on the regions you have designated. The programme developed by us includes several main priorities aimed at improving the business environment and reducing the administrative burden, for business to breathe more freely and for administration to assist it without creating additional regimes and obstacles. This is important because the conditions in which business works are a major factor in its competitiveness. Another of our top priorities is putting emphasis on small and medium-sized enterprises, including in these regions, by providing for the promotion of exports by improving the access of small and medium-sized businesses to third-party markets. The expansion of the international positions of the Bulgarian companies is our priority, and during the new programming period the Bulgarian enterprises will be able to benefit from a number of support measures within the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness." Improving the new operational programme is on schedule and it should be noted that a territorial approach is envisaged for regions with backward development. The notes from the European Commission are reflected. We expect official approval of the operational programme in this month. In particular, for the regions you have viewed. Investments in municipalities with high unemployment, as there are in the districts of Shumen and Targovishte, are promoted as a priority under the Investment Promotion Act. For example, in order to obtain an investment class certificate for the use of incentive measures, a lower amount of the investment is applied compared to the requirement in the general case. The incentive measures under the Investment Promotion Act include the accelerated deadlines for the provision of administrative services, the acquisition of state or municipal property under light conditions, financial support for infrastructure, training of staff, and the partial reimbursement of compulsory social contributions. In such municipalities, under the Corporate Income Tax Act, investors may also enjoy the possibility of being passed on to them up to 100% of the corporate tax payable for investing in new production activities. Within the framework of the common policy on the promotion of investment, an extension of these opportunities to promote investment processes in regions with higher unemployment, such as the less developed regions you have seen, is to be initiated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u74	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Alexandrov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I thank you very much for the casion response and for explaining the legal procedures, as well as what is written in the laws. But it's a real question of what we're going to do, because I've said it before in this room, and I'm going to say it, and now the people of this whole citation won't understand anything. They want to know whether there will be any economic development or no economic development, how we will fight unemployment and real measures to combat this unemployment. If you're going to go out and say, "Audi" can come for example to make a plant in Northwestern Bulgaria, say, for example: "BMW" can come to make a plant in Eastern Bulgaria. I expect something of this kind from you, because indeed in these regions the situation is very bad. If we're going to invest in infrastructure, that's great! These areas there, including Varna, need very large investments in infrastructure. If we're going to stimulate exports, we're going to export what from there, because the question is to produce it first to export it. And therefore, what are these third countries to which we are going to export? At the moment we have closed economic Russia, which is a market of 150 million people, a huge market, we have closed it for export of our goods. Where are we going? Who are these third countries that will want it? Understand that in these regions in the near future it will really be very tragic if I can call it the economic situation of people. And if we do not adopt measures from now on in this government and actually approach with reforms in the sector of the economy, we will achieve nothing but to depopulate them and those people really have no other economic alternative in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u76	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u77	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Alexandrov! Speaking of third countries, and third countries are all outside the European Union, not just Russia. Since you say the answer to the question is casion, you obviously didn't listen carefully. The answer contains all the types of measures that the Bulgarian economy and in particular the Ministry of Economy should develop not only for the region you see. It is part of Bulgaria. These measures will be for this region and Bulgaria. That, as you say, that, although a contract has not been signed, will invest in Northwestern Bulgaria, of course, does not interfere. We are fighting everywhere, in all the backward regions, not only in the Northwest, not only in Northeastern Bulgaria, and in Strandzha the situation is not much more colorful. We fight for the whole country the same. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u78	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to the Minister of Economy Mr. Lukarski is from the National Representative Georgi Todorov Bozhinov on the construction of Sofia Tech Park, funded by Operational Program "Competitiveness." Here you are, Mr. Bojinov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! In my written question, I find that there has been extremely active work lately on this large site. I note that the deadline is 16 November 2015. And I specify my question as follows: will this object complete within the specified time limit? How and in what direction will work on this grand project continue? Dear Minister, I am asking the question to you because you are the representative of the sole owner of the capital in this company. I know from your predecessor that there are 10 such parks in Europe and only three are successful. Others to one extent or another have not justified their creation. It's not your idea of a park like this. The idea is of a prominent Bulgarian builder, so as not to say entrepreneur. To be completely honest, the real goals, three in one, are as follows. First of all, do not miss out on some 312 acres of gold for construction terrains. Secondly, a very specific range of individuals and companies to absorb huge amounts under the Programme "Competitiveness" for the Bulgarian economy. And thirdly, the same circle of individuals and companies after building the assets to manage them, control them and possibly benefit. In recent months, it has been extremely active because the deadline is what I have indicated. 50 public procurements were carried out, in December only 14, for three days in January "17." Orders for the airline tickets have already been won. BGN, for the security of 630 thousand. BGN, for any consulting services, administrative, financial, economical, all more than 200 000. lv. Orders have been made for events, events. I have no concern that this money will be used, including that the five thousand baseball hats will be delivered, the ten thousand pens and so on. The concern is for those 64 million people who have entered into a construction contract on the engineering principle of design and construction. If they are not completed by this date, the costs are not verified and the money is not received, we will have to lose them from the European Union, pay them most probably from the debt and most likely from those who are listening to us and looking at us right now, and from those who no longer want to listen to us and look at a serious problem. That's why I'm asking you, are you going to say hard, or are you not going to? Will this project end on November 16th? And if you say yes, what will this collection of glass, concrete and iron be doing and what will be different there than what could be done more rationally in the Institutes of BAS, in the laboratories and buildings of the technical institutions of Bulgaria, if we effectively use the resource under the Programme "Competitiveness"? These are the two nuances of my question, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u80	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Mr. Secretary for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u81	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bojinov, I will answer the question as you have asked it by the rules, without two shades. If you want, the second shade is in your line, and I'll give you an answer in the back. The implementation of the project "Sofia Tech Park" is in line with the approved graphic plan. Staff selections have been carried out and the project implementation team has been set up. The activities related to the feasibility studies and the preparation of documents for the construction of the sites are completed. The clearing of the site of the site is over. The contracts were concluded with the selected contractors after the public procurements for the six engineering projects, on the 49 million total project. 447 thousand. BGN 148. At present, the following sites are being built: the Plovdiv Technical Infrastructure and Park, the Incubator, the Innovation Forum and the Laboratory, the Museum/Experimentarium and the Visitor Center with a pedestrian bridge. All engineering contracts have a deadline for execution of 430 days and the latest date for transmission is that of the site of the Floor Parking on 14 November 2015. The teams of the Managing Authority of the Operational Program and of the beneficiary Sofia Tech Park JSC coordinate the work of the contractors in the engineering of the sites under the project "Student Engineering Park", in part "Project" and the technical activities in part "Structural and installation activities." Monthly working meetings shall be held. Objects shall be constructed in accordance with linear construction schedules as set out in the Programme. In parallel, open procurement for the supply of specialized equipment for research and development in the laboratory complex is under way. The delivery of equipment, facilities and software is intended to occur through 33 open, according to the methodology of the Public Procurement Act, procedures for selecting a contractor of a total value of around 20 million. lv. About the future development of this project. In the Strategy of the new Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" "2014" and in the financial justification for the allocation of aid under thematic objectives and investment priorities, special attention is paid to the support for the development of a favourable environment and infrastructure for research and innovation for business needs. In this regard, the new programming period will provide an opportunity for support in the field of innovation activities of enterprises, including the upgrade of the project "Sofia Tech Park". The Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" 2014 " 2020" also provides funds related to research activities, which will develop the teams of the consortium, including Sofia University "Kliment Ohridski". Answer to the second nuance of your question, Technical University, Medical University and BAS. This is all within the Science Park. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u82	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Bozhino, the line. You've got two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u83	Dear Minister, I will give you two documents. One is the written text of the question to see that in the same sentence I ask you, there are both nuances: will you complete by 16 November everything as a condition to be paid with European money and not spend 100 million of the debt paid by the Bulgarian people? And the second part of the sentence is, what are you going to do in this spectacular object? There he is. I'll give it to you to read that there's nothing different. Secondly, I will present to you a journalistic investigation of a very worthy journalist Svetla Vasileva, who has brought out all the dependencies between the persons appointed not by you, but before you, who will lead this grand project without competition and the winning dozens of public procurement companies tied in their prehistory and business life in order to understand how right I am when I tell you that the real goal is not the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy, but the absorption of huge funds under a well-thought scheme without looking for that socially significant result for the Bulgarian society and economy. And this is Bulgaria's most massive trouble today. Masterpiece in the absorption of the money without looking for the socially significant result of them. Who is this prominent builder? This is the person Rosen Plevneliev, who said in 2012 in the United States: I started painting personally the masterplan of Sofia Tech Park! Few people in Bulgaria understand these things. I've already done them. You know what are the other two projects in which he so largely mastered public resources and a lot of money. He, in the words of your predecessor, Minister of Service Assen Vassilev, is the main driver of this project. It is good to read the material, to see the links between the companies and the people who absorb this money, to sit with the new Minister of the Interior and Mrs Kuneva, who is developing the Anti-Corruption Strategy, and to see how not one but hundreds of millions, without corruption, are going somewhere without being able to judge someone because everything is planned. [[The National Representative Georgi Bojinov submitted a folder of documents to Minister Bozhidar Lukarski: "Here, see these things. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u84	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Minister Lukarski's hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u85	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bojinov, I think I answered specifically to Your question. Thank you for your research, but I'm paying attention to you, and I told you what kind of activity it's going to be. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Sofia Tech Park is not just a building. The aim is for this technology park to become an infrastructure with the appropriate capacity to attract international, regional, local scientists, researchers, innovative enterprises, setting an example and creating conditions for the knowledge economy in Bulgaria. The scientific and technological park should support the competitiveness of science and entrepreneurship in Bulgaria by improving the exchange of knowledge between academic circles and business community, supporting start-ups and innovative ideas, catalizing the process of commercialization of research. I'm paying attention to you again. We're not talking about just construction and simple buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u86	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Bozidar Lukarski is once again from the National Representative Georgi Todorov Bojinov regarding the participation of the Ministry of Economy in the preparation of the Indicative list for the country's participation in the competition for the allocation of funds under the "Competitiveness and Employment" "The Juncker Plan." Mr. Bojinov, I just want to remind you to stick to the rules. The first question I took the liberty of extending the time due to your interesting question, but please, there are still other colleagues waiting. You have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This issue concerns Bulgaria's opportunity and chance to participate in the race for the distribution of 315 billion. EUR in order to increase the competitiveness of the European economy and employment in the Member States of the European Union. I asked it, Minister, when I saw what list of projects Bulgaria intends to participate with. This list has sparked condescending smiles in Europe's bureaucracy to prevent me from saying anything more severe, so I took the liberty of asking you something I already know for sure today. And my question was: was the Ministry of Economy involved in preparing a preliminary list of projects with which the state intends to participate in this contest? There are no guaranteed quotas for Bulgaria. Only the competitiveness of projects fighting for competitiveness of the economy will give us a share Or not. I just want to point out that on this list, I noticed seven projects to close the depots. You understand that it has nothing to do with the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy, and that is why I believe that you in these days after my question on this indicative list will already have intervened and imported new projects, competitive, integrated including science, the country's natural resources, the potential, the possibility of including public finances, private funds, money from EU funds, which enables the project itself to logic. I'd like to hear from you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u88	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u89	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bojinov, I want to thank you for your question. I fully share your view that the projects with which Bulgaria participates in the so-called "Plan Juncker" must meet the needs of the business, the current economic environment and competitiveness. On 13 January 2015, the European Commission presented the legislative proposal on the creation of the European Fund for Strategic Investments. At present, a special working group with representatives from all Member States shall specify the specific provisions of the draft regulation and it is expected to be approved by the middle of the year. The Bulgarian country is represented by the Ministry of Finance, which is the coordinating office at institutional level for Bulgaria. The Ministry of Economy is actively involved in all the formats in which national positions on the European Fund for Strategic Investments are discussed and drawn up. As you suggested, at its first operational meeting in November 2014, the current Council of Ministers approved a list of projects to be submitted for finalisation by the European Fund for Strategic Investments. I would immediately like to clarify that the Bulgarian government had to react within a day when the deadline for the presentation of these projects expired. We therefore believe that this list is not comprehensive and final. In this sense, the Ministry of Economy has taken action to select projects that at the same time meet both the nature of the instruments and objectives of the Juncker Plan, as well as the needs that you have highlighted the needs of Bulgaria and of Bulgarian business and the typical environment for Bulgaria. In particular, the projects proposed by the Ministry of Economy to complement the initial and already proposed and approved by the Council of Ministers list are three: Stara Zagora Airport. Its development as an international air and cargo centre connecting Asia with Europe; Trakiya................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... All three projects are a combination of the components that you said and provide for a public-private partnership.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u90	Thank you to Minister Lukarski. Mr. Bozhino, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u91	Dear Minister, for this answer I would like to thank you. And thank you for that, too, because when I asked you this question a month ago and something, you sent your associate. We discussed the reasons for the issue and the opportunities for Bulgaria to have another behavior and another list. And that does you honor. This man is standing on the balcony, this man I see now. That's good, these are already different projects from what was sent to the first list. By the way, in a conversation with the Prime Minister and he reacted adequately and said: "Abe, this is such an indicative list. Let's see what we're going to do. Under the label, the development of the economy, based on knowledge, money was going for the following works. I apologize for reading it, but it is like this: Chewing gum, candy, flying saucers, virtual shopping malls. I'll stop there. And just what the money was going to finance a favorable business environment. It's made up here to have the word "cluster." When the man hears it, he can slap his head and say, "Well, they make clusters here!" Should I read?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u92	You have thirty more seconds to read.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u93	I won't read them, Mr. Chairman. They're ridiculous. Therefore, Mr. Minister, I congratulate you that as a result of this dialogue there are developments of new projects that are more competitive. And my first question was that this 100 million is going to waste. It's not concrete, iron and glass. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences' laboratories, the empty technical vouses, the potential there, according to these principles, a private-public, public-private partnership can go much more efficiently. Two hundred companies at 500 thousand. BGN, if you had given them the lead, it would have had an effect instead of a construction miracle at the entrance of Sofia, but let's talk like this in order to have results.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u94	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. The next question to the Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski is from the MPs Hristo Georgiev Gajev and Alexander Rumenov Nenkov, about the policy of the economy to promote entrepreneurship and the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u95	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! The main element of our economy is small and medium-sized enterprises. By facilitating the procedures for starting your own business and stimulating entrepreneurship can really quickly achieve the development of economic activity in the country, which in turn will lead to so desired growth. Such a policy is also in line with the policies carried out at European level by the European Parliament and the Commission, which aims to promote the competitiveness of the entire European economy. Particular attention must also be paid to measures to promote youth employment and even more, in particular, to youth entrepreneurship. The opportunities for providing information on the creation of a business plan, facilitating the registration procedures of companies, on how to create your own business, in a nutshell, could contribute much more to the very creation of such companies. This could complement the development of the economy, but mostly overcome in the case of young people the fear of failure that stops them from starting their own business and trying to develop their future here. It should also be noted that one of the biggest obstacles to business development in the country is the administrative burden that small and medium-sized companies experience, especially those who start their business. In this regard is also our question with colleague Nenkov: what measures does the Ministry of Economy envisage to stimulate entrepreneurship and especially when starting their own business? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u96	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Mr. Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u97	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gazhev, dear Mr. Nenkov! I don't see Mr. Nenkov here. I would like to begin by thanking you for this question, because it is extremely clear. Entrepreneurship support is also being provided at the moment, with more than 150 start-ups being financed under the initiative, and over 300 new jobs being created. It is precisely in support of entrepreneurship and small and medium-sized business with the new Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness " 2014 " 2020" provided funds worth 114.3 million. Euros. This resource will be provided within the investment priority.Access to financing in support of the entrepreneurship and will implement two measures: Development of financial instruments in support of the entrepreneurship............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ EUR, and Risk Capital Fund Euros. The funds will provide start-up capital or capital for start-up enterprises and those located in early stages of development, promoting entrepreneurial ideas in areas related to European and regional challenges and the sectors of the National Strategy for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises by providing grants amounting to 34,3 million. Euros. Support will be given to innovative enterprises suppliing new products and services. Support is also envisaged for ideas that will be realized by women entrepreneurs, start-up entrepreneurs. Pay attention to people up to the age of 29 and for people over the age of 50 who start their own business. In addition, one of the priorities of our Ministry is encouraging the introduction of the dual education system. This form of training will not only be able to prepare young people better for the labour market, but will give them practical skills and knowledge to start their own business. We will also stimulate entrepreneurship through implementation of reforms which, as recorded in the Government Programme, will shorten the registration period for own business to 3 days, and the issuance of all licenses and permits to 1 month. In addition, in order to end the bad practice of honor and unwanted change of regulations, to the detriment of small business, the Ministry of Economy has prepared a concept for an SME test and has come up with a proposal for amendments to the Law on Regulatory Acts in this regard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u98	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gazhev, you're entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I am very pleased with the answer you have given, especially in the part about the creation of entrepreneurship development funds, as one of the main problems that stands also especially in front of young people who are trying to start their business is the lack of finances that help them to start their business. The CD capital is a very important part, as well as the dual system itself, as our education system is currently preparing theoretically very well staffed, but practically, at times not. The combination of practical experience and scientific knowledge always results in much better results. I would also like to ask you: are there any specific measures envisaged for this year that would start to develop as early as 2015? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u100	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. It's a hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u101	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gazhev, thank you, and I will make the following clarification. Currently, the Ministry is implementing four projects to promote entrepreneurship and training in entrepreneurship, which are: the project "Start" and the project "Brandico", "Th13teen Arts" and the project "Technostart." They aim to create training companies in different schools, to encourage students to create their own brands and to protect them as Community brands, an extremely valuable practice that facilitates the entry of the single market into real business life. The results of the above projects are that 20 training enterprises have been created so far and have been trained or are in the process of training a total of around 1900 students from all over the country. So far, 28 enterprises have been included in the "Th13teen Arts" for two consecutive years. The project funded the creation of 19 start-ups by Bulgarian students with a total value of nearly 400 thousand. lv. The aim is to promote the creation of new enterprises in priority sectors, namely from young people, which is the issue. Since Mr. Bozhinoff is here, I'm using the case, as I'm going to say something about the previous question. In April this year, we are going to hold a working meeting with the Vice-President of the European Commission and Commissioner with a portfolio of working places, growth, investment and competitiveness. Within the framework of his visit, we will have the opportunity to discuss co-operation on the extremely important topics such as growth, investment, competitiveness, including specific projects under the Juncker Plan and application guidelines. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]] We'll invite you, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u102	Thank you, Mr. Lukarski. This was the last question to the Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski. Thank you. I wish him a good job. We move on to the next issues, which are eight in number, to the Minister of Defence Mr. Nikolay Nenchev. The first question to the Minister of Defence is from the National Representative Metodi Borisov Andreev on granting civil control over the service. Here you are, Mr. Andreev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, the question I am asking is actually a second series of questions. Such a question has also been asked in the pò previous parliament when the people representative Ivan Nikolaev Ivanov asked your predecessor Anyu Angelov what is the command and management staff of the service and how many servicemen and officers are in this command staff who worked in the same service before 1991? The answer that Mr. Ivanov received at the time is: 44% of the general command staff of the Office of Military Information at 2012 were people who were also in this office before the date in question, from which the so-called....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The idea of this question to both questions that I will now ask you is to see in these years of transition how our services, especially the intelligence and security services, have changed their professional staff, their officer staff, because it is very important to know what the motivation of the people who work there is. When some people have been trained on some security systems and some security rules, and when the state's course and the political direction for the work of these services are officially changed, they should also be people who are taking more and more people who share this course, who have relevant qualities and skills. You mean looking for young people. Such people with languages, with computer skills, with good education there is now. And here's my two questions. What is the rate of officers in the service "Military information" who, to date, occupy command, leadership positions and were appointed before 16 July 1991 in this service? And the second question: what is the percentage of the officers in the command staff of the service who passed special schools in the former Soviet Union?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u104	Thank you. Mr. Minister, for your answer, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u105	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Andreev, the questions were specific and clear, and I will answer in the same way very briefly. Officers who currently hold senior positions in the service "Military information" and were appointed before 16 July 1991 is 39% of the Board of Directors of the Office. And on the second question, 6% of this group has gone through special schools in the former Soviet Union. I dare assure you that I, too, am deeply concerned by this state of affairs at the Office. 39 per cent is a very serious percentage and is clearly twice as much as the Commission's published data on other intelligence services. I want to assure you, as you understand yourself, I also need your support that in this Office it is necessary to carry out a very serious reform.. something that I have already started, we have concrete ideas in this direction. I have had conversations with young officers and I must assure you that you have hinted in your question, we have extremely well prepared young boys and girls who could assume responsibility for the future of the Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u106	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u107	Mr. Minister, I have no doubt about your intentions and I fully support them. I'll just tell you that Mr. Veselin Ivanov, the head of the service, is one of those 39% people. In fact, I have a very interesting document about how Mr. Veselin Ivanov, Chief of Staff, received a Sofia residence. This has happened through the assistance of the member of the Politburo and Secretary of the Central Committee of the Bulgarian Communist Party, Comrade Milko Balev. Here's the document. [[shows him]] , declassified by the Bureau of Records. And I wonder how in 2015 a service that works in a NATO member state, a member of the European Union, could have a chief who has received a Sofia residence from a member of the Politburo of the CCP of the BCP Mr. Milko Balev! The rest I leave without comment. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u108	Mr. Minister, would you like a duplicate? You don't want to. The second question to the Minister of Defence Mr. Nenchev is from the national representative Petar Vladislavov Slavov on the maintenance costs of aircraft fighters from the Air Force and the possibility of acquiring new modern aircraft meeting NATO standards. Here you are, Mr. Slavov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Mr. Chairman, as you mentioned, my question concerns the Bulgarian Air Force and the fighters who are still armed there and who have been armed since the time of the Soviet Union. My question is this. Dear Minister, recently the commander of the Bulgarian Air Force alarmed that due to the lack of funds for costly repairs of the morally outdated fighters, MIG-29s, which are being repaired in Russia...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u110	Colleagues, I'm gonna have to ask you to be quiet in this room. It's nice of you to attend parliamentary control, but I'm asking you to follow the order. Excuse me, Mr. Slavov. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u111	Recently, the commander of the Bulgarian Air Force alarmed that due to the lack of funds for costly repairs of the morally outdated fighters, MIG 29s, which are being carried out in Russia, there is a real danger that Bulgarian military aircraft will remain with only two fully operational fighters after May 2015. At the same time, according to experts' estimates, the amount needed to support aircraft that have been armed since the former Soviet Union will amount to more than 1.6 billion. lv. By 2020. For the same amount, again under expert assessment, a whole squadron of 16 less-used or even new fighters meeting all NATO requirements, whose support will be tens of times lower could be purchased. Just for comparison, I would point out that if, for one MiG-29, every 300 hours, it needs to be replaced with basic components of the engine, in modern fighters, the hours are nearly 3,000, i.e. 10 times longer, without such serious repairs, respectively the costs for it. An additional argument for acquiring new and small-used fighters according to NATO standards to replace the morally outdated MiGs from the USSR's time is that the latter are being repaired in Russia, which is further hampered by the imposed sanctions by the European Commission and the demonstration of the freezing of co-operation with NATO. In this regard, Dear Minister, I ask you to answer the following question: how much is it expected to cost for maintenance and repair of the aircraft fighters by 2029 and is the Ministry of Defence's management to acquire within these funds and, in the case of a deferred payment, new or less used new combat planes to meet all NATO requirements and whose reliability will be repeatedly higher and the maintenance will be much lower? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u112	Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u113	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Slavov, first of all, I must admit that your findings in the question you asked are accurate. It is true that there is a serious problem in the Air Force with the airworthiness of the fighters - MiG-29s and MiG-21s, respectively, with the provision of combat duty within the framework of NATO's integrated air defense. Under certain circumstances, it may indeed be that we soon have only two aircraft capable of carrying combat duty. I mean, for the rest of us, there's going to be a drain of the engine's resources, and the aircraft's unit. Since the issue of years is directly related to the number of flights and flight hours, you yourselves understand that we are in an unenviable position as well as to pilot flight training. Last but not least, I would like to point out another circumstance that relates to what has been said so far. Due to the lack of financial resources, we are experiencing serious difficulties with the supply of spare parts and the repair of available radar facilities. Of course, these are all problems that have accumulated over the years. Today, the changed strategic security environment and the need for modernization of the Bulgarian Army requires that they be resolved forward-lookingly through long-term planning and through the implementation of the project principle. Yes, the repairs on the available MiGs are expensive and expensive, and you're right here. That is also the number you have quoted.. 1.6 billion. lv. We will have their support by 2029 on this matter at the Ministry of Defense, and we have detailed estimates. I also have them in case you show interest and ask for more information, I am ready to provide them to you. In relation to all of this, I think the most correct solution is to follow what is set out in the National Programme "Bulgaria in NATO" and "Search Defense 2020" and in particular that part of it, which refers to the rearming and rearming of the MIG-29s with a new fighter plane in line with NATO standards, as well as the delivery of the highly needed modern 3D-radars as part of the integrated air defense. I can assure you that the Ministry of Defense has already prepared an investment project to acquire a new fighter aircraft squadron. I have already had the opportunity to announce that he along with eight other projects, including the Project for acquiring new 3D-radars, will be submitted to the Council of Ministers. In a positive decision by the government, the projects will be included in the Program for development of the defence capabilities of the Armed Forces by 2020, which will be submitted for consideration and possibly adopted by the National Assembly. There's obviously going to be some kind of transition period. This means that for a while longer we will have to maintain and do our best to implement the necessary support for the MIG 29. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u114	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line, Mr. Slavov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, thank you for your honest and honest answer. I use the possibility of a replica to draw attention in practice and to the fact that perhaps there may also be thought of possible cooperation and possible support from our Euro-Atlantic partners to acquire similar aircraft in one form or another, and why not in the form of a donation to us on their part, because the situation is obviously severe. At least the simple economic logic suggests that it is absurd to spend such a colossal amount on repair and maintenance of morally outdated fighters who are, on top of everything else, not well compatible with NATO's military aviation. At the same time, in 2029 their residual resource will virtually expire completely and they will be absolutely useless. I am glad that the Ministry of Defence is seriously considering the problem and how in practice this morally outdated technique should be replaced in the best way for the Bulgarian taxpayer. I am using the case to ask you, as the question has been asked a long time ago, but since then you have been on a visit to Poland, where the subject of possible repair is being commented there or for renting engines for My request is if you could say here: is there any possibility of reducing maintenance costs, because as far as I know, only for this year, if nothing is taken other than usual, nearly 30 million of the planned capital repairs of the Ministry of Defence will have to be given for only five of these virtually morally outdated fighters.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u116	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u117	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Slavov, your findings are absolutely accurate. Just to express one disagreement, you say they are not particularly adapted to NATO standards. Not particularly, and they're not adapted at all. This is one of the serious problems. As to the question of whether we are likely to acquire this type of multi-purpose aircraft, there is such a possibility. We have had such conversations, but I have repeatedly stated here, and to you, including that I am particularly careful about everything that is being offered. First of all, I would like to know how much their maintenance will cost, how much the training of our pilots will cost, I would also like to know if they will be able to immediately start carrying out the relevant flights, or if we will need to do some concrete repairs, and since I know all these details in figures, then I will also propose the decision of the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u118	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[Reply from MP Desislav Chukolov.]] Mr. Chukolov, come in on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, here is, see, the question before proves again our thesis, what we have been talking about for so long, this loan that we are taking, what is it really going to be used for? Sixteen billion loans took over Bulgaria! And here, in the form of a parliamentary question, we legitimized how we should renew our aviation. Thirty minutes after the loan was voted in this room. Radev, who is the commander of the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria. Yes, we have such Air Force, imagine he had said that we urgently need to buy new fighters. New for the Bulgarian army, second-hand for the US Army. We need to buy here urgently those that cost $700 million?! We're talking about what these billions are going to go for, that there are 2 billion that we don't know where they're going, that's when we said it. This question just proved where these millions and billions will go. This intriguing policy and, in fact, this perversion that the viewers are watching and calling it parliamentary control, excuse me! Mr. Minister, Mr. Slavov, you are from the same party, from the same coalition, wonderfully speaking both here in plenary and in the couloirs. These questions can be asked to each other wherever you want, but to play this theater here in the Bulgarian Parliament, for us from "Attack" is unacceptable. This is unacceptable because this is how you legitimize this particular loan! On yesterday, Mr. Siderov of this tribune said yes, the words of the Deputy Minister of Armed Forces of the United States, who says how these efforts they are making, Bulgaria to be in the battle zone here on the battlefield, yes, this is happening! Carrie said: Bulgaria on the line of fire is happening! You're talking about fighters, artillery and whatnot! Stop this! This is not in the interest of our nation. Ask your constituents, it is clear to our voters that the voters of "Attack" say that this is unacceptable and that we should not fight against the country that has freed us. Please stop this! The Minister of the Reformation Bloc Todor Tanev is my request to you: simply withdraw this minister. Put it somewhere dark, in the shade and cool! Put that man away! Do not embarrass him in front of the Bulgarian citizens to speak the shit that comes into his head. Please don't do this! Today, imagine, your Minister of Education said the following: "We should also think European on the issue of Lutvi's proposal to teach the mother tongue compulsory in schools. " - Do you agree with this?! Do you accept that? We at Ataka say that there should be a compulsory religion, Orthodoxy, faith, non-mother tongue in schools. I've printed another one of his screw-ups here, and I'm embarrassed to read that after Lomonosov and Jolio-Kuri, Minister Tanev debunked Napoleon. Stop debunking this minister, put him somewhere warm! Don't, please stop this! That's how we got this situation that we have right now, and this government that we have, yeah, it happened, you supported it, you put up some footage! Please, please, I beg you not because of Attack, not because of someone else, but because of the Bulgarian people! They're doing something sacrilegious right now. Here, some people, by chance, stumbled into posts that never thought they would be in these posts, have come into these posts and are currently doing terrible damage to Bulgaria. Withdraw these people and just be ashamed! This is Bulgaria! This is Bulgaria and we have to work for Bulgaria! [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u120	We're continuing with parliamentary control. [[Reply from MP Petar Slavov.]] Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not gonna use the possibility of a personal explanation to pick a fight. I will pay attention because apparently the gentleman did not listen well, but I explained very clearly in my question, which I asked that the cost of maintaining aircraft from the USSR, which, by the way, should excite them and please them, is 1.6 billion by 2030. That is, this money the Bulgarian state must give if it wants to have operational military aviation. In this sense, my question was: couldn't this money not be given, or less money be given, and the best option could possibly be donated to us fighters from our Euro-Atlantic partners and the Bulgarian taxpayer not pay anything? No loans were involved in the case of military or any other loans. It is really not bad, and here perhaps as a reproach to you in the manner of conduct, not to use and not to abuse the possibility of statements on behalf of a parliamentary group when national media hand over the meeting to Parliament to say all kinds of things, on any subjects that have nothing to do with the agenda or with the National Assembly's programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u122	Mr. Slavov, as the head of the meeting, I cannot refuse a parliamentary group to make a statement, and she can say whatever she wants in it. You also had the opportunity to give your opinion in the form of a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u123	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u124	We continue with the next question and he is from the National Representative Volen Siderov. I understand it's off the table. We are moving on to a question to the Minister of Defence Mr. Nenchev from the National Representative Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov regarding the fate of the properties of the indoors in 2012 military unit 5238 in the town of Vratsa. Here you are, Mr. Bogdanov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u125	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Members of the National Assembly! My question is about the fate of the closed unit 52380 in the city of Vratsa. Since 1 July 2012, the military formation 52380 in the town of Vratsa has not functioned. It was closed with a decision of the Ministry of Defense. The personnel and property were redirected to other garrisons. The Municipality of Vratsa took an interest in the base of the former military unit, discussing various design solutions for renewal and appropriate use of that base. Vratsa Municipality's desire to acquire the properties of the unit was also supported by a decision of the Municipal Council. Negotiations began with the Ministry of Defence, which led to an agreement and initiation of procedures for transferring the properties of Vratsa municipality. Dear Mr. Nenchev, in a statement your colleague, the Minister of Interior, resigned Mr. Vuchkov, said that in relation to the expected strengthening of the refugee wave to Europe, in Bulgaria will be looking for free bases on closed units, with the aim of their equipment as refugee centers. In addition, information leaked that the Ministry of Defence stopped all procedures for changing ownership of properties owned by the Ministry of Defence. Dear Minister, my question is: are the procedures for giving the property to the former unit 52380, to the municipality of Vratsa, and is there a request addressed to you to provide on the basis of the same for the construction of the Centre for the Accommodation of Refugees?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u127	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bogdanov, thank you for this question. In answer to your question, I would like to share the following. The deposited request of the mayor of Vratsa municipality is from 2012 and concerns parts of the army district 1143, released from the former military units 52380 and 36530. In 2012, the Ministry of Defence expressed a generally positive opinion to the municipality on its support in the field of socio-economic activities, providing it with parts of the exempted infrastructure after carrying out the relevant technical and administrative activities by both parties. In the meantime, however, as regards the need to secure the needs of military troops from the Ministry of Defence, priority action has been taken to satisfy them, including through the cadastral establishment of property. Two of the properties were provided by a ministerial order in 2014 in the management of Land Forces to secure the activities of the military formations from their composition. The remaining two properties are divided into 6 cadastral units in total. Two of them were also granted and handed over to Land Forces by ministerial orders in 2014. The third property was stored in excess of the Ministry's movable property, which is subject to disposal. The Ministry of Defence has three properties with identifiers as follows: 12259.1008.393; 12259.1008.396 and 12259.1008.398. The Ministry of Defence has not received a request from the State Agency for Refugees to the Council of Ministers for the accommodation of refugees in the three listed free properties. The municipality of Vratsa should therefore indicate which of them is of particular interest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u128	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you like a line? Here you are, Mr. Bogdanov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u129	Dear Minister, I accept your response as correct. Indeed, the base, which, at the moment, not to say that it is abandoned at the mercy of fate, is not really used, except for one of the properties you mentioned, serves as a warehouse for various tools that the Ministry of Defense uses. I believe that the procedure for the granting of these properties in view of the already implemented design solutions in this direction should be speeded up. I also hope that your correct answer to the question of refugee accommodation, the construction of a refugee centre, all the more so that a region of the country such as Northwestern Bulgaria with severe demographic problems, firstly, does not have this opportunity to absorb such a stream, and secondly, I think it will have an extremely bad impact on the overall situation in the region. I will continue to ask questions to you, and I will insist on quick answers if such proposals are made so that the right decision can be made and that such accommodation of refugees in the Vrachan region is not allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u130	Thank you. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u131	Thank you. I'll be particularly sympathetic to the area. You probably know that at the end of last year I was there, I made a specific commitment to restore the unit, which received very serious approval from both the mayor and the governor. Of course, it is your job to ask questions, and I will answer you correctly. Once again, to answer your question relating to the refugee centre, we are not working in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u132	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is intended to be asked by Gen. Miho Mihov, but because of his absence, he will not take this opportunity. We're moving on. Question from the National Representative Hristo Georgiev Gajev on the future development of the Forces for Special Operations. Here you go, Mr. Gadget. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! The events, especially in the last decade, have shown why it is necessary to develop the Special Operations Force, not few examples of their effectiveness in high-risk operations and hybrid warfare. In order to achieve higher combat readiness, they should be clearly structured and funded, but in particular be able to carry out their specific training programme according to the wide range of tasks they should perform. This would also be achieved by radically changing the philosophy of their structuring and using as an immediate response force with characteristic specific tasks. Moreover, compatibility should be sought in the command structure with that of NATO. Specific features of special operations require such a command and management system to provide maximum short chain of command from the highest to the lowest level of command and management. In 2012, preparation for the creation of a new concept of the Forces for Special Operations was started as a separate element in the composition of the Bulgarian Army. Much greater integration should be achieved in the joint operations of the types of armed forces and thus achieve more effective building and use of the capabilities of the Forces for Special Operations, especially according to NATO's modern standards, an alliance to which we belong and with which we should be ready to react. In this regard, my question to you is: what is the vision of the Ministry of Defence's leadership for the development of the Forces for Special Operations? Is their restructuring planned, and if so, what deadlines? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u134	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Mr. Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u135	Dear Mr. Gazhev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In response to the question you have asked about the vision of the Ministry of Defence for the Development of Forces for Special Operations, whether their restructuring is planned and within what deadlines, I inform you of the following. According to the commitments made under the 2013 capacity targets package, the Bulgarian Army has implemented three objectives in the interest of NATO Special Operations Forces. Within these frameworks, we are building a tactical group for special operations of Land Forces based on the 68th Brigade, a tactical unit for special operations based on Krumovo Air Base. The construction of a marine tactical group for special operations is planned. However, this is linked to an increase in the number of the Navy and the need for additional funds which, unfortunately, are not provided. The review of capabilities shows that the functional and organisational structure of the Forces for Special Operations established in accordance with the Development Plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted by the Ministerial Decree No 333 of 2010 ensures that their tasks arising from the missions of the Armed Forces are carried out. In preparation is a Programme for the development of the defense capabilities of the Armed Forces by 2020, which will give more clarity to the special forces brigades. According to the adoption of the programme by the National Assembly, a Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces will be developed by 2020, which will determine the organisational structure, the management bodies, the number and distribution of the Special Operations Forces, according to the available financial resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u136	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u137	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It should be noted that with one part of these documents, as I see it, the National Assembly will be introduced when they are ready. I would also like to say what is the vision that we, as a parliamentary group and as a government that was in the period 2009-2013, followed and this is generally said to preserve the current composition of the 68th Brigade, which would include the Alpine Battalion in Smolyan. Special units, as you said, of the Air Force and the Naval Forces should develop in a specific way and have their tasks in the types of armed forces, should be able to operationally combine with the 68th Brigade, especially during training and operation to have compatibility between them. In this context and in planning and conducting operations there should be participation and joint command of forces, I suppose that is what you are also planning to have a structure for planning use in the SCC. It is also important that the doctrine that you mentioned be in line with NATO's basic documents on this issue so that our special forces can be compatible with those of our allies so that they can work together anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u138	Thank you. Do you want a hole, Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u139	Dear Mr. Gazhev, I am using this case to thank both you and the other members of the Defence Committee. I am extremely pleased with your work, with the empathy that you have towards each of the specific issues that we are working on. I also want to assure you, of course, that you will probably get the new development programme and plan within this month, which I hope will satisfy you and answer all your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u140	Thanks for the douche. I understand that you want the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front. Here you are, Mr. Angelov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ministers, I would like to express the position of the Patriotic Front on the occasion of the media statements given by the Minister of Education and its de facto support, which in these media statements, has shown to Mr. Mestan's proposals for the compulsory study of Turkish language in Bulgarian schools. We of the Patriotic Front are strongly opposed to such a thing. We should remind the Minister of Education that there is a signed Programme for the management of the country by the four parliamentary parties in the majority, in which the Patriotic Front clearly and categorically stated that we are against the news in Turkish and against the compulsory study of Turkish language in Bulgarian schools. According to us the Bulgarian Constitution is clear enough that the Bulgarian language is official in Bulgaria, which means it is also official in Bulgarian schools. We strongly oppose the additional Turkisation of Bulgarian territories. The introduction of such a mandatory subject in Bulgarian schools and especially in municipalities where they manage the DPS, and we know how they manage the feudal, will oblige everyone in the territory of these municipalities to learn Turkish language, including the Bulgarians Mohammedans, including the Gypsy population, including the Bulgarian Christians. That is why we call Mr. Minister of Education Prof. Tanev to reconsider his position and comply with the agreements made in the formation of the Bulgarian government, which we have supported, including him. It is true that he has not attended the talks on policy formation and agreements in the Management Programme, but ultimately he is obliged to know what majority partners have agreed and what positions are being defended. Therefore, from the Patriotic Front, we urge the parliamentary groups in the Bulgarian National Assembly not to support such insanity as Lutvi Mestan and the DPS propose. Mr. Minister, I hope you will really reconsider this position of yours and stand for what you have been chosen to do. Thank you. [[Single applause from the Patriotic Front.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u142	Thank you. Minister Tanev, since you are here, I can give you the floor if you want. I see you're on your way to the stand, so please comment on the speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the Parliament, honourable Members of the Patriotic Front! With the deepest respect for your cause, I want to make it very clear that what it says does not always correspond to the truth. Each of the politicians has sooner or later come into a situation in which something is interpreted in some way. At the moment, on these microphones comes to a wide range of the population in Bulgaria the alarming news that a minister allows himself the luxury of violating agreements that exist long ago and have been made in all constitutional and so on ways, with some will towards a separate political party. I repeat the most solemnly and very much ask you to grasp this as a truth. I have never, in any form, spoken about the compulsory study of Turkish or any other language. It is quite another situation that, for example, the Jewish community studies Hebrew in one school, has opportunities in Armenian schools to be studied as elective forms, and this is made optional with the mother tongue, as is the case with Turkish. It's been in all the laws for a long time. Where and when have I introduced such a law? When did you hear me say that thing? Who's the witness to all this? I beg you to believe your minister! My words are final, no matter what is written. Through these microphones I want to address everyone! Such a thing the Ministry of Education or the Minister to insist and to have an opinion in some form of compulsory study there is no. Let us continue in the way that is in European norms. As is right, the Members of the National Assembly will say in what forms, if there is to be any further development of this issue. The Ministry of Education and Science is currently not involved in this issue. During my term of office, and until now, no document has arrived in it, and I have had no reason to express such an opinion. It's possible there's been some kind of mistake. [[Single applause from the Patriotic Front.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u144	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we continue with the questions to the Minister of Defense Mr. Nenchev. The next question is from the National Representative Angel Naydenov on the Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces. Here you are, Mr. Naydenov, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u145	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! My question is rather intended, Minister Nenchev, to clarify your intentions regarding the completion of the review of the structures of the Armed Forces, the possible development of some document of appeal, most likely a political framework, and based on these two documents a corresponding plan or programme for the development of the Armed Forces. I would like to add immediately that this is not just a strictly professional issue that only concerns the Armed Forces Command or the Ministry of Defense's leadership. Apart from people and institutions that are directly related and relevant to national security issues, this is a matter which should certainly interest every Bulgarian citizen, even only as a taxpayer, who has the right to know what and where the part of his taxes allocated to the defence and security of the country goes. Is it important to have such a plan? In my opinion, undoubtedly, yes, even because of the fact that he would have made to some extent unnecessary the question of the colleague about, let's say, the special forces in this case. It would have been seen and known where the intention could be read or the future of a kind of armed force or army. In this case, it is important to note that the plan, Minister, is an essential element, albeit not the only one. It is directly related to military planning, and it is in the two components of defence planning and operational planning. In fact, without the existence of this plan, the entire procedure relating to planning, programming and the corresponding provision of the necessary resources in the form of an annual budget cannot be carried out. What makes this question relevant? The fact is that the Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces was a deadline for the end of 2014. My question is what are your intentions regarding the development and presentation of this plan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Naydenov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u147	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Naydenov! I believe that with the answer to the question I will give more light to the one you asked me before. In response to your question regarding the presentation of a new Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces after 2014, I take the occasion to recall that given the expiry of last year's term, the Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria was approved by Decree No 333 of 29 December 2010 of the Council of Ministers. By order of the Minister of Defence No OH-848 of 16 December 2013, an overview of the structure of the Armed Forces was launched. The results of the Review should have resulted in the development of this Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces. As already known, the Review was scheduled to be completed by 30 June 2014. In accordance with your Order, No ОХ-405 of 11 June 2014, the deadline was extended until 30 September 2014. The results of the Review were discussed at the Defence Council on 21 October 2014. It outlined the need to further develop them. In this regard, pursuant to the Order of the Minister of Defence, No ОХ-794 of 30 October 2014, a review of the defence capabilities was held in November 2014 and the results of which will serve as the basis for the preparation of a new Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces by 2020. You are aware that in 2014 the White Paper on Defence and Armed Forces expired, the Instructions of the Defence Policy Minister, 2011-2014, and most of the Armed Forces Development Plan. In order to fill this vacuum in a short time, after taking up my post at the Ministry of Defence, by my order Ohh-81 of 28 January 2015 I announced for implementation Instructions of the Defence Minister for Defence Policy, 2015-2018, which provide conditions for the development of the necessary strategic documents as follows. First, a Programme for the development of the defence capabilities of the Armed Forces by 2020, which will replace the White Paper on Defence and the Armed Forces from 2010. By my order OH-13 of 13 February 2015 a working group has already been formed to prepare the program with the Head of Deputy Minister of Defence. The group has been tasked by 16 March 2015 to provide me with a draft approval programme and a subsequent application. Of course, it will be necessary to submit it to the National Assembly in accordance with the established order. Secondly, a Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces by 2020, which will be drawn up within 1 month of the adoption of the Program for the Development of the Defence Capabilities of the Armed Forces by 2020. The Plan will be presented for adoption by the Council of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u148	Thanks for the answer. Would you like a line, Mr. Naydenov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I am pleased to some extent by the answer you give, and certainly everyone, whether or not he is a participant in the Parliamentary Defence Commission, even because of the fact that you stressed the need for consideration and the approval in the plenary of a basic document such as the Programme. In the opening part, I would urge the National Assembly or at least the Commission to consider the Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces. In fact, I would like to stress that you have taken a major step towards completing the review of the structures of the Armed Forces and the subsequent preparation of the development of the Programme and the Plan, but what has been done so far is only one step. You've got a few more big steps ahead of you. I am afraid that any delay, as there are different conventions, at least in the way that you formulated your response, which brings us closer to the time when the budgetary procedure is launched for next year. Entering this procedure without a programme and a plan, you face two major risks that I would like to say in plenary. The first risk is not being able to protect your claim to a certain financial resource, such as a defence budget for next year, because you will not have the basis on which to justify the answers to questions what, why, how and when. The greater danger is that, in practice, without such a plan or programme, you will make absolutely unnecessary the entire system for the management and development of the Armed Forces in its three main subsystems, the operational capabilities, the defence resources management system and the acquisition and integration system.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u150	Thanks for the line, Mr. Naydenov. Would you like a douche? Yes, come in, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u151	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Naydenov, thank you for your recommendations. I have already mentioned that the program for development of defence capabilities will be completed in time, i.e. by 16 March. Immediately after this date, I will begin consultations with each of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, and before that, of course, with the Defence Committee to receive your support, I hope. Within a very short period of time, I hope that we will end up, again, with your decisive support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u152	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The last question for you today is from the MP Slavcho Atanasov on the status of the military invalids first group with chaperones and those with TELK. Mr. Atanasov, please state your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u153	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Before I ask my question, I will take the opportunity to say a single sentence to Minister Tanev: congratulations on his dignified position before the Bulgarian Parliament, which categorically debunked speculation on a topic so ill for the Bulgarian people. Dear Minister, for years the Bulgarian military invalids have been damaged. The national leadership of the military invalids has repeatedly put these people's vital questions both to the Social Ministry and to the Ministry of Defence, but unfortunately, it has remained unanswered and resolved the questions asked. The first group and those with TelK, including those with mental disorders, others without limbs and in wheelchairs, receive pensions of 130 BGN. Our proposal and desire is for these people to be aligned with front soldiers who enjoy privileges, namely: they do not pay medicines, they do not pay the cost of rest at specialized rest stations, their emergency treatment is also borne by the state. Dear Minister, as a citizen and MP, I would like to ask: what can be done to help these Bulgarian citizens? At what time should appropriate action be taken? Respectfully, Slavcho Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u154	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u155	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Atanasov, before I answer your question specifically, I would like to assure you of my complete empathy with these people. To assure you that I will do everything I can to make them feel good and, of course, to receive all that in the field of health and in the time they want to rest, they will have my full support and empathy. Regarding the answer to the question. As regards your proposals, I can inform you of the following. First, at present, the issue of the release of the disability of military invalids 50 and more than 50% of the payment of the necessary medicines is settled in the execution of art. 15, para. 1 of the Law on Military Disabilities and Military Victims. Secondly, with regard to your proposal that their emergency treatment be at the expense of the state, I inform you that, like all Bulgarian citizens, they benefit from free medical care in emergency conditions under art. 35, p. Art. 3, Art. 64a, para. 1, t. 3 of the Health Insurance Act, in connection with Art. 82, para. 1, t. 2 of the Health Act. In accordance with art. 37, para. 4 of the Health Insurance Act, they are exempt from payment of payments for visits to a doctor and part of the amounts for hospital treatment provided. Thirdly, on the occasion of your proposal that these persons do not pay any holiday expenses at specialized holiday stations, I would like to inform you of the following. At present, art. 16 of the Law on Military Disabilities and Military Victims regulates their right to use holiday bases, as well as hospital bases on balneology, rehabilitation and prevention of individual departments, paying only 25% of the value of recreation. For comparison, veterans under art. 4, para. 1 of the special Law shall be entitled to free rest and treatment only in the sanatoriums of the relevant departments. Therefore, the issue of levelling the rights of the two categories of persons under these laws will be discussed at a meeting held by the Council of Advisors on Military Disabilities, Military Victims and War Veterans, chaired by me. In conclusion, I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Defence is prepared to form an interdepartmental working group to discuss both the proposals you have made and those offered by the Union of Military Disabilities and Military Victims, in the event of planned and provided for this purpose State resources. Thank you, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u157	Rather, Mr. President, it would not be a reply, but a satisfaction from the Minister's reply, because Mr. Minister in front of the National Assembly's stand made a commitment to improve the situation of these people, to be aligned as military invalids and to use free medicines. So far, they're paying in part for these drugs. As an officer of the reserve of the Bulgarian Army, I congratulate the Minister with his commitment. I am convinced that he will accept the leadership of the military invalids to personally inform them of these truly decent actions he is taking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u158	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Would you like to share the satisfaction in the form of a duplicate, Mr. Minister? You don't want to. Parliamentary control and questions to you today are exhausted. Have a good day. We are now going with a question to Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin, Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy. I thank Mrs. Manolova for her patience and for waiting for Mr. Kalfin to arrive. You have the opportunity to ask your question, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u159	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kalfin, in the last days your name has been raised among the elderly in Bulgaria with two scandalous decisions with 16-billion-dollar debt from the government of Boyko Borisov 2, which you have supported zealously and with great enthusiasm, and the scandalous idea to impose working pensioners with a new 10% pension tax. The two solutions, albeit different, are linked together because both solutions are deeply mistaken in the already empty pocket of the Bulgarian pensioner. Because, dear Mr. Kalfin, in Bulgaria, pensioners work because they receive minimum pensions because they barely make ends meet. They work to buy bread, drugs to pay their electricity bills. I don't know if you can imagine the situation of a pensioner who gets a pension under BGN 200. and the alternative is to either dig through the trash cans or earn extra, working on a civil or employment contract, usually with minimal remuneration. So the idea that you explained that it wouldn't be bad to tax pensioners because it would create new jobs sounds ridiculous. According to the pensioners, it sounds cynical because this means that you have an understanding that almost the government's investment programme should be filled with the miserable lefties of the pensioners. And then, I ask, what was your 16-billion-dollar debt? Why did you load the country with 16 billion if you are going to fill the investment program with the miserable leftovers of the Bulgarian pensioners? In your opinion, because this is how you saved Bulgaria from a financial disaster.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u160	If you please the question, Mrs. Manolova, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u161	But now duty is a poet. If I can use the terminology of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov the cart of the state is loaded with 16 billion debt. With 16 billion in the treasury, I think everyone can pull the cart and you don't have to harness the Bulgarian pensioners into it. So I expect your clear answer, namely the pensioners expect it: will you load them with new taxes?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Manolova, dear colleagues! Mrs. Manolova, you speak well on behalf of all retired people. It was nice of you to do that last year and answer questions like that. What you are asking, of course, has nothing to do with what you have asked as a written question, but nevertheless, although you are an experienced MP and you know the procedures, you obviously want to say something from the stand. You have this opportunity. I'll give you an answer. With the State Budget Act, which, as far as I know, your parliamentary group, because most of it was not there when it was voted, for this year it was decided to take on 8 billion. 200 million. debt. Again, I say December of last year. This debt goes to pay off old debts accumulated until this year. To take this debt, there must be a mediator. What has happened, and you have absolutely populistly wavered here quite incompetently expertly that some new debt is being taken, is in fact the hiring of mediators with whom what has been decided since December.........................when you were not in the room because you didn't want to enter and your meeting was late when you accepted it in practice. So half of that 16 billion this year goes to pay off already taken over, including by your government, liabilities. And that should be clear. That's what the numbers say. As for the tax on pensioners who work, also a matter that has nothing to do with the truth. I understand the desire to speak this way from the stands, but let's look at the truth. I am dealing with something that no one has ever dealt with before, including Mr. Oresharski's previous government, which you have been very protective of in this, in as broad a dialogue as possible, to discuss how to stabilise the pension system. Because yesterday, you're bringing in a bill that guarantees pensioners miserable pensions. Yeah, I know they're miserable. And with your bill, which, thank God, was rejected, would be guaranteed for a long time the same misery of the pensioners. So when you talk about the results of this discussion, let's see them in parliament. Everyone's coming and making suggestions right now. It's not my proposal to tax the working pensioners. Including, if you have time left to monitor political life outside of contact with pensioners, you must have seen that I very clearly said my opinion is that I do not think that people who receive low pensions and low wages should be charged extra. So that a proposal has been made by one of the participants in the discussion there participate, remind, employers, trade unions and parliamentary groups and you have a representative who can confirm this thing, this came as a proposal and all the proposals are open. It will be my responsibility when I submit a package of proposals to the National Assembly. Then I'll be responsible for this package. Now that there are discussions and various proposals is good. You may not like it, only the fact that the pension system is currently such that it guarantees low pensions for people. And instead of giving me ideas for better taxation, you tell me and put words in my mouth that I never said. I've even said the exact opposite. But because your wish is to say it from the stand here, you have this opportunity. I tell you again: it is not my idea and I do not support that people with low pensions and low incomes be taxed on their pension benefits. That's what you say in your contacts with the Retired Club in Kyustendil, which we recently talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u164	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. Time's up. Thanks for the answer. Mrs. Manolova, come in for a line. However, stick to the topic of working pensioners.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u165	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kalfin, I think it's high time you stopped acting like Minister of Debt and started acting like Minister of Social Policy. Because contacts with pensioners are my responsibility as a national representative, but as a social minister you should be much more interested in people who are in a difficult social situation and who need support from the Bulgarian state. Of course, taking on a 16-billion-dollar debt is a measure that hits cruelly both the working pensioners and the unemployed pensioners and all Bulgarian citizens. And it is absurd that it is the social minister, who also comes from a party that until yesterday was led to left, supported this burden of the Bulgarian state. In fact, dear Mr. Kalfin, you have made your own party a hostage of your own political career. If you can't fight for the pensioners, if you're ashamed to fight for the pensioners, if you're ashamed of the left-wing voters, by those who voted for you to be the MP and social minister, then take an example from Mr. Vuchkov, and don't turn your resignation into a means of blackmailing your own parliamentary group, which, because of your political career, was forced to support the scandalous decision to take on the 16-billion-dollar debt that day was forced to vote against the flexible retirement, which, by the way, is an election promise of the Political Party ABV. You're betraying not just the ABB, not just the left-wing voters. You betray the poor people in Bulgaria. So today at the forum, which will start in 10 minutes, the person who has to resign is certainly not the chairman of your party, but you. You have the bright example of Mr. Vuchkov in this direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Here's your coat, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Manolova, I refrain from giving advice to your party who will resign. Perhaps you shouldn't have run and told your constituents that the Oresharski government left the country in a situation in which this year it has to pay 8 billion old debts accumulated by you. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Old, you've accumulated debts! And now you're playing very beautifully some scenes about a new debt. It's a debt accumulated by you! Last year, the state deficit left by the same Oresharski government is 2 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is Where's he gonna hide from?! Out of debt.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u168	And 16 billion?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u169	Here, you let it go. It has to be paid. This is your inheritance from a few months ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u170	We've paid old debts too!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u171	So what do we do now? You say, "There is no more debt." What do you mean, there's no more debt? You, Mrs. Manolova, are defending what you said you were fighting against. Mr. Djankov's policy. To reduce deficits, not to have a deficit in the state and to have zero debt. That's what you're doing right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u172	Yes, you are!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u173	And you want my resignation! No, your resignation should be there! You must explain to your voters the state is in debt with the Oresharski government. This year it has to pay back 8 billion old debts, next year two, pò next year three. We've left 2 billion. 600 million deficit in the state. When you say those things, it's not nice to be back in parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u174	Thank you for the tunic, Mr. Kalfin, with which the questions to you for today have been exhausted. Thank you for the presence of parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u175	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u176	You want to use the technique in the way you're driving to tell us something. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u177	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I am taking the procedure in the manner of conduct, because I believe that it is the President who should keep the management of the National Assembly in such a way, because when lies are poured out of the stands, he should stop them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u178	Mr. Ermenkov, I have no way of knowing what's a lie. As you know, I don't have...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u179	How can you not know what is a lie when you have also participated? I will tell you...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u180	I don't have a barometer to measure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u181	Mr. Chairman, let us not enter into a dialogue afterwards you will have the opportunity to speak your opinion about what I have said. The obvious lie was that we didn't vote on debt. On the contrary, we voted for ratification of three documents: a deal on dealership, a contract on agency and an Act on the commitment of Bulgaria to issue 8 billion euros in debt! Isn't that an obligation?! The second lie that was a lie you know very well: the government of Oresharski did not oblige Bulgaria with 8 billion leva! You all know that! And when a deputy prime minister lies, he's either not honest or trying to fool himself or making excuses because he feels guilty about his politics!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u182	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. In this case, I can't weigh which of what you're saying, or Mr. Kalfin, is a lie. Either way, it's a debate on this important subject. Thank you for participating today, Mr. Kalfin. That was the only question for you. We are continuing with the next series of questions to Mr. Todor Tanev, Minister of Education and Science. The first question is from the MP Milen Vassilev Mihov concerning the terms and conditions for admission in the higher schools in the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you are, Professor Mihov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u183	Honorable Mr. Chairman, Honorable Mr. Minister! My question is this. The media reported a planned change of reception in the Bulgarian universities with a special test that will be the same for all educational institutions. At the same time, it was held that the finals should be dropped as an entrance to higher education. The terms and conditions for admission in the Bulgarian universities are laid down in the Law on Higher Education and the Ordinance on State Requirements for Admission of Students in Higher Schools of the Republic of Bulgaria. This Regulation was adopted in 2000 and has consistently changed over the years, with the latest change in 2004. Dear Minister, the opinion expressed by you clearly expresses the desire of the Ministry of Education and Science for legislative changes concerning the terms and conditions of admission in the higher schools in the Republic of Bulgaria. In this regard, my question is: what changes in the Law on Higher Education and/or the Ordinance on State Requirements for Admission of Students in Higher Schools of the Republic of Bulgaria provides for your Ministry to submit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u184	Thank you, dear Associate Professor Mihov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u185	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Members of Parliament! Dear colleague Mihov, I would like to briefly say as an answer to your question that for the current 2015 there are no changes, neither time nor plans for any, nor the question of any changes. Perhaps most of the journalists who have listened to my repeated appearances on this issue have rightly reflected that it can be considered in the coming years, especially if we agree, all of us "the Council of Rectors, the Parliamentary Group of Education and Trade Unions" to introduce some changes to the Higher Education Act, which is a very urgent task, given the coming Operational Programme "Science and education for Intelligent Growth." In relation to it there must be some synchronizations with the requirements of the European Commission, respectively, for the admission of students. I have a written reply here, which explains that the changes can be undertaken eventually by the National Assembly after the Higher Education Development Strategy has already been adopted. That was about ten days ago. I don't see any possibility of rushing things from here on.. It doesn't make any sense. We haven't thought about it. As far as my personal opinion is concerned, we should think about some problems - what we were talking about yesterday at the blitzcontrol, about what Professor Stattev in one way called We have a lot to think about. The finals will certainly become the subject of discussion next year, as there will be new educational standards in 18 areas. Maybe they'll increase their numbers. It is possible to discuss this, to synchronise with other countries that have a general education test that is valid throughout the country. But these are things that still don't seem like an actual task. However, I hope that at the first opportunity we can start discussing them, because next year we will be making progress.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u186	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Docent Mihov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u187	Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. My question had two tasks: firstly, to say clearly, responsibly and to dispel concerns about possible rapid changes affecting the application of our children and the work of universities. The second reason for this issue is to draw your attention to this Regulation on the state requirements for admission of students to the higher schools of the Republic of Bulgaria, which was adopted in 2000 and which is archaic, outdated. The latest changes in it have been since 2004. Since then, some very important things have happened. I will mark two of them: firstly, we have become a member of the European Union there the reception of students living Bulgarians in the European Union is arranged in order and in terms, such as the candidate-students from a foreign country. Next, the Law on Higher Education was changed and the exams became an entrance for higher schools. So this Ordinance is on the agenda to be streamlined, reformed, made and adapted so that it can work in the new conditions at the new moments related to the problems facing the Bulgarian universities. That was my second assignment. And I hope that you and your Ministry staff will look at this necessary issue.. to review, reform or to make a new one, in line with the Strategy for Higher Education Development which we have adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u188	Thank you, Assoc. Mihov. Would you like a douche? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u189	Thank you for this expansion you've made. The question I see in the same way as you do, and I suppose it is also the same as all those in this House for whom higher education is a very important priority. A thousand and six hundred years after the opening of the first university, the Andydaction, called the Magnaur School, and a thousand years after the opening of the first Western European University, the University of Bologna, so many years, millennia, universities have been... They produced science and produced footage. It was only in the last 20-30 years that we had to live in a time when they became subject to the market, market relations, market education services, as they say. Unfortunately, the momentum in this direction in the last 20 years in Bulgaria has led to such legislation, which rather creates this new role or eases this new role of universities. Our task, however, is to filter the extremes. We must return, point out to the first position the production part of universities, which will inevitably lead us to listen to those who have managed to combine education business with the true development of science both the universities that we have had over 100 years and have proved it, not only Sofia University, the University of National and World Economy, the Music Academy Pancho Vladigerov (Pancho Vladigerov) and so on, so many higher education institutions. It's a joint case. It's not just the Ministry of Education's case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u190	Thanks for the douche bag, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next question, in fact this is a question by the National Representative Ivan Slavov Ivanov about actions for accelerated provision of a material base for full-time training of pre-school children. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the extensive public discussion of the Law on school and pre-school education logically predicted a critical analysis of the results in the educational training of students. In a number of our country's schools they are disturbing, and for not a few students they are below the requirements of the educational minimum. It is generally considered that among the main reasons for this is the inability to provide scope conditions and to conduct systematic training and training for preschool children. There is no doubt that education and care for young children contribute to overcoming skills differences and contribute to their cognitive, linguistic, social and emotional development. The provision of training, education, early childhood care promises an interruption of the vicious circle of low achievements and a loss of interest, which often leads to school leaving and hence transmission of poverty from generation to generation. By admiring the fact that one of the first, most important laws in the forty-third National Assembly is the one for school and preschool education, which I interpret as strong evidence of the priorities of the government, I ask you, Dear Minister, to answer me: what actions do you take as a minister and a member of the stability government to speed up the necessary material base, building fund, for an optimal range of pre-school educationable children? I also put my question because, according to unofficial data, over 8,000 children in Sofia, somewhere around 1500 in my electoral 21. Sliven's region and thousands of other children in the country remain unattained for years in full - time kindergartens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u192	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, you have an opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u193	I would like to answer from the beginning, Mr. Ivanov, with the fact that the Ministry of Science and Education has limited opportunities in this regard. On the other hand, however, the Ministry has done more than its powers. I explain: according to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on People's Education of 5 October 2010, with the introduction of a two-year preliminary course of children over five years of age, the number of children who should attend the preparatory groups has really increased sharply, and in an environment consistent with the age characteristics of children. According to § 9 of the Additional Provisions of this Law, it is foreseen by the beginning of the school year 2012/2013, that is, that is, that the previous school year, that municipalities create the necessary conditions for carrying out compulsory pre-school training. I repeat, the municipalities. That's by law. It is apparent from this law that the municipalities own the buildings. State kindergartens are the exception of a total of seven, and all of them to the Ministry of Defence, designed to train and educate their contingent. Similar is the situation in schools where pre-school training is carried out. In general, they are municipal using municipal property buildings and public schools where pre-school training is carried out are an exception and are primarily related to professional high schools. The priority of accelerated insurance in 2010-2012, according to the explicit legal norm, is included in the municipalities. The Ministry, however, during the period 2010-2012 provided financial support to municipalities for the construction and reconstruction of the material and technical base in the initial period. I can tell you the amount. That's four million. 82,000. 700 BGN, respectively for the individual municipalities I have it as a breakdown. That's what I've been given. The full - time organization currently covers 84% of children in compulsory pre-school training and 16% of children are enrolled in semi-day training these days. Since the answer comes from four pages, I can give it to you in writing. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u194	Thank you, Professor Tanev, for understanding. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov. You can ask up to two questions in the next two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u195	Dear Minister, there is no doubt that I know the duties of the municipalities as well as of the state. That is why I pointed out in my question, it is commendable that in the new law, and in general as a priority, the state clearly appreciates the importance of pre-school education for the preparation of children as defining preparation for their further development in school. We need to realize, together with this, that the conditions in which a non-small, growing group of children who develop in the first years of their childhood are unequal to others. It is the duty of the state to support those municipalities in which it is very difficult to handle themselves, as I have read these days the information that Sofia Municipality will spend 12 million on a material basis of kindergartens this year, but the state will support it with 18 million. After a Sofia Municipality relies on almost twice as much support from the state to build the material base, let's see how much less opportunities the smaller municipalities have. And because the problem is not the municipality's, but the state's, and because Bulgaria is part of the European Union, and the Europe 2020 Strategy brings out two main objectives: one is for providing under 10% dropout of students at school, and the second is for ensuring a gradual decline of poverty in municipalities, including in Bulgaria, I believe that the condition for the solution of the problem is that the full-time education of the children so that they are on equal terms in their preparation in school. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u196	Will you have further questions, or are you finishing the question with this statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u197	I expect the Ministry to state its readiness that it will bring support for pre-school education as a priority, especially in full-time training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u198	Thank you. Would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u199	In a nutshell, I fully share your concern. Pre-school education is generally not equal to primary and secondary education. We have a lot of problems with his emancipation. Another big problem is the inequality between different regions of the country. We all know that. Recently, we are discussing opportunities for some forms to be tested in the Northwestern region. Let's start somewhere to see what can work, for a little bit pick up the scissors in the differences, including in the field of full-time education, which is so much It's important there. I can guarantee that the team we are now is very responsible for this task. I'll vouch for that. But the decision you said about the 18 million in Sofia was by the Council of Ministers, not exactly the Ministry of Education and Science. In such a sense, it had some motives to do so. Let's not look so much in Sofia, now let's first turn to the areas that are in the most unequal position. From Vidin to Durankulak in Northern Bulgaria we are currently doing such, both in Razgrad and elsewhere we are looking for these opportunities, hopefully and find them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u200	Thank you. You can take the final attitude, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I will make use of this right. This is exactly what I expect you to do, Dear Minister, the Council of Ministers to decide, as we have recently launched the program, and thank God, for the renovation of the own homes of thousands of Bulgarian families, as well as for the government to adopt a programme to provide conditions for the scope and full preparation and upbringing of preschool children. Thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-06.u202	And thank you, Mr. Ivanov, for your attitude. Let's get to the last question. It is asked by three Members of the National Assembly of Plamen Manushev, Krasimir Petrov and Pavel Hristov about the need to build a multifunctional sports playground adapted for children with visual disabilities, whose users will be 153 blind students from the school of "Prof. Dr. Ivan Shishmanov Who will ask the question of the three Members of the National Assembly? It's like I don't see anybody in this room. When there are three, this is often the case. The responsibility is transferred and no one takes it. That is, this issue is postponed. Mr. Minister, the questions for you today are exhausted. We expect the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to appear in the Chamber to move on to the next questions. Thank you, Mr. Minister of Education, for your participation today. Do we have any information on Minister Moskov? Is he in the building? Please check! [[Noise and lines.]] Okay, we'll wait for him. It's probably time for a commercial break. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Do we have any information if he's in the building? In one minute she'll be here. Please, time it. The first question to him will be from the National Representative. Stanilov on the legal protection of doctors against people who do not respect their dignity and professionalism. Minister Moskov actually has 11 questions, two of which have been postponed. Do we have any information from the Quaestors? Mr. Glauchev, do we have any information on Minister Moskov? [[Relation from the National Representative Dimitar Glauchev.]] We hope he's in good medical health. Given the inability of Minister Moskov to answer the questions asked, they will be postponed to the next parliamentary control. The next parliament meeting will be on 11 March 2015 from 9.00 p.m. respectively on 10 March to 18.00 we will find out what the program will be. Thank you, fellow Members. [[Noise and lines.]] He just walked through the door. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
