ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Please register. Abort registration. Second attempt at 9:15 p.m. Discovered at 9:18 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u2	Colleagues, please take our seats and register. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. On behalf of a group, come in, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u3	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposed by the Ministry of Finance Draft Budget 2016 is not responsible for the serious challenges facing the Bulgarian economy. The proposed approach to continuously shrinking the share of the budget in gross domestic product to about 37% is strongly contrary to the fiscal policies carried out by other countries of the European Union. Over the past four decades, developed European countries have maintained this share of about 50% of gross domestic product. The role of the State in distribution processes and the promotion of economic development has even increased in the post-crisis period of 2008. " 2009" In France, for example, for the entire period from 1978 to 2014, the average budgetary contribution in the product is 52% and in the last five years it is in the range of 57%. State finances play a growing role in stimulating and regulating the market economy. Without decisive state intervention, the severe economic problems of the world economy would not have been overcome. At the current level of the Bulgarian gross domestic product of about 85 billion. BGN, the 10% difference in the share of the budget compared to European standards means that our country is deprived of an annual financial resource of the order of 10 billion leva. Such a resource would play an essential role in stimulating public-private partnership and thereby economic growth, reducing unemployment and improving living levels, and would overcome the problems of deepening social polarisation. It seems that the current rulers have not yet understood that neoliberal and extremely conservative development models have suffered a complete collapse and that the future of the market economy is in the public-private partnership. The draft budget puts the stability of public finances first, but as an objective instead of the economic development of the Republic of Bulgaria. Maintaining a budget deficit and public debt within the requirements of the Maastricht criteria is an obligation of any government, but the question is whether the stability of public finances will result from economic development or be at the expense of this development. This is the deep difference between the stated principles in this project budget, is our position of BSP left Bulgaria, which considers financial stability as an important condition and not as an objective of budgeting. It cannot, when the European Union raises the issue of harmonizing the fiscal policies of member states as a binding step towards strengthening the European monetary system, the ruling coalition should offer us a reverse movement. What stability of public finances is the government talking about after repeating the steps of GERB's previous mandate to melt the rapidly accumulated fiscal reserve and accumulate new debts?! This project says in black and white that at the end of 2016 the fiscal reserve could go down to 4.5 billion. lv. If the claims of the Ministry of Finance are true, it now amounts to 11 billion. BGN, it turns out that in just a year this strategic reserve will be drained to critical and unacceptable low levels. No answer is given to the question what will be the fate of the reserve in 2017 and 2018. With this Project Budget, the government is putting us in an extremely dangerous debt spiral, leading us to a Greek scenario. It is at stake that in the next three years the public debt of the Republic of Bulgaria will be doubled and will reach almost 30% of gross domestic product or about 15 billion. Euros. Yes, it is still half the limit of the Maastricht criteria, but so began this process at the time in Greece, Portugal, Ireland and other countries, and we know what it ended with. For 2016 alone, Mr. Borisov's government has set a withdrawal of a new colossal debt of 5.3 billion. lv. This is the first major step in the absorption of the stunning total government loan of 16 billion. lv. for the next three years. He will lie on the shoulders of several generations of Bulgarians. This answers the question why the government hid the post-election project budget to escape taxpayers' questions about how and for what these colossal amounts will be spent. The simultaneous contraction of budget revenues and expenditures as a share of gross domestic product, combined with the trends already shown here by autumn 2015. The growth of almost 10% of company lending, the decline in consumer demand and domestic and foreign investments, suggests very symbolic growth. The belt tightening and debt enslavement proposed by importers does not lead to a reduction of differences with the average economic performance of the European Union. In essence, the intact system of flat tax is maintained, the government says it will strengthen the tax and thus the debt burden on the poorest and most dominant part of the middle class. And here their consistency is in the opposite direction of good European and global practices. One of the first anti-crisis measures in all developed countries was the increase in tax burden on the wealthiest part of society, with the marginal income tax on individuals being raised even in traditional liberal economies such as those of the United States and Great Britain to levels of 50%. This Project Budget does not offer us any policies to solve the deepening problems of Bulgaria. In essence, a little more crumbs are offered for several ministries and cutting of already scarce funds for education and science, reaching for the already humiliating low budget of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. We have no reason to believe the incantations for financial consolidation and reforms after we are served a request for an update of the 2015 budget with almost a billion leva additional costs. Since the beginning of this year, Minister Goranov and the Prime Minister have repeatedly convinced us that there are no prerequisites and there will be no update of the budget. The society has been misled throughout the year for some hearing successes in collecting taxes, duties and excise duties, for shrinking smuggling and the grey economy. However, the reality turns out to be different. Budget 2015 turns out to be a mess and this will cost us a new billion-dollar spending by the end of the year, and because of failed administrative reforms. That the political governments and the entire government were unable to implement or, more precisely, did not want to implement these reforms, we will all pay. So, as the finance minister is right with his argument that the employees of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Interior are not to blame for the failure of their rulers and deserve to receive salaries in November and December, by the same logic, we taxpayers are not willing to withdraw new loans and pay for the incompetence and incompetence of the ruling coalition. We, BSP left Bulgaria, will definitely not support this idealess Draft Act for Budget 2016, as well as the proposal for an update of Budget 2015. In the budget committees, in plenary, we, BSP left Bulgaria, will propose alternative solutions that are in full sync with the fiscal policies of the European Union. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u4	Dear Members of the National Assembly, at this time there is no submitted draft law on state budget, nor on the budgets of the Health Insurance Fund and national and public insurance in the National Assembly, I am not aware of these being adopted by the Council of Ministers. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u5	On behalf of a parliamentary group. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, without any doubt, the debate on the budget is very important, so the plenary and the Bulgarian citizens should not be misled and those who are not true should not be told before them and should remain untrue. Colleagues, who was in charge of 2014? Who was in charge of 2014? Who allowed the record deficit in the 2014 budget? This was Oresharski's office. That's when the bankruptcy of KTB happened. At the end of the year, the result is a record budget deficit - a record budget deficit for Bulgaria. That's the result! [[Noise and lines from BSP.]] The efforts that are being made...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u6	Colleagues, please respect each other! That's not the way to yell from place to place!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u7	I understand that from what I'm telling you, you're in pain, colleagues, but these are the facts and dissatisfaction with the place, the facts won't change. After the record budget deficit with which the public finances of the state were put to the test, the last two years the ruling majority has stabilized public finances. [[Noise and lines from BSP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u8	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u9	Please, colleagues, please raise me in the hall! Colleagues from BSP... [[Noise and lines from BSP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u10	Colleagues, we've just started the meeting, don't force me to interrupt him because of the noise and disturbance in the room!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u11	Now, I say again, I know colleagues, it hurts a lot, but you have to listen to me. [[Noise and lines from BSP.]] In your term of office happened also a bank bankruptcy, which by dimension did not occur in the new Bulgarian history, which led to a 6% budget deficit at the end of 2014. What is then done is stabilizing public finances. Two thousand and fifteenth and 2016 the budget deficit is introduced within the Maastricht criteria. [[Noise and lines from BSP.]] Madam President, please turn to the BSP and ask them for manners!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u12	Colleagues, please listen to each other! Please listen to each other! [[Noise and lines from BSP: "Liar! "]] Now, if he's lying, I can't judge, and I'm not a judge. Please! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u13	Next, a debt spiral. Dear colleagues, the debt spiral in Greece is a direct consequence of the long budget deficits that have been accumulated there, i.e. the budget deficit of the debt spiral, one is a direct consequence of the other. As a result of the fact that, for a year and a half of management, and including Budget 2016, the forecasts, the deficit is shrinking to 2%. This means that it is taken away, removed the risk, removed the risk of obtaining a debt spiral. Also, the most dangerous for stability from now on [[BSP lines and lines]] , colleagues, the most dangerous...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u14	Mr. Dimitrov, please just a moment! Colleagues, Mr. Naydenov, please don't make me personally one by one of the group, or at least those who are the most vocal [[BSP lines and lines]] Don't make me interrupt this meeting. It's a shame for parliament. We've just begun. Please! Go on, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u15	Next, the biggest risks to Budget 2016 are the ideas of BSP. One of them is to remove the flat tax and there will be a vote on this topic, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from BSP.]] This is the biggest risk to public finances and a serious test for the National Assembly. I am convinced that reason will prevail, at the very least, think about it, while these people were in power and all the power was in their hands, even they did not cancel the flat tax because they understand that even they understand that this would violate the stability of public finances. [[GERB lines.]] Now they're offering it out of purely populist intent. It must therefore be clear from now on that, if we want the stability of the state, finances and taxes, the flat tax should not be touched and should not be changed. Next, when a new loan is taken to repay an old loan, this does not result in an increase in total debt. When a lev debt is refinanced with a lev new debt, this does not lead to greater debt and this should not be speculated either. From now on, the administrative reform. If there is one thing in BSP's entire statement, one thing that is not a deception and a distortion of truth is that the administrative reform must be completed as we proposed it and asked for it. We said: 10% reduction in administrative costs. Somewhere this has been implemented, somewhere else it has not been properly implemented, so this should be part of the 2016 Strategy. For example: The Ministry of Internal Affairs "those employees who are administrators stand behind a desk and do not risk their lives on the street, there is no need not to be - they should be a third category of work. This reform has not been made in the last 25 years and it is high time to complete it and will really cut costs. It is also right for the staff who can be retired to be completed and for this reform to be completed. And finally, colleagues, it is not fair that the one who crashed the car, those in whose mandate the CCB went bankrupt, those who allowed the biggest record budget deficit to get up here and tell us what the budget should be. They tell us what the budget should be, it's just not fair. You should keep your mouth shut and thank yourself that there is now a ruling majority that solves your problems. [[BSP banks rumbling. Applause by GERB.]] You crashed the car, we're fixing it now. You should say thank you for sweeping behind us and solving Bulgaria's problems! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u16	Can we move on to the agenda? In yesterday's plenary session at first reading, we voted on several bills and two reports, respectively, of the Council for Electronic Media, for two periods we debated, and the report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency as their vote was postponed to today's plenary session, according to the order of including the drafts on the agenda. I put to the first vote the Public Procurement Bill with an importer of the Council of Ministers. Please vote, colleagues. They voted 104 MPs: 96, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. For the procedure Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u17	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Please allow for a motion to vote to extend the deadline for proposals under the Bill, which has just been adopted in the first vote, by two weeks. That is, the deadline for proposals to be three weeks from the adoption of the Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u18	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The next bill on which the debates have ended and are about to be voted is the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention by an importer of the Council of Ministers. I put this bill to the first vote. Voted 103 MPs: 88, none, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. The next bill, with debates closing yesterday and voting for today, is the bill amending and supplementing the Animal Protection Act. I put this bill to the first vote. They voted 107 MPs: 98 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. I put to the first vote the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Roads Act. The debates were closed yesterday and a vote was announced for this plenary sitting. Vote 97 MPs: 95, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the first vote the bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Austria on cooperation in the fields of culture, education, science and youth. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Ms. Grozdanova's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u19	Madam President, Members, I propose that the so proposed ratification be adopted at a second vote in today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u20	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for simultaneous voting in a plenary sitting at first and second reading of the specific ratification. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The motion is accepted. We are listening to the second vote report, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u21	Dear colleagues! THE LAW OF THE ratifying the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Austria for cooperation in the field of culture, education, Science and Youth A single member. It ratifies the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Austria on cooperation in the fields of culture, education, science and youth, signed on 12 February 2015 in Sofia. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u22	Statements? I won't. We are voting at second reading on the ratification bill. Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. ) (a.k.a. 7 reports on the activities of the Electronic Media Board for the period from 1 January 2014 are discussed in the weekly programme. " 30 June 2014 and a second Report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 July 2014" .. 31 December 2014............................................................................................. I recall the draft decisions of the Committee on Culture and Media, which will be put to the vote: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 2014 30 June 2014 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 39, para. 1 of the Law on Radio and Television HAS DECIDED Adopts the report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 2014. 30 June 2014 Voting mode, please. Vote 88 MPs: 64 against 13, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. First negative vote, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u23	Madam President, I voted against it for both the first half of the year and for the second I will vote against it and not so much for the Council's report on its activities as for the Council's activities. This formation over the years has become an absolutely unnecessary and pointless structuring of this activity. With or without the Council for Electronic Media, the situation in the Bulgarian media, as it is today, would not change. I therefore believe that the Council for Electronic Media spends absolutely unnecessary and parasitic public funds. With his previous work without any result, he is worthy of being shortened, and this would be a manifestation of true reformation instead of pro-forma reformation. Absolutely ineffective, without any consequences, without any results of regulation. That's why I'm against the report, but I'm really against the activity and existence of this parasitic organ.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u24	For the second negative vote, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u25	Thank you, Madam President. This report was about 130 pages. If it was 106, it would just point to our place in the Freedom of Speech ranking. For ten years, since the CEM is led by the current President, we from 34th place in freedom of speech are currently at 106th. Media cartels, media bats have been admitted, and anyone who speaks in any other way than usual can tell him what will happen to him from personal experience. I believe that the best step, if we really want there to be freedom in Bulgaria, is the dissolution of the CEM and the investigation of its chairman for patronizing certain media cartels and, of course, the twisting of the hands of those who would like to tell the truth. I think that would be a very good step to really have freedom. I think it would be great hypocrisy here for us to accept any report, even more positive. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u26	For the third negative vote, please, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u27	Madam President, honourable Members! I also voted against. The arguments of Mr. Bozhinov and Mr. Binev are absolutely adequate. The SEM isn't doing anything at all. It has become a port for pensioners to receive good wages and privileges and who take no responsibility for anything but, on the contrary, perform political orders. The last case was with the so-called "Radio Kardzhali" which stirred up the spirits in society and was tried to push itself absolutely in violation. The attempt to sneak in this license was made quietly in the middle of the summer, not to be noticed by anyone, but when we reacted, the Chairman of the Council for Electronic Media began to take positions that contradict both normal morality and public opinion and apparently served certain close political party interests. For this reason, I voted against this report with a clear awareness that this body is absolutely unnecessary in its current form, with the current people. By the way, three members of the CEM have expired a long time ago. That's why it's the parliament's fault that it doesn't cancel...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u28	Expired.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u29	Expired a long time ago. Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. [[Applause by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] I therefore believe that this body must either be reformed or it must be closed down. And since this body is involved in Parliament once a year, I voted against its report. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u30	"Project" DECISION in the report on the activities of the Electronic Media Council for the period from 1 July 2014 to 31 December 2014 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 39, para. 1 of the Law on Radio and Television HAS DECIDED It shall adopt the report on the activities of the Electronic Media Council for the period 1 July 2014. " 31 December 2014" Voting mode. 90 MPs voted: 56, against 23, abstentioned 11. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u31	Negative vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u32	What's the negative vote if there's no... [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] But the decision is not accepted!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u33	It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u34	I've decided that someone will want a re-vote before then. Let's finish the re-voting procedure. Revoting, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u35	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! I'm making a procedural proposal to re-vote. I think some colleagues have failed to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u36	Revoting, coworkers. Vote 98 MPs: 54, Against 28, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u37	Negative vote. [[GERB lines.]] I'll explain the vote, not the decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u38	First negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Perhaps we should first say that a negative vote is explained. The decision is not accepted, but the negative vote is a fact. It is indicative that the report for the second half of the year is not exactly accepted [[GERB's loud noise and lines]] because the deterioration of the media environment is a process and its degradation this year has gained its peak points. I will give you examples and give you examples of media environment, ethics in media regulation. [[Shouts from GERB.]] Are you aware that censorship is returning to Bulgaria? If you don't know, I'm telling you and I can illustrate it. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Are you aware that many of the media are used for mass manipulation? I will give you examples of how this happens, especially in the election period, where almost everything has been paid, but there are no authors of publications aimed at discrediting certain candidates. [[GERB lines.]] Yeah, the names you're quoting correctly. No authors are quoted, but it suggests that this is some kind of independent investigation, which, however, does not have an author. Nowhere in these, on the one hand, advertising or exposing publications, there is no author to put his name on and say that he is the person who writes. There is not even an agreement that this is an opinion which engages in the editing of the relevant edition. Who are they hiding behind? Or are you about to turn the journalistic profession into humiliating? Because even if someone writes what they want or thinks, they can't come out the way they are. I will not comment on the other media, especially the electronic media, for which there should be greater regulation and to ask whether there really is any competition, or behind many hidden owners there are the same persons and the same interests, the same ones, the same manipulations, the same suggestions. This is today's media environment, but so it will be until the economy, politics and the media are somewhat separated from each other. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u40	Second negative vote Mr. Binev, third vote Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u41	I'll take this opportunity to say something to explain my negative vote. With all due respect to Mr. Stoilov, because we are good acquaintances, I want to tell you that in your time it was exactly the same. [[Reply of Yanaki Stoilov.]] Your speech discredits the idea at all and it is not about the left or the right. Here we are the people who really need to decide how to lead from here on out, to open media freedom. At your time, a man who has had problems with you and with the people of...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u42	Is that a line to make the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u43	Do what you want. I'm telling you that your statement discredits the idea that there is a problem in...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u44	You are in a procedure to explain your personal negative vote. And the other is a debate that was closed yesterday.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u45	I think it became clear that this is a serious problem and does not depend on the stones on the right, depends on all of us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u46	Mr. Zablyanov, third negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u47	I'm not doing a douche bag.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u48	Well done.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u49	Colleagues, I'm asking you more seriously for the authority of the Assembly! Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u50	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted negatively with the clear awareness that the vast majority of public opinion in Bulgaria is convinced of the exceptional distortion of the media about their objectivity, in terms of their commercialization, in terms of the concentration of ownership in the oligarchic circles. What happened to the checks on the ownership and transparency of the media in Bulgaria, with the findings of the European Commission? What happened to those checks? Meanwhile, several major deals have taken place that have strengthened the concentration of ownership in the media, increased the opaqueness, turned the journalistic profession, which should be a service to citizens, a servant of oligarchy and the executive.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u51	Who, who?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u52	That's the one!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u53	Who, who, who?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u54	They turned the media into direct participants in the elections. Because I see that Mr. Lozanov is looking with interest at the debate, to tell him about their Council to start recommending to register a bTV party, a new TV party, and to participate in the elections instead of doing it as media. Stop faking the election results before the official results come out, and that's what the media is doing. Where is the CEM in this situation? Where are the findings, where is the control, where is the regulation? What is reflected in these powdered pages here that you're offering us? I support the proposal to close down the CEM. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Parasitic organ, spending the state's money, and I want the support of the government.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u55	Colleagues, I'm already embarrassed to call for order in this House. In the manner of holding Mr. Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u56	Madam President, I'm taking a procedure in the manner of conduct. I took it a little late, but good thing I did, 'cause I had to get up twice. The first thing I would like to draw your attention to is that we in Parliament are reasonable enough, professionally seated people, knowing your rights and obligations, and it is not necessary that you, as a souffler from the stands, urge the MPs to re-vote, whether they want a re-vote, get in the uncomfortable position to say it three times, wait half a minute for someone to think that maybe there will be some re-voting and only then it will come out. It's not pretty this thing, we're wasting more time, which is already valuable to us. The second thing I want to tell you is that when someone comes out here, you made a remark to him, but you should have taken him away, expressed a negative vote, he should have expressed his own opinion, not made a debrief of the speaker before him, said what he said, why he said it and how he said it. So please, stick to the rules and at the same time introduce order and discipline, because all of us at the moment, I see that we are a little pre-electionally agitated, if I can use that word, calm us down and give us no opportunity to display bad temper. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov, I'll do my best. Mr. Mestan's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Debates on the CEM report are serious enough to allow them to become part of the election campaign of parliamentary political forces between the first and second rounds. We've heard all kinds of charges against the regulator.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u59	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u60	In this sense, we are not that we are uncritical, but there is a need for a sober, objective assessment of the content of the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u61	The procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u62	Are you suggesting? I'm justifying a procedure! Are you not aware that any procedure must be justified?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u63	Please don't enter into dialogue from a place...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u64	That's the point of parliamentaryism, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u65	...with MPs who make procedural proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u66	That's the point of parliamentaryism! If you're only here, come on, vote and we leave, that's not my understanding of parliamentaryism. [[Applause from DPS.]] I therefore propose that we release the debate from the emotions of the election situation and postpone the debate on the adoption of the CEM report for next week, [[speaking indistinctly]] when the second round of the election will have passed. My procedure is to end the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u67	Mr. Mestan, the debate on the two reports of the regulator took place in yesterday's session and the vote was postponed for today. There was a vote, Mr. Kazak asked for a re-vote, which is why we are finally done with this point. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u68	Thank you, Madam President. I realize that we are about to run out of the weekly program, but we have just learned from the media that an attack has taken place in Sofia. In this regard, I ask you to take the necessary action in plenary to invite Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova to provide information on the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u69	Please look for the Home Secretary. There is a request for a hearing in plenary. Point eight: REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE BULGARIAN TELEGRAPHIC AGENCY, INCLUDING AND FINANCIAL REPORT FOR MONTHS JANUARY This Decision shall Importer is the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. The debate was closed yesterday. I suggest to your attention: "Project" DECISION on the activity report of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial statement, for the period 1 January 2014 .. 31 December 2014............................................................................................. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 and para. 4 of the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency HAS DECIDED He accepted the report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial statement, for the period 1 January 2014. " 31 December 2014" They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. With regard to the request for a hearing with the Home Secretary, I am announcing an interruption so I can contact Mrs. Bachvarova. The break will be 25 minutes until 10:30. Before that, a message to the Members of the National Assembly. At 11.30 pm, in the regular holiday today was planned and will be held the opening of an exhibition of the Russian University: a dimension of the present, trajectories of the future and related to the 70th anniversary of the University of Ruse Angel Kanchev. All MPs were invited at 11:30. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u70	Colleagues, please take your seats. The hearing is ongoing. With regard to the request for a hearing of the Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova, she is in the Chamber and can do so. Mrs. Bachvarova, we're listening!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u71	Madam President, honourable Members. I understand your interest in recent events, I share your concern and I fulfil my responsibility to inform you. In this short period of time from the event that has excited you, I can give you the following information so far. At 8:54 p.m., 112 received information that in the district of Krstova vada bul. Black Peak 67, behind the EKO gas station, shot at Alexei Petrov's car. The signal was issued by a security guard who wasn't at work right now. Probably the act was committed 10-15 minutes earlier, and the signal was issued with a delay, which is common practice to remove the endangered person from the scene. Police officers were sent immediately and found to have been shot with an RPG. No injuries were found. There are damage to the vehicle externally, and to a temporary structure whose purpose is being clarified. There are about 20 employees at the moment. A review is being carried out under the supervision of a prosecutor and immediately a closing event is organized on the territory of Sofia and the entire country for the search of a vehicle which was found to have been at the scene. There are witnesses who are currently being questioned. That's the information I can give you. We are actively working on this case and the prosecution will determine its character. It is not in the interest of the investigation to maintain the leak of information and the provision of it, but we are now reading it entirely as a criminal act. There's evidence that Alexei Petrov was with his security detail. We'll find out how many there were, but no casualties were found. The place where it happened is not close to his home. This area is in fact under-inhabited. These are all the facts we have at the moment that I can provide you with.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-29.u72	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have held debates and votes on the agenda scheduled for this plenary week, after consulting colleagues of the Conference of Presidents earlier today, I announce the next regular plenary session of the National Assembly on November 4, Wednesday, 2015, starting at 9.00 pm. I remind you that this is the first Wednesday for November. Our program is formed with proposals from the parliamentary groups in the order of rotation, then from 12.00. It's a blitz control. Again, I invite the MPs at 11.30 to be considered invited to the opening of an exhibition in the northern lobby in connection with the 70th anniversary of the University of Ruse. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
