ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, according to our weekly programme, today is dedicated entirely to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 26 May 2015 from: - MP Dragomir Velkov Stoynev to Bozhidar Lukarski, Minister of Economy, on the development of military technologies and the production of military equipment in the Republic of Bulgaria. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 5 June 2015; - People's Representative Dragomir Velkov Stoynev to Bozidar Lukarski, Minister of Economy, on the policy regarding the state participation in the enterprises of the Ministry of Economy system. The reply should be made in writing by 5 June 2015. Written answers for service by: - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a request from the National Representative Ivan Cholakov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Mustafa Ahmed; - Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreev; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov on a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreev; - Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov on a question from the National Representative Jemma Grozdanova; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Emil Raynov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Cornelia Marinova; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Vladimirov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Petar Kanev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Stefani Mikhailova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Ivan Stankov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the MPs Svetlin Tanchev and Borislav Iglev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov and Mehmed Ataman; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva on a question from the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva on a question from the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev. Control will begin with a statement from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. The word is Mr. Mestan, chairman of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our understanding of political correctness and valor obliges us, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, to express a political assessment of two legislative initiatives which are a ray of light in the tunnel in the language of hatred that the country's political life has recently entered. One comes from the right with the legislative initiative of Mr. Metodi Andreev and a group of MPs to amend and supplement the Penal Code on the limitation of a certain category of crimes against peace and humanity, an attack on the civil population and a group of crimes committed by the previous totalitarian regime, including the crime. The other ray of light comes from the left with the legislative initiative of the National Representative Georgi Kadiev, which proposes the withdrawal of the discriminatory text, or an amendment in the text of art. 181, para. 1 of the Election Code, with a proposal to add a sentence two, which essentially overcomes a discrimination that exists only in Bulgaria among the member states of the European Union. I respect these two legislative initiatives and, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we strongly expect that both the other Members of Parliament, outside of the speakers, from both the right and the left, will mature to the need to support the legislative initiatives of the importers. I declare in advance that we, as a centrist liberal party, will support both legislative initiatives and I believe that the adoption of these two acts will be an important sign, an important touch on the European image of Bulgaria, with which this image will be partially rehabilitated because it has suffered heavily from the language of hatred, especially in recent months. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u3	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. Can we start with the questions to Mrs. Bachvarova? The first question is the MP Maya Manolova about the conditions and pay of the work of the seconded policemen at the Bulgarian-Turkish border. Mrs. Manolova, you have an opportunity to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u4	Honourable Members, Madam President, Mrs Deputy Prime Minister! Closely two years on the Bulgarian-Turkish border are seconded officers of the Ministry of Interior It is clear why.. because of the refugee pressure. Unfortunately, however, this initial temporary measure has become permanent and temporary miserable working conditions have become permanent miserable working conditions, which make seconded border guards miserable, humiliatingly low pay. What they've shared with me, what they can afford with the reduced posting £150. By the way, for 15 days, they're staying in old, abandoned buildings, hospitals, tents. People often find themselves without money in the pocket because of the delay in the pay and of these missionary, or as they were desperately joking: The working arrangements for the protection of the border from posted employees are more miserable than the conditions in refugee camps that are close to the border. That's what the posted border patrols shared with me. I suppose you have an idea of this, although your predecessor, Minister of the Interior, is telling this story, when visiting the border saw a tent with very good conditions, only that tent was stretched specifically for the Minister's visit and after his departure from the border it was taken back and the people left to work, to rest...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u5	Mrs. Manolova, your question, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u6	...in tents that don't really provide a normal opportunity for labor. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u7	The question, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u8	My question to you is: will you change the working conditions and pay, first? Secondly, will you look for a more general solution to this problem, including by hiring permanent employees, additional numbers to take on this highly responsible task of preserving the Bulgarian-Turkish border?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Here's your answer, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u10	Dear Mr. Tsochev, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, dear Mrs. Manolova! I won't tell stories from this tribune. I have personally made sure of the conditions for the work of the Bulgarian border guards at the border. On the basis of the claim that they live in unbearable conditions, I can say that only in Elhovo are there 1500 seats in the local hotels created in the last year, and there is a competition for which of the employees to be invited there, meaning they have the opportunity to choose because they are all built in recent years and the conditions are extremely good. As far as the posting policy is concerned, it is currently the most acceptable policy in view of budgetary security and guaranteeing the security of citizens. The number of seconded personnel is reduced. The first such specialized operation years ago was with twice as many participants. Currently, they are almost half of 400 and several, rotting every two weeks. The funds are paid regularly and I will leave you with reference to the dates on which the employees were posted and the dates of the transfer of the money to them are within the established time limits of the business trip itself. Of course, we are also looking for other options to ensure border security. The monthly budget that the Ministry allocates for missionaries is about 1 million 200,000. This is a large amount that we are trying to reduce in several ways without jeopardizing security guarantees at the border. Competitions have been announced for 200 border guards to be permanently stationed along the border, but they are currently running. A slightly longer period of training is needed. We have negotiated with the Academy of the Ministry of Interior accelerated forms of training for these employees and I hope that by the end of the year we will give them the opportunity to be appointed there. As far as the Ministry of Interior's commitments are concerned, transport is required from employees' offices to places of business, entirely at the expense of the Ministry of Interior. Posted employees shall be provided with toning drinks for the work shift of tea, coffee, and daily ones shall be paid within the established time limits. There are no delays in the transfers from the Ministry of Interior. I can tell you that yesterday I signed an order for 104,000. lv. benefits for the loved ones of the dead only two weeks ago policemen in a car accident.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Mrs. Manolova, come in for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u12	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u13	The map, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u14	I don't know what hotel a guy can afford with 10 lv. posting per day. One hundred and fifty leva for 15 days. These are missionaries for food and accommodation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u15	How many were there?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u16	The official transport that carries the border police to the Bulgarian-Turkish border is good, but unfortunately, the time for transport from the Gueshevo and Altomantsi border in my region is more than six hours. These six hours of travel to and from the border are not counted as border patrol hours. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Subsequently, they must give additional shifts in order to earn their respective regulations, to receive at least a normal salary. After the last tragic incident I think that the Ministry should take measures and accept the time for transport for working hours, because otherwise the accidents that have been happening lately should really have a problem with Bulgarian legislation from a purely legal point of view. I also thank you on their behalf for paying the compensation, because this was one of the huge concerns of the families of the dead two border police officers from Kyustendil, literally 20 days ago. In fact, the great tension among border police is after this tragic incident when people who are overtired after 15 days of traveling on the border, under these conditions I do not strengthen the crane, have lost their lives in a tragic accident, returning to their homeland. At the moment, although I am an opposition MP, I have made a commitment and I say to you: I will support all your legislative, organisational and financial decisions to improve the working conditions of the seconded border guards. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u17	The weather, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u18	Please don't interrupt me. [[Sighs:.]] To finish my sentence. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Moreover, I will support all your proposals for the appointment of additional staff, because now two million is worth the posting of border guards, and with this money...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u19	I'm interrupting, Mrs. Manolova. Please. [[Sighs:.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u20	...new employees can be appointed from an area with a very high unemployment rate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u21	I beg you to follow the rules, Mrs. Manolova. [[Reply of National Representative Maya Manolova.]] I'm begging you!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova, for all the support you promised. I hope you will support the increase in the budget of the Ministry of Interior when we get to this phase. In order to avoid misunderstandings and not to mislead Bulgarian citizens and honourable MPs, the amount that the Ministry of Interior gives for accommodation is BGN 20, but because of the overproposal in Elhovo some of the owners offer BGN 10 as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. We are moving on to a question from the MP Desislav Slavov Chukolov concerning the actions of the Ministry of Interior in the municipality of Garmen. Here you go, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! As we all know, it may be a week since the events that took place in Garmen have troubled the entire nation. I asked here at the National Assembly on Wednesday as a topic to vote to call you, to listen to you, to inform the people's representation of what is really happening in this municipality, in these villages, because in the end we have to show that there is a state. What we keep hearing from Garmen is that there is no country. What we as lawmakers here, as MPs, must show the Bulgarian society, is that there is a state. Prime Minister Boyko Borisov has been silent for more than a week now, does not concern this topic. Now I'm glad you're here to answer what really happened in the town of Garmen. Perhaps some of you are aware that if not, let me inform you, at the end of April, of the Ataka Party, we issued a statement to the media, in which we warned, we issued a warning to our sympathizers, to the members of Ataka Party, not to participate in ethnic conflicts. It's just that we've known since then, we felt that there was going to be a conflict like this. I'm telling you again, that was the end of April this year. Here, at the end of May we witnessed this. My question to you, Madam Interior Minister, is what did your leadership of the Ministry do to prevent this conflict from collapsing? It is clear that in these small towns there are not enough policemen, there are no people who observe order, there are no people who require citizens to behave properly and not to come to such conflicts. But still, the local authorities in the municipality, in the district directorate, on the district level, did they know that something like this was being prepared? Did they know that that day would happen, and when that happened, how did they react? How many arrests are there? How many established instigators are there? What kind of prophylaxis was done? Was there a prosecutor there, was there enough police, quick proceedings and so on? We know here that in the center of Sofia, at certain events, there is a huge police force being thrown down. Those who call them Roboscopes go out into the streets and simply remove anyone who imagines that they can...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u25	Your time is up!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u26	My question to you: how many are in custody, how many are in the town of Garmen?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. Come in for an answer, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u28	Dear Mr. Tsochev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Chukolov, thank you for your question. I have an opportunity to inform you of what the Ministry of Interior has done about this incident. It's a bit of an accident for me. I was there, and I had a chance to find out what happened. However, there is too much political speculation around this domestic incident and an attempt to qualify it as an ethnic conflict, which it is not at the moment. Since the beginning of the incident, 23 May 2015, the following measures have been taken by the Ministry of Interior. First, in the area of the Roma district is provided 24-hour security of public order by police officers and officers of the gendarmerie. As of the evening after the incident, residents of Garmen organized civil disobedience, expressing themselves in limiting the movement of vehicles. The organised 24-hour security in the area of nearly 70 people has not allowed the committing of a crime or disorder of public order. During the actions 10 persons were detained for a period of 24 hours in a unit of the Ministry of Interior, 13 police warning protocols are drawn up under art. 65. Pre-trial proceedings have been initiated against the offenders and every day all procedural actions are reported and agreed with the District Prosecutor's Office in Gotse Delchev, to which I would like to thank for the rapid reaction. In the framework of yesterday, May 27, 2015, at the direction of the monitoring prosecutor, 5 persons were attracted as accused, including the instigators of Roma origin who threw stones at the residents of Garmen. Two people were detained, one of them was detained within 72 hours, in order to bring him before the court in connection with a request to impose a measure of non-violence and the second person was detained in the city of Shumen, pending his convoy today to the district government in Gotse Delchev and indictment. Four persons have been subject to measures for non-reviation of a monetary guarantee from 250 to 500 BGN, accusations on art. 131 for minor bodily harm and hooliganism. Up to now, 374 persons present in the territory have been checked for address registration in the neighborhood of Kremikovtsi, and no violations of registration have been identified for them. There are also checked available cars, all with regular documents, paid tax and insurance. It can be assumed that if there really were illegal residents in the district of Kremikovtsi, who mainly complain about the residents of Garmen, they have already left the region and there is no way to punish them. Secretary General Georgi Kostov and I were on the ground, we had talks with both sides in the conflict and our efforts were to focus them on finding the best form for restoring the dialogue and the good relations they had, for which both of them and the other party claim to have existed. I think we should continue in this direction because the more important prevention is to teach these people to work. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] You will allow me to say a little more because of the increased interest. The mayor of the municipality is waiting to calm down to install video surveillance. The most important thing I want to tell you is that these are the measures we are taking at the moment to control the situation. Today, in writing, I propose to my fellow ministers that we adopt a decree to restore the work of the Council for the fight against conventional crime, in which all ministers will participate, and I hope that we will make common decisions on the prevention of domestic crime there.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Here's a line, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. After all, from your visit to the village of Garmen, all we've learned is that you've been booed. Now, here we have very detailed information. The information that I have in my possession, yes, somehow coincides with yours, is that yesterday in Shumen he was arrested as an instigator one of the leaders of the Bulgarian community in the municipality Anton Baltadzhiev, defending himself, his family and property. If it's called incitement, what kind of country are we? That's the question we have to ask ourselves! It's a good thing there's enough police force there. However, my question is: are there any instigators established? Because such a situation could ignite anywhere in Bulgaria. Here the state must demonstrate its hardness. You're saying that these Roma who live illegally in the neighborhood are no longer there, they're somewhere else. Now will we expect this to happen elsewhere, in another part of Bulgaria? You know this problem really exists, and it's been there for years. The Council of the Council of Ministers, which you said would restore work, is this council that was responsible for Roma inclusion, which should have ended this year. Did this thing happen? It's been years! The previous Deputy Prime Minister, who was also Minister of Interior in the government of GERB Tsvetan Tsvetanov, headed this council. Did this Roma turn-on happen? Here we are now dealing with the big problem of domestic crime, which in most part is actually gypsy. When we have spoken these things from Ataka, always media, journalists and commentators have said how bad we are. We're bad because we're telling the truth. That's right. Believe me, such palliative measures, video surveillance and so on, will not work. Here it really must be demonstrated that there is a country and I sincerely hope that you do so.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. Here you go, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u32	Dear Mr. Chukolov, you probably didn't hear very well. Among the five persons detained are the found instigators for the 23rd incident, those who participated in the throwing of stones. I would like to add that, following an analysis of the work of police officers and an assessment of their activities, a decision was made to change the management of the District Department and the police station in Garmen. Personally, I am convinced that video surveillance is one of the effective preventive measures for crimes, so I don't consider it formal. The Roma inclusion council is not within my jurisdiction. The Council for which I expect there to be a solution today is to prevent and combat conventional crime. Such a council was established at the end of 2012, but it has not begun to function because of political changes. It will be attended by representatives of all ministries, the Association of Municipalities, who will constantly monitor the state of domestic crime and propose measures.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova, for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are going to answer one question and two questions to Minister Hristo Ivanov. The first question is from the MPs Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev and Filip Stefanov Popov regarding the overall management and control of the activities in the implementation of the penalties. Who will develop the question? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u34	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My question to you, Mr. Minister, is related to the admission and implementation of bad practices in the course of the execution of penalties. The situation in this activity, which is under your control and management, is disturbing, and I would even say scandalous. It is possible to tolerate illegal food delivery without public procurement, which is currently being spent on perhaps 2.. 3 million a month, without legal contracts being concluded. In accordance with art. 10, para. 2 of the Law on the Execution of Punishments You are the authority that must organise the order for the conclusion of the contractual relations. As a senior authorising officer, you also have a responsibility with regard to secondary authorising officers. The question to you is absolutely specific. It's this. How long are you going to allow the Directorate-General for Punishment to spend budget funds, I stress, millions of levs a month, without legal contracts, without public procurement, as required by the law? I think that as Minister of Justice, you should be an example of compliance with the laws of the state. It's the exact opposite. Is there any official in charge at the Department who will be punished for this condition? What are you going to do to act the Directorate General in accordance with the laws?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u35	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Minister, please come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Georgiev and Mr. Popov, on whose behalf is also the question! Firstly, thank you for your shared concern. I hope this is a form of shared responsibility, as the situation we are commenting on has arisen in the previous government. I have to specify and take into account that the Directorate General is an independent legal entity and a private entity within the meaning of the Public Procurement Act. In accordance with art. 13, para. 2, p. 13 of the Punishment Act, the Director-General, awards public contracts under the terms and conditions of the Public Procurement Act and signs the necessary documentation in this respect. Each contracting entity shall be responsible for the proper and lawful award. The control shall be carried out by the Court of Auditors and the Agency for State Financial Inspection. Specific to the situation. As early as August 2014, I have alerted ADFI and entrusted the Department of Internal Audit to the Ministry of Justice to check the situation you described. ALPI subsequently carried out an inspection, including for the period 2014. The inspection report was received at the Ministry of Justice at the end of March this year. It found that the Directorate General for Punishment was conducting two negotiated procedures without notices under the Public Procurement Act, which were unlawful. The Director-General of DGIN shall be responsible for the implementation of acts of infringement. I must point out here and stress that we have examined the prosecution about this situation. I don't know if you know this, but the man who was in charge of the situation doesn't work with us anymore. Therefore, there are fines before the prosecution and we have separated from the responsible employee. The Ministry's internal audit also identified these violations. The other thing we've done is we've taken the situation very active, on manual control. We have established a joint working group between experts in the Ministry and DGIN, resulting in several new public procurements announced on 24 March. It should be borne in mind that we cannot stop the purchase of food, although the situation is illegal, because we have to feed these people and we cannot leave them without food. Several public procurements have been announced through open procedures, so I hope things will enter a legal regime. The orders are currently being appealed and we are waiting for a ruling by the competent authorities. Meanwhile, the Prime Minister has made a commitment to the Bulgarian producers in all public procurements to lay down a requirement for compliance with the Bulgarian State Standard, so now we will work to reflect this commitment in the terms of the contract. I share your concern about the particular situation and the situation in the closed case at all. We're trying to solve problems, many of which are years old. There are no innocents in this situation. I hope that the food situation will gradually enter not only in a legitimate but also in an appropriate blonde through the measures I take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u37	Thank you, Minister Ivanov. Mr. Georgiev, before I give you the floor for two supplementary questions, honourable MPs, guests of the National Assembly are MPs from the Republic of Poland, led by the Vice-President of Seima Jerzy Venderlich. The Polish guests are on a two-day visit to Bulgaria. Please welcome them to the Bulgarian Parliament. [[(Everyone's up. (Applause)]] I take this opportunity to announce that during the break at 10:40 am in the northern lobby of the National Assembly building an exhibition will be opened in and for independent Bulgaria. I invite you to the opening of the exhibition. Mr. Georgiev, come in for your two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u38	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Thank you for the answer that has given clarity and confirmed what we have put to you as a question that at the moment, people in places of punishment are actually being fed without legal contracts. My question to you is: Will you ensure that from now on the necessary measures are taken to ensure that the supply of food and food products is carried out in accordance with the laws in force in the country? Secondly, will you direct control in the conclusion of public procurement, because my information at this time is that the Supreme Administrative Court has also cancelled those announced public procurements, which you said were announced in March? Now we're back in a situation, yes, people have nothing to eat and have to eat. Funds are spent from the budget in millions of levs, and there is no legal procurement, if so, of course. Basically, the situation hasn't changed. I welcome you for seeking the responsibility of this civil servant who has led to this state, but perhaps there are others who are also failing to conduct public procurement in the legal order at the moment to stand this state of lawlessness and to spend public funds without regular contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u39	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u40	Mr. Georgiev, first of all, the short answer to your question is: I guarantee it! I guarantee not just here, stating it, but through the things I described to you. First of all, as you have noted, all forms of responsibility are realized. Secondly, the Ministry has included and assumed part of the responsibility for announcing the new public procurement. That's what's been announced. The information you have is a surprise to me. I called to verify and confirm the information, but the procurement has been appealed to the Commission for Protection of Competition. Until yesterday's pronouncement, then we checked there wasn't. We'll sort this out. However, even if it is canceled, we have absolute determination, Mr. Georgiev, this situation is still stressing not only to enter the field of legal requirements, but to become appropriate. This is a completely different conversation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u41	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Your attitude, Mr. Georgiev? No. Thank you. We move on to a question from the MP Maya Bozhidarova Manolova regarding the measures taken by the Ministry of Justice as a result of the checks carried out on the activities of the private judicial contractors. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u42	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen ministers, Mr. Ivanov! My question is about private judicial contractors or, in particular, about the control and sanctions that you, as Minister of Justice, impose on infringements by them of the procedural law. My question is about checks and sanctions, but in practice, it is a question of justice.................... when you are in debt and can't fulfill your duty, you should be maimed, abused, humiliated, ruined?! My question is what do court contractors afford to date thanks to the gaps in legislation and the lack of any control over the outrage they allow themselves to carry out during their activities. The reason for the question is the tens, the hundreds of people who turned to me after I introduced the Law on amendments to the Law on Private Judicial Contractors and the Civil Procedure Code. The outrage really is the most diverse and ruining people: citizens who have realized that their property has been sold to a priceless property because of a low valuation, which has accepted the private judicial contractor; citizens who have realized that they are subject to forced execution when a private judicial contractor has broken the lock to describe their property; a business that is ruined because of a debt of 1000 BGN. They've blocked all their accounts. Most of all, it touched me that there are people who for 20 leva. they are forced to pay 500 leva each. Here, I have a backup message I'm going to show you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u43	Your question, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u44	I'm done. It is clear that because of 20 leva. an obligation for the Internet, a worker in Kyustendil, who receives the minimum wage, has paid 504 BGN. And 20 cc's. through a private bailiff.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u45	Your question, Mrs. Manolova! Sorry, you're overreacting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u46	Only the fee of the private court contractor is BGN 198. 10 times the amount of the debt. My question to you is about the sanctions you imposed for such violations.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u47	Mr. Minister, please come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the Parliament, Dear Mrs. Manolova! First of all, let me congratulate you on your undivided attention to this important subject. Underneath it, there are indeed a great many human tragedies and humiliations to which we, as a country, must show attention. The Minister of Justice, unfortunately, has limited powers in this area. He shall exercise control over the activities of any judicial contractor through the inspectors from the Inspectorate of the Ministry of Justice under the Law on the Judiciary and through financial inspectors. The inspection shall be carried out by order of the Minister or by service, or on the occasion of an alert or complaint of the person concerned, as well as on a proposal from the Council of the Chamber of Private Judicial Contractors. What we can do is make recommendations to a certain private bailiff and to the House to remedy identified shortcomings. Where violations of the Law on Private Judicial Contractors and the Statute of the Chamber have been detected, the Minister of Justice shall draw up a reasoned proposal to seek disciplinary liability of the guilty private judicial contractor. Of course, disciplinary proceedings can also take place at the decision of the House itself. The disciplinary cases brought against private judicial contractors shall be dealt with by a composition of the disciplinary committee of the House. She judges and decides whether to impose disciplinary punishment. The Minister may appeal the decision. I would like to introduce you to specific statistics in response to your question. For 2014, the Ministry of Justice carried out 525 inspections. One hundred thirty-eight of them were carried out by financial inspectors, 387 were carried out by the Inspectorate under the Law of the Judiciary. Mrs. Manolova, at the moment, I am literally signing orders to carry out checks every day. Unfortunately, the capacity of the control authorities in the Ministry's system is quite limited. We are struggling a little, so that we do not allow staff cuts there, which will further reduce it because of budget constraints. As a result of the checks in 2014, 57 disciplinary requests were made by the Minister of Justice and a total of 75 disciplinary cases were initiated. Twelve of them are on their own initiative of the Chamber of Private Judicial Contractors, 57 at the initiative of the Minister. At present there are 60 of them in the House, of which 55 cases have been decided, 5 cases are still pending. The penalties are: reprimanding one number; fine from 100 to 10 thousand. lv. 20 pieces. Here we should note that the proceeds from these fines are included in the House's budget. Warning of temporary deprivation of capacity.. one issue; deprivation of capacity... three pieces. I have some more data I'll tell you when I respond to your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u49	Mrs. Manolova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u50	Honourable Members, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I suppose that from your response everyone has been convinced, and you cannot fail to understand that the system for the control and sanctioning of the judicial contractors for violations committed in their activities is, to put it mildly ineffective, I would say, even absurd, because in the end, the Chamber of Justice itself determines the size and type of penalties imposed. Agree that 100 BGN fine for a private court contractor who has collected 200 BGN as a fee from a worker who owes 20 BGN for the Internet is really funny, absurd and absolutely ineffective. In this regard, I would like to suggest that you review the regulations that operate in the Ministry to control the activities of private judicial contractors, because if the state in your person does not properly show them that they cannot abuse Bulgarian citizens, there will really be no change in their activities. In addition, I call on you to support the bill that we and our fellow Members from the Patriot Front for amendments to the Civil Procedure Code, for appeal to the assessments which determine private judicial contractors, for reducing their fees, for improving the call, for the protection of debtors. Since there has been a serious wavering over the adoption of excessive legislative measures to suppress private judicial execution, we will also rely on your support as a representative of the Bulgarian government. Because judicial reform, without reforming enforcement, will be nothing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u52	Dear Mrs. Manolova, I just wanted to finish the statistics I wanted to give you. In 29 cases, the disciplinary panel has rejected or has not imposed punishment. Twenty-four of these decisions have been appealed before the Supreme Court of Cassation by the Minister. I agree, Mrs. Manolova, that this control system is inadequate and inadequate. It is in the spirit of what you have said that at the moment there is a working group in the Ministry of Justice that is doing a comprehensive review of the control system and we will come up with concrete proposals, I hope, within about a month, for its amplification. I have to say something else. We are working with the House of Private Judicial Artists, because let's not put everyone under a common denominator. There are a huge majority of professionals who are doing their work conscientiously and the House is now willing to cooperate with our efforts, so I think we can look for a more consistent approach. Let me say that the reform of private judicial execution is, of course, very important, but let us not say that everything without it is nothing. I understand why such lines are being used, but still.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u53	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Question from MP Vili Mladenov Lilkov on the implementation of the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons. Mr. Lykov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my question concerns the implementation of the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons. According to this Law, within three months of submitting an application to the so-called Central Commission under art. 4 of the Law. It should be within three months to decide and, respectively, within 14 days to acquaint the requesting rehabilitation with its decision. At the moment, the National Union of Repressed has sent a sharp protest that files have been delayed for years and, according to their reports, around 2000 are files waiting for a solution. For example, only in the district of Burgas 19 files are waiting for a 2009 decision. When I was preparing my question, I tried to find somewhere public information about the activities of the so-called Central Commission. I couldn't find any record of her activity anywhere. And in this regard, I ask the following question to you, Mr. Minister, namely: how many files are currently being worked on and how many files are being worked on in the Central Commission? What is their number and how are they distributed by districts? What will you personally do to speed up her work? What is her budget, what state does she have and what opportunities? What really must we do to be able to solve the problem of these people who have been waiting for many years and cannot get absolutely no information about how the Commission works and what is expected to happen in the coming years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u55	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Lilkov, before I answer your questions specifically, allow me to say that the work of the Commission and its organisation has not been adequate to the high public value which represents the effort to compensate for the tragedies experienced by these people. In this sense, what I am about to tell you is the current situation, but we will make efforts to show a noticeable improvement in this regard, we will be in direct contact. I would be very happy to comment in particular. A little context. The law delegates powers to the Central Commission to establish precisely defined facts and circumstances the basis, nature and duration of the repression. The Commission shall decide by reasoned decision recognising the existence or absence of legal repression and its duration. Directly on your question "The unviewed files from 2010 until now are 414. I have a breakdown by both years and by districts. It'll take me a long time to read it, but I'll give it to you. I will tell you only by years: 2010 is 107 pieces, 2011. - 108 pieces, 2012 - 118 pieces, 2013 ==References=====External links==* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings, "Further readingsandings"* "Further readingsanding"* For this delay, which is available, there are the following main reasons: there are accumulated, as you can see, a large number of old and unattended applications, repeated amendments to the Law, inadequate budget and administrative capacity, and you note in your question. There are, of course, numerous cases of incomplete completion of the files, should be returned, additional documents should be required. These are, of course, normal things. However, we must bear in mind that, for the same period, the Commission has examined 3500 files, that is, there is still one significant number that has been examined. The Commission is six-member and has four experts. The Commission's annual remuneration budget is BGN 48 960, below 50 thousand. lv. Of course, the number of experts and the budget is not adequate. Unfortunately, however, we are in the process of very serious cuts in the budget of the Ministry. With regard to the publicity of the information, we are definitely critique here as there is no explicit requirement in the Law for the Commission to publicly govern its decisions. Indeed, her work is not transparent enough. We are currently developing a Single Register of all its decisions, so after its development we expect every decision to be announced on the Ministry's website, as well as for a past period to resolve this problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u57	Thank you, Minister Ivanov. Here's your line, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u58	Thank you for your answer, Minister Ivanov. I would like to say that the creation of a site where information comes from which people who have submitted their applications know what is going on with their case file is not at all a problem and a question of a large budget. It's something that's basically created. More specifically, there must be some desire. Now this is what happens. I have a reception in Burgas on Monday. One of the questions that I have been asked by the people who are waiting for me there is: what is happening to their files since 2009. 19 case files. And now I have to go to Burgas and tell them this instead of them learning it and knowing from one, I would say, a simple site. I would very much ask you to make an effort to speed up the work of the Commission, because this is absolutely insulting. A man repressed 50 years ago was in camps where he was taken away from property, was in prisons, waiting for a Commission to decide whether he should be rehabilitated for five years!? People don't wait for money. They just want rehab and a simple excuse. This must be done, not spent so much resource, waiting for years for a Commission to be unable to decide a person based on the documents that he has presented, whether he has been repressed or not. Excuse me, I know that this reproach should not be to you, but if you do this work, piled up by carefree ministers before that, I will personally thank you from this tribune. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u59	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Mr. Minister's doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u60	Mr. Lilkov, we are working on a register from which this information can be created. I assure you that very soon it will be available online. I absolutely agree with you. Here the question is not which minister is responsible. The Bulgarian state must show respect and respect to these people because it is due to them. I have the determination to deal with all these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Ivanov, thank you for your participation in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to the answers to two questions addressed to Mrs. Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs. The first question is from the MP Stanislav Todorov Stanilov about the lack of capacity in the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad to carry out their tasks. Here you go, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u62	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I address you in your capacity of monitoring the activities of the Agency for Bulgarians abroad. The conflict in Ukraine brings out or should at least put the question of the fate of our compatriots who have been living in this territory for two centuries. I would remind you that according to the 2001 census the Bulgarians in Ukraine were 204 thousand. 600 people. This number does not include Ukrainian citizens with Bulgarian roots, of which one of the parents, grandparents or grandfathers is Bulgarian, nor the gagauzes with Bulgarian self-consciousness. According to the General Bulgarian Committee, there were 11 Bulgarians killed in Ukraine, two of whom were burned alive in Odessa and those who became are facing political and economic uncertainty. We can't not be concerned about their destiny. A long time ago, Prime Minister Borisov announced the establishment of a Coordination Centre to serve as a link with Ukrainian Bulgarians and to be located in the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad. It should help address the humanitarian needs of communities in the conflict zone. There were other cabinet members who said strong words. Against this background, I was surprised to learn that almost half a year at the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad there was not even a reference for Ukraine, and currently the work is done by a collaborator who is responsible for many other countries. This is not a sign of priority attention from the state. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: what measures will you take to strengthen the capacity of the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad, especially with regard to working with Ukrainian Bulgarians? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u63	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Here you are, Mrs. Kuneva, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u64	Dear Mr. People's Representative, from the beginning of the conflict in Ukraine, as you have noticed, there is a very clear sign that the Bulgarian Government wants to engage and does so through the Agency for Bulgarians abroad to make our best efforts, of course, within the Agency's powers, to solve the problems of our compatriots in Ukraine. The results at the moment I want you to meet are as follows: On 16 February a Coordination Centre of the Agency for Contact with Bulgarians in Ukraine was established. The same day was organized a press conference with the participation of the President of the Association of Bulgarians in Ukraine Mr. Anton Kisse. Two premises of the Agency are provided for the Coordination Centre, equipped with computers and telephones, and a place is also provided for representatives of the Association of Bulgarians in Ukraine. A special telephone line and e-mail was launched in the Agency, published on its website, through which Bulgarians from Ukraine to contact the Center. Two meetings of the Coordination Centre have been held so far. Six ministries of foreign affairs, internal affairs, justice, labour and social policy, regional development and public works, health care, as well as SANS, the Agency for Refugees, the National Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Red Cross are involved. The administration, coordination and costs of the Centre are covered by the Agency. A senior expert from the Directorate-General of the Bulgarian Communities and informational activity of the Agency, the referee for Ukraine, Greece, Cyprus and the Central European countries took part in his work. The Centre performs coordination and information functions, the attitudes of our compatriots in Ukraine are taken into account and adequate steps are proposed to solve their problems. From the analysis of the applications received, there are two main issues for solving which I would like to share with you: firstly, facilitating the conditions for obtaining visas for long-term and permanent residence and, secondly, sending humanitarian aid. The following specific steps have been implemented so far: - direct communication with the Bulgarian companies from Crimea, Zaporozhka and Odessa districts, systematize and update the problems of the Bulgarians there; - cooperation with the Bulgarian employers who offer work and housing to Bulgarians from Ukraine........................................................................................... - co-operation with municipalities - according to the data of the National Association there is readiness for accommodation in Burgas, Malko Tarnovo and Nevesino; - accelerated issuance of certificates of Bulgarian origin; - solving individual cases and problem with ethnic Bulgarians who addressed the Center in cooperation with the competent institutions presented at the Center; - consulting for the relevant regulatory procedures. Currently there is no influx of ethnic Bulgarians who are fleeing Ukraine to Bulgaria. There is a tendency to increase the number of applications for a certificate of Bulgarian origin. Last year, their total number was 1526. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] From the beginning of 2015 until 22 May this year their number is 1242. I'm using the occasion of your question, my dear Professor. Stanilov, to share my expectation that, along with his administrative work, the State Agency will give priority to formulating and proposing specific policies for Bulgarians abroad, including for Bulgarians in Ukraine. Indeed, this is a policy that needs to be developed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u65	Thank you, Madame Deputy Prime Minister. Professor Stanilov, your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u66	Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, the measures you have listed, of course, impress with their scale. The question is to see what comes out of the whole thing and what will be the result. This issue was discussed in the parliamentary Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad. There were all these facts, although not with such details. In this Commission, I have spoken on the following issue. Immediately after the changes, the Greek government, with a special, extraordinary law, took all the so-called Pontian Greeks from the territory of the former Soviet Union to Greece. I spoke with such people in Thessaloniki, and they explained to me that they had received a priority opportunity to work, to receive housing and monetary assistance. Now these people are fully integrated into Greek society. Similarly, the Federal Republic of Germany accepted the so-called voluntary Germans who were German colonists from the time of Ekaterina the Great, but had retained their ethnic self-consciousness. The government, Vice Prime Minister, does it not think that I would address this question to Mr. Borisov, but I do use that I have asked you to take such a policy against the background of the deep demographic crisis in Bulgaria: all Bulgarians who live in the territory of Ukraine, given the exceptional complexity and tensions there, who want to go home within the borders of the Fatherland, to have this opportunity, like the Greeks, the Germans, now also the Poles picked up from Western Ukraine somewhere in 200 to 300 thousand. Souls? Just to get home to the Fatherland and then the pressure on the demographic crisis will disappear. In the next session, because this I do not have the opportunity to ask you a question on this subject, I will monitor how the events are going to take place and you will probably get a question from me about how all these measures that you have pointed out are being implemented. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u67	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. A hole, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u68	Professor Stanilov, I think that the direction you are pointing to is very important, deserves a thorough discussion and there are no principle differences in that our country should take steps in order for Bulgaria to be as big as people with Bulgarian self-consciousness, Bulgarian origins. In addition, you are right that it would actually solve to a large extent the issues of the demographic crisis. Moreover, I am a supporter of the so-called "Synthesis card" with which the European Union has the opportunity, like the green card, for talented people to become European citizens, so I think there is much to be done in this direction. You are right that we are debtors in terms of a comprehensive policy in this direction. I believe that the Agency should not only focus on the certification of Bulgarian origin, as it is now, but to propose mechanisms for attracting our compatriots to Bulgaria and for establishing them and their integration into our society, within the country. Funds for this are: more active policy in the field of culture, education, creating economic incentives. This can be done. The question is not to create expectations that we cannot meet afterwards, because that would be very bad. Expectations that our compatriots from traditional communities will settle in Bulgaria after obtaining citizenship were not really justified. Let us also say this, so we should also work actively with the new Bulgarian migration, which is inextricably related to the country and find the right approach to stimulate legal migration. We need to find the right formula for responding to demographic challenges, as you say, and the Agency for Bulgarians abroad, as part of the state tools, should have a visionary look, not purely administrative, but should generate policies. For example, in the field of education to facilitate the access of students and students of Bulgarian origin to education in Bulgaria. This will be an incentive for them to come and stay, of course, taking into account that they are in line with our social and social security system. Measures in this regard: easier to obtain the right of residence of students of Bulgarian origin, creating opportunities for continuing school education in Bulgaria, started by children of Bulgarian origin as students abroad who come with their parents to Bulgaria. Thank you. I think this is a really important topic, and I am counting on us to continue discussing it. I'm counting on your control as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. The next question is from the MP Dimitar Andreev Delchev on the Law on Prevention of Corruption. Mr. Delchev, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, last week was published for public discussion The Law on the Prevention of Corruption and the debates on it have already begun. Despite the repeated recommendations of the European Commission to improve the measures and the means for combating corruption, the issue remains open and Bulgaria has not so far advanced in this area. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following questions: how and how will this new law improve the anti-corruption system that we have so far in the laws in force? What are the new moments in the law? How will the independence, effectiveness and loyalty of the staff to carry out the checks in the new body be ensured? Will the new body further burden the state budget and how will it be formulated and how will the new National Anti-Corruption Office function? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u71	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u72	In fact, the challenge is to tell about the Law within three minutes, but I believe that this is only the beginning of the discussion. Thank you for this opportunity. Why are we offering this bill, first of all? Indeed, what we have so far as an administrative counter-corruption has failed, and we have to face it honestly. This also applies to the penal unit, but expect results from the newly formed, joint unit between the Prosecutor's Office, SANS and the Ministry of Interior. The findings of a lack of results, yes, are present in a number of reports and are also present in the assessment of Bulgarian citizens. What's the status at the moment? Several administrative bodies with anti-corruption functions: Commission for Conflict of Interests, Directorate of the Court of Auditors, BORKOR, their work is largely formal, there is no connection between them and other state authorities. We all submit several declarations to the Court of Auditors, one before the Commission for Conflict of Interest, property declarations to the appointing authority, according to the Labour Code, the Civil Service Act and so on. I think most of this room has experienced it. What's next? The Court of Auditors shall check whether you have filed a declaration if you are not fined. Acknowledges that something has not been declared or inaccurately declared; notes that it sends to the NRA; From then on, however, it is not clear what follows. Information on non-submitted declarations or inaccuracies declarations shall be made public, i.e. so far it stops the moment with publicity. However, verification of declarations remains formal. There are only sanctions for the non-disclosure declarations for 2014 56 persons with 1000 BGN were fined, a total of 15 thousand debtors submitting declarations. What's new about this bill? A single body, the National Bureau for Prevention of Corruption is its name according to the bill. It doesn't just unite several units. This mechanical gathering wouldn't make sense. It collects functions that are important to be in one place. It is important that the conflict of interest goes along with property checks, because very often conflict of interest is the cause of unjustified wealth. It is also important to do risk analysis. The aim of the law is to create a regulatory and operational system for real verification of property declarations. We simplify the arrangement: a declaration of property and interests is filed and only before the National Bureau. Accurate rules shall be laid down for the Bureau's checks and, depending on the outcome of the inspection, a clear link with the other authorities to follow up. For example, if an unexplained wealth is found, the Commission for the withdrawal of illegal property shall refer to the prosecution. The law, and here I want to be very clear, applies only to persons holding senior public positions. If we spread it out too much, it will actually turn out that this Bureau will focus on small cases and again we will not have concentration on people who really have power and on whom it depends very much. However, we are expanding the circle of persons who are submitting declarations. There are three categories leading: the nature of the job, access to public resources and increased corruption risk. Among the new debtors are municipal councilors, chief architects, customs chiefs, heads of managing bodies and intermediate units, rectors, hospital directors financed by the NHIF, employees of the administration with crucial functions in public procurement. We widen the circle of declared circumstances, settle a integrity check. For the first time in Bulgaria there will be such a check for the Director of the Bureau and the employees. We are creating a new body by not increasing the administration about 100 people...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u73	You will continue in the time of your duplicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u74	I just want to say that the Bureau is a single body, which is also unlike now. His work will be audited every year.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. Here you are, Mr. Delchev, for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u76	Really, a lot of information in a little while. I wanted to specify the new National Bureau will be the authority and all the spotlights will be directed at it. In this regard, can you give a little more clarity to who will be accountable, who will control the new National Bureau, how will employees be selected there and how will their loyalty be tested? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u77	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u78	In the proposals we have made, the President of the new body will be proposed by the Council of Ministers, a complex fact-making body, will be approved by the President. If the President decides, he can reject, he is entitled to veto and, as with the bills, a second proposal. It will be reported monthly and there will be a large annual report to the National Assembly. He will be heard by the Commission before his appointment. It will be heard by the Commission in the National Assembly, i.e. the control will practically be in your hands and you will come up with an opinion on whether you accept what your opinion on this application is. The loyalty test, which does not currently exist in the Bulgarian administrative system, means to do something for the first time, something really new. In most countries where there is success, including neighbouring Romania, special tests have been carried out. There's a lot of other people's experience. This loyalty test makes him an external valuer. It is subject not only to the head of the Bureau, but also to every employee. For employees, it is made every year. That is, whether their profile is such that they can withstand corruption pressure. Separately, an external audit of the work of this Bureau is being carried out each year, how much money has been spent on salaries, software, because it is an essential part of the Bureau's work equipment, and what it has received against the state, what it has received from society as a result of their work. I stress that the audit is external. It is not done by a state institution, but by an absolutely independent external auditor. This is the practice in countries that have a clear success in fighting corruption.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are going to answer five questions from Mr. Nikolai Nenchev, Minister of Defence. The first question is from the MP Volen Nikolov Siderov about the transition of military equipment to the territory of the country. Here you are, Mr. Siderov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, my question was formulated four months ago. It is about foreign military equipment that passes through our homeland and goes to Ukraine. That was the reason I asked a question. The event is on 26 January 2015. Since I'm not a petty man, I don't pick a fight, I'd wave my hand if it was just this passing. But since then... Here, I'm going to illustrate, because I know that you obviously have a habit of denying, and I have pictures of myself. These are photos from the technique with the Ukrainian flag, military equipment that passes through Bulgaria [[shows colorful photos large format A3]] , near Pravets, you can see the sign of Pravets in one of the pictures. A awake citizen filmed this technique with his cell phone and immediately called the right person. Since then, though, I would have waved with my hand if it were just this case, but it is not just this case. Regularly, almost every week, every other week, heavy military equipment comes into our house. Here's a picture of heavy military equipment. [[shows picture]] I'm not a specialist, I'm an amateur, but I see it's very heavy. Experts say it was a serious American technique and it was served by American servicemen. This is part of a large train composition that stopped at Zimnitsa Station. From there this technique was driven towards the polygon in Novo village. This is one of the roads of our homeland, which is also used by fighting technique. [[shows photo]] . This is in the direction of Burgas "Varna." Another photo with heavy military equipment [[shows it]] . And one photo of the last few days. [[shows it]] . This is the central part of Plovdiv.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u81	Your question, Mr. Siderov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u82	Hey, I'll get to the point. We see an SUV. [[shows photo]] they call it "Hummer," with a machine gun on the roof, one of the central streets of Plovdiv. Are we in martial law? I don't know. You'll say, sure. My question, Mr. Chairman, is: what is this fighting technique that passes through? What's with the fighting technique that comes crashing down at my place all the time? How many of these war machines were there, and how many of these war machines are there at all? What is the final destination of this convoy that passed the first pictures I showed you? What is the purpose of all this technique that I showed you with pictures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u83	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u84	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Siderov, you have extensive parliamentary experience and you know that I am obliged to answer the question you asked me. But since you have also asked other questions, out of respect for you, to the National Assembly, I would like to inform you what kind of technique is currently in Bulgaria, so that you do not have to worry so that people can be calm. Currently we have 14 infantry fighting machines in Novo selo, 4 armored carriers and 153 servicemen on the polygon in Novo selo. That's it, Mr. Siderov. Nothing more! Regarding the question: I regret that we have put it off so long in time. It's not my fault. I always do my duty at this time. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States for Defence Cooperation is an international public contract. The same was signed in Sofia on 28 April 2006. It is certified by law of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria and is promulgated in the Official Journal. 55 from 2006. In implementation of this treaty by my Order No OH-931 from 30 December 2014 for the period from 2 to 31 January 2015 I have authorised joint Bulgarian-American preparation. The same took place in the area of the school range Novo village with the participation of forces, funds and military formations by the Ministry of Defence and the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence, the Joint Command of Forces, the Land Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, the formations of the United States Marine Corps and formations of the Land Forces of Romania and the Republic of Serbia. In the above and on the basis of art. 18 of the Law for going through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces I have notified you by letter No 12-00412 of 30 December 2014. Now, regarding your particular question. On 26 January 2015, there was no military convoy in the designated location and direction of movement. After completing the main part with the joint Bulgarian-American preparation on January 25th, one day before that, the US forces left the Novo village polygon with a convoy consisting of 5 pcs. bus carrying servicemen, 17 pcs. tractors with trailers, 2 pcs. trucks and 2 pcs. passenger cars with increased passability.. 26 total units of equipment. Tugs were loaded with maintenance technique and logistics provision of the teaching. There were 14 vehicles with high passability, one crane, one truck on board, 3 containers with military property. The traffic route was a school polygon Novo selo The convoy left the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria at 18:00 on 25 January 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u85	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u86	Yes, I was right to bring pictures to illustrate, because you have proved that you are ready to deny the obvious. You're saying that what I'm showing, and I'm going to show it again, wasn't there. [[Shows photos.]] This fighting technique that we see in this picture, with the Ukrainian flag of the window of the fighting car, and the sign "Sofia" and this is the other sign That wasn't there. Your tendency to deny the obvious, Mr. Minister, is not good. You do things that are dangerous to Bulgaria. You've also uncovered our military scouts, which is a crime, I'd say national betrayal. My advice is to resign while it's time. Your coalition partners are already cooking up dirt for you. I'm hearing soon that something will come up that will force the Prime Minister to replace you. Give your resignation in time, so that you can save the dirt that you are preparing and prepare yourself, because one day, you cannot, you will be called to account for what you are doing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u87	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u88	This technique that you have listed, at least you are either lying or you are not aware of it. Only the videos that we have shot at Zimnitsa Station show at least 10 heavy tanks. So either you don't know the number of your American superiors keeping you in the dark, or you're fooling the audience. It's not good to do this, I say it again, but this isn't just about good and bad. It's about the danger you're putting the country in. You have a dangerous policy and one day you will be responsible for it! [[Private applause by Ataka.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u89	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. A hole? He doesn't have an ass. The next questions Mr. Nanchev will answer after the break. I'll give you 30 minutes. We'll continue at 11:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u90	Dear MPs, we are continuing the meeting with responses of the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev. A question to him will be asked by the people representative Petar Slavov about the refusal of the leadership of the Service "Military information" to transmit the archive of the Intelligence Department of the Bulgarian People's Army from the time of communism and the indications that a copy of a part or of the entire archive of a digital medium has expired outside the Office.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. From the content of the question that you have read, it becomes clear that the question has been asked about two months ago and, in practice, following the Minister's actions of this week, the signing of the order and the agreement for the transmission of this archive may no longer be so up-to-date. I'm gonna ask my question a little rephrased. Before that, I will congratulate Mr. Minister for fulfilling this commitment, fulfilling the requirement of the law, which for eight years a number of his predecessors have not fulfilled for one reason or another where, because of the obstructions of previous military information manuals, where because they simply did not dare. The law in this case is clear and it requires the archive from 1944 to 1991 of the intelligence of the then communist state to be handed over to the Commission on the files together with all other assets. I will ask the question in the following way, because what remains current and I think is relevant at the moment is how, in practice, did the Committee on Files have a number of media publications, however, come up with a digital copy of this archive? Is there any information about how this happened and how the previous leadership of the Military Information Service admitted it in all the assurances that it kept the archive very carefully and practically nowhere and in no way leaked? In practice, it has been established that a digital copy has been made and has also been found in the Commission. Getting there is not a problem, but the question arises whether it has come to other places? That's what I'm gonna ask him to do anyway. He also took the opportunity in response to say a little more about the guarantees given to the modern military intelligence service, to the modern military intelligence officers with the order and agreement he signed with the Commission on the files that they would not really be affected, would not be revealed modern and military intelligence that the work of the service would not be put in any danger to serve the interests of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u92	Here you are, Minister, for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Slavov, in response to your question about the refusal of the management of the Service.. Military information.. to hand over the archive of the Intelligence Department of the Bulgarian People's Army from the time of communism and the indications that a copy of part or of the entire archive is provided on a digital medium, I inform you of the following. I have ordered the preparation of a reference by the Office of Military Information. The received reference shows the following: with the admission-transition Protocol No 4726 of December 2013 to the Commission on the files were transmitted 1519 microfiche from the special archive of the Office of Military Information and of which 147 negatives and 1372 positives. The following types of cases have been filmed on the above microfiches: personal cases Due to an expired storage period, as well as a reduced operational historical value, cases were taken on digital media and their paper media were destroyed in the period 1982 - 1991. Microfiches are created for the purpose of making necessary inquiries. According to information from the Office, copies of these digital media have not been made, have not been made to others, and have not been transmitted to other persons or offices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u94	Thank you. It is interesting that even according to communist ideology communism had not occurred, but according to today's However, let us not enter into an ideological dispute, it is more important to clarify the issue of archive units. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for this answer. We have found that in fact part of the archive has already been handed over to the Commission and it is very comforting to me to everyone who claimed that the Commission would abuse and almost disclose active military intelligence. Obviously, the Commission strictly adheres to the law and, despite having had this archive since 2013 until now, it has practically complied with the law, and has waited to receive the paper media, and has not announced anything so far. I think this is a guarantee that the law will be respected and there will be no violations. Once again, I would like to ask you, as a reply to you, to say a little more about the guarantees that are given for the modern Military Information Service that there will be no illumination of active military scouts, or they will not be put in danger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u96	Here you are, Minister, for an answer. I suppose you will also touch on the question if some people have cooperated in the previous ministry and the present..... how will this matter be resolved?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u97	Dear Mr. Slavov, the greatest guarantee that all foreign citizens will be preserved gives the law. On the other hand, you are absolutely right: since 2013, the Bureau of Records has had these files, i.e. if they intended to, they would have done so by now. I also received guarantees from the President of the Commission. I have personally made sure that by visiting the Bank of Bulgaria warehouse, excellent opportunities, excellent storage conditions according to European standards. I have no concern about this, and I am convinced that the Commission will fulfil its obligations as ordered by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u98	Thank you. Before we move on to the next question, Mr. Stoinev has the floor of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! The Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria opposes the superficial, devoid of in-depth analysis and optimistic conclusions for the implementation of the state budget in the first quarter of 2015. Behind the officially announced data of the Ministry of Finance there are worrying trends for the business environment, consumption, poverty levels. The debate on them must continue because of their direct attitude towards the prospects for the economy and social stability. A game of numbers!! These are the government's contributions in the reports on the implementation of the state budget in the first quarter of 2015. However, it forgets that it is not in a film that the victims of the accounting tricks are real. What's really behind the numbers game? The shadow of fear of stagnation and bankruptcy in business. Poverty hanging over the present and future of millions of Bulgarians. Lack of sustainable development and dependence of the economy. Here's the thing. The revenue collected from corporate taxes in 2015 was by 20 million. lv. less than those in 2014. This means that companies work in worse conditions than the previous year. According to the National Statistical Institute (NSI), in the first quarter of 2015, companies invested 550 million. lv. less for renewal of its production compared to 2014. In January-March 2015, the cost of acquisition of fixed tangible assets is approximately 3 billion. 50 million. BGN and in the first quarter of 2014 were 3.6 billion. lv. In 2014 these key growth costs increased, and in the last quarter, notice, there were 5 billion of them in 2014. 350 million. lv.. Again according to NSI, the expectations of the business are 30% lower this year than the previous one. The same source shows that this year's investment in the private sector will shrink, notice, by almost 40%. BNB adds that for January-March 2015 foreign direct investments will be lower by 58 million. lv. compared to January-March 2014 The data is indicative. Stale, shutting down businesses, losing jobs, lack of income, increasing poverty. This is the projection of your numbers on real life. You must really be in a parallel reality so you don't see how the Bulgarians live. The figures again do not benefit from the confidence that your management is going in a good direction. The tax revenue collected by citizens and individuals during the first three months of 2015 is 1 million. lv. less than the same period of 2014 According to the government, over one million. people experience monthly income around the minimum, which is 340 BGN. I just want to remind you that for a year, 500,000. citizens have increased workers who work precisely on such a miserable income. This is every second one of the workers and every third one who declared income. These are the poor workers - a worrying sign of the state of our economy. People think with fear about their future. How else would you explain shrinking consumption and increasing savings? National statistics show that the Bulgarians started this year with pessimism "indoor consumption has decreased by 32 million. lv. compared to the first three months of 2014. The heavy shadow of Borisov's first government weighs heavily over this cabinet. You manage the budget as you do the roads in a piece and not quite qualitatively. However, budget tricks are much more dangerous than ribbon tricks. Of 1 billion. 200 million. lv. Over-execution of revenues, about half a billion leva come from non-taxable revenues and aids collected, state and municipal fees and from funds from the European Union funds under projects launched in 2013 "2014." The re-execution of VAT revenue by 350 million lv. is an accounting number. It is not due to reforms, new policies, significant events in the economy. The government reports that 350 million. lv. more are due to the higher amount of VAT declared by companies to be paid for January 2015, due for December 2014 and its increased return at the end of 2014. Thus, the VAT to be paid back in 2015, ladies and gentlemen, is less. The net result is that in the new 2015 budget there is more VAT resources in order to take into account re-execution, at the expense of 2014. You scared us, gentlemen in charge, with the deficit. The government reports a budget deficit, notice, for 2014, at the rate of 3,7% of gross domestic product. This, ladies and gentlemen, means that an excessive deficit procedure must be initiated. But where is this excessive deficit procedure? There's no such thing! Why not? Eurostat disproves you and points to a smaller budget deficit of 2.8% of gross domestic product for 2014. I repeat, the government scares us with a deficit of 3.7%, the truth turns out to be radically different from the gross domestic product. Who should we trust with the government of Borisov or Eurostat?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u100	On Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u101	Remember the protests, remember the president's veto for the 1 billion leva debt issued, mainly because of the cabinet's spending. lv. in February 2013? Then your President Plevneliev said: "Let's not commit future generations. Now who do you have to do it for? In the first quarter of 2015 the government debt increased avalanche and reached 24 billion leva. That is, 29% of gross domestic product. [[Noise, lines and voices from the right.]] In the data we see another worrying trend. The new 6 billion issue. lv. on international markets increases the share of foreign debt. It is significantly ahead of the internal, which puts our country on external dependencies. So, dear rulers, stop playing with numbers! The parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria brings out the real numbers not to accumulate dividends. And in order to be objective to the end, we need to take into account that the increase in excise revenue is a positive trend that you have to keep until the end of the year. But the truth has to be told because someone has to wake up. Someone needs to stop thinking about political appropriateness, the distribution of party influence in power and the upcoming elections. Someone has to wake up and start thinking stately. And that's you, the government. BSP and now as opposition, but also in government, has always proved that it stands in the positions of statehood. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u102	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Since there were voices from the House, is there anyone who would like to make a statement on this topic or on another on behalf of a parliamentary group? I won't. We continue to answer the questions. The next one is from the National Representative Manol Genov on the actions taken by the Ministry of Defence for cleaning and securing the area of the site of Iganovo. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question is about the actions taken by the Ministry of Defence for cleaning and securing the area of the site of Iganovo at the Vazovski machine-building plants. Dear Minister, on 21 March 2015 in the land of the village of Iganovo, Plovdiv District, factory site of Immediately after the incident, under the leadership of the District Prosecution Office, Karlovo, with the assistance of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, Plovdiv, measures have been taken to stop all persons from accessing the site and the adjoining area. The Regional Prosecutor's Office's report as early as 23 March 2015 requested the Land Forces Commander at the Ministry of Defence to provide a specialized tactical group of bomb squads for carrying out surface cleaning at the site in the village of Iganovo, a production and warehouse base, and a three-km perimeter. On 25 and 26 March additional requests were sent to this effect according to dynamic communication with representatives of the Land Forces to the Ministry of Defence. However, a surface cleaning operation from non-explosive ammunition and explosive residue within a one-mile radius on the outside of the warehouse started only on 30 March, i.e. 10 days after the incident, despite repeated requests from the District Attorney's Office. The explanations recorded in the report indicate the reluctance of the Ministry to initiate this activity independently with a view to the existence of data on the wishes to be cleaned by a private company. The order amounts to millions of levs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u104	Please state the question!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u105	Dear Minister! My question to you is this: what required the waiting for nearly ten days to begin the clearing of land troops? Is that how it took you so long...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u106	No, there's no need to comment. You asked the question. Time's up by half a minute, Mr. Genov. You'll continue later. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u107	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Genov! In response to your question about the actions taken by the Ministry of Defence for cleaning and securing of the area of the site of Iganovo. Sopot, I'm informing you of the following. Since the outbreak occurred on 21 March 2015, the following actions have been taken in a ammunition storage facility at the Ministry of Defence and Defence in the vicinity of Iganovo. First, in connection with a request received from 22 March 2015 by the Deputy Minister of Interior, the Chief of Defence also gave instructions by order of the Land Forces Commander on 23 March 2015 and 24 March 2015, a group of seven servicemen secured the safety of teams carrying out investigative actions by clearing a 2.7 km route. Second, on the occasion of a new letter of 26 March 2015 from the Deputy Minister of Interior was prepared and signed by me Order No OH 215 of 27 March 2015 on the conduct of an operation to assist the population in the area of the incident. In accordance with that order, an organisation has been established with effect from 31 March 2015 to conduct an operation on surface cleaning of unexploded ammunition and explosive residues in an adjacent territory within a radius of one kilometer. Fourth, in connection with additional requests from the district prosecutor of Karlovo and the management of VMZ JSC, Sofia. Sopot, I issued an order No. OH 241 of 6 April 2015 to assist in cleaning the inner perimeter of the site in Iganovo. Fifth, I would like to point out that ground troops immediately provided drones for reconnaissance. The safety of the work of the investigative bodies was ensured on 23 and 24 March as well as a specialised tactical group for the conduct of the operation. Sixth, until the second explosion on 14 April 2015 in the region of VMZ JSC. Sopot, 46% of the affected areas were cleared, then all activities had to start over. As of April 23, 2015, the Land Forces cleared: 21,65 km of roads and 313 acres in the internal area of VMZ Sopot, 8.2 km of roads and 83 acres of area within a radius of one kilometer of the epicenter of the first explosion on the outside of the warehouse. A total of 1062 unexploded ammunition were transported and created, 812 kg scrap metal residue. Representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the commander of Land Forces and servicemen on the ground have in no way expressed opinions on behalf of the Defence Minister for the appointment of private companies to carry out cleansing activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u108	Thank you for your exact response in time. Here you are, Mr. Genov, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u109	Dear Minister, I see a quality of pathological lying. I noticed that in my colleague's previous response when he asked about heavy machinery. The prosecution in its report notes that there is evidence of such a thing that you insisted that this be entrusted to a private company. Yes, you have given an order, but God forbid there will be war, for I am watching the land troops move, obeying your command. First they cleaned the outer perimeter, then the inner perimeter of the blast. I hope, once again, that we do not have to take part in real action in these parts and that you command them what to do and how to do it. I did not get a clear answer: however, in the data and in the report sent by the District Prosecutor's Office, Karlovo, to the District Prosecutor's Office, it was found that within the internal perimeter for assistance in the investigative actions the delay was ten days. Either the D.A. is lying, or you are, Mr. Secretary. That is my conclusion of what I have heard and read, of course, in this report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u110	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Here you are, Minister, to clarify this contradiction.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u111	There is no contradiction, dear Mr. Genov. I stand by every word I've presented to you! And I beg you very much, let us treat these people who have done a great deal of work, who still work there, risked their lives, Mr. Genov, I would like to give what we deserve to these boys because they worked incredibly hard conditions. In addition, I would like to inform you that, as early as 21 hours after the incident, I myself was at the scene two hours after the accident. I have fully cooperated with both the investigating authorities and the management of the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u112	We move on to the next question by the MP Vladimir Toshev regarding the failure to complete a file with the Ministry of Defence with a one-year limitation. Here you go, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Ministers! Mr. Minister, my question to you is about the movement of Prepiska 13-00-1174 of 7 April 2014. This file concerns a particular case, a particular human fate of a widow who is... By the way, my question is prompted by a case on my day of acceptance. This woman until 2008 worked in the county of war in Pernik and lived in an apartment rented by the military office, which she used for many years before that. After she left Military District, the apartment was sealed off. In her words, the property was looted without having been able to carry it out, but these are, let's say, household details. Since 2011, the woman has been working at the Military Medical Academy, i.e. again in the Department of the Ministry. In this file I quoted, she wants to rehire the apartment that is currently empty. At the Military Medical Academy she was told that they did not have the opportunity to help her in this way, because they do not have homes in Pernik region, but to file in Sofia. Only the woman lives in Pernik and wants to work there. I think we could make this case work together because the apartment is empty. However small the amount, by obtaining the Ministry, however, if there are many such cases, they can support the Ministry financially. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u114	Here you are, Minister, for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u115	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Toshev, I have come to know your question very carefully. In connection with it, the timeline of movement and fate at the moment, as well as the future development of the case. It is under a document entered with No 13-00-11-74 from 7 April 2014. In the Ministry of Defence there was indeed a complaint lodged by Mrs. Krasteva under the above number concerning the possibility of rehiring property from the housing fund of the Ministry of Defence in the town of Pernik. Silvia Krasteva is a former landlord of the property whose rental relationships were terminated in 2009 because at that time she no longer met the conditions for renting this space. Ms. Krasteva has participated in a procedure for selling 60 homes and apartments. It was ranked first for its purchase and was given an order in its name to the Minister of Defence with No ZZ-252-7 of 2011 for sale of the property in question. In the performance of t. 5 of that order and Art. 12, para. 1 of the Ordinance on sale of homes, workshops, garages from the Housing Fund of the Ministry of Defence, which are located in settlements where there is no structure of the Ministry of Defence, structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence and the Bulgarian Army, Ms. Krasteva should have submitted the sums due for purchase and sale within one month from the date of delivery of the order. Due to their non-compliance within the deadline, the order for the sale of the property from the housing fund of the Ministry of Defence of Ms. Krasteva has been revoked and subsequently this circumstance has led the Commission to consider that it has no right to do so. However, there is the following possibility at this time: the terms and conditions for renting in a housing fund of the Ministry of Defence are laid down in Ordinance No H-22 of 2010. 7, para. 1, t. 1 of the Ordinance servicemen and civil servants are filing as needy homes, workshops or garages when they and their family members need a place of residence, a studio or a garage. In this particular case, Mrs. Krasteva as a civilian employee of the Ministry of Interior, Sofia, can be mapped as a need for accommodation in Sofia and therefore be rented in housing or living quarters in this locality. The military and civilian residents of the Ministry of Defence cannot be provided with a residence where they lived or preferred to live, subject to free negotiation, as compensation amounts are paid under the terms and conditions laid down in the Ordinance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u116	Thank you. We move on to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov concerning companies with state participation, whose principal is the Ministry of Defence, who had funds in Corporate Commercial Bank.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My question concerns the state-owned companies, in this case those of which the principal is the Ministry of Defence and who had funds in the Corporate Commercial Bank and consequently lost them after the bankruptcy. Dear Minister, in response to a parliamentary question to the Minister of Finance, in relation to his powers under art. 12a, para. 6 of the Bankruptcy Act, I was informed that the following companies with state participation, the principal of which is the Ministry of Defence, had a significant number of funds in KTB at the time of its placing under special supervision: As regards the amount of funds and the authority on whose decision these amounts have been deposited in the CCB, the Minister of Finance indicated that this information should be required by the portfolio ministry and that it cannot provide it. Part of the companies are in a difficult financial situation and there is a risk that they are actually losing those funds in CCB, which are above the legally guaranteed minimum. For this reason there is also the hypothesis of art. 17 of the Public Information Access Act for a dominant public interest and I believe that state-owned companies are obliged to disclose this information. In view of the above, Dear Minister, I ask you to answer the following question: which companies with State participation.... including the companies listed above, of which the Ministry of Defence is the principal, had funds in CCB, at what amount, at which rate and at which authority of the company? Please also specify whether the Order of the Council of Ministers No 127 of 2013 has been implemented with regard to the maximum amount of funds that can be concentrated in a bank, the so-called........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u118	Thank you. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u119	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Slavov, in response to the question asked by you: which companies with state participation, of which the Minister of Defence is a principal, had funds in KTB.Sc, at what amount, at what rate and at which rate of interest and at which decision of which body of the company, by specifying whether Order No As of 20 June 2014, when CCB was placed under special supervision, cash holdings of accounts in the Bank had As of this date there is money in CCB on payment accounts 40 thousand. BGN 314. And 3 million. Seven hundred and $805 on a deposit account, $3 million. 128,000. BGN 474. with annual interest, as follows: in the accounts to be paid - 0,20%, on the deposit account - 6.5%. A corporate commercial bank has been selected as one of the serving banks as a result of a competition procedure carried out on 14 October 2013 by the Commission appointed by Order No 55 of 25 March 2013 of the Executive Director. As of 20 July 2014, the net cash exposure of the company in Corporate Commercial Bank exceeded 25 percent of the total cash stocks, since on 19 June 2014 a significant amount of a commercial contract was received by the company's bank account. On 20 June 2014, the CCB provided payment orders for withdrawal of funds from the accounts but were not accepted for processing. The bank's cash stocks are in the bank's accounts at 982 thousand. BGN 594, and 208 euros on a deposit account, $7899. The annual interest rates are: on an account in BGN CCB has been selected as one of the servicing banks through a competition procedure organised by Order of the manager of the company No 342 of 15 July 2013 and translated into execution of art. 13b and the Annex to it by the Rules of Procedure for the exercise of the rights of the company at this time. In addition, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty, which distorts or threatens to distort competition by favouring certain undertakings or the production Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u120	Thank you. You have the floor, Mr. Slavov, for a reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Minister, dear ministers! What I have heard is disturbing to me, especially with regard to "Terem" EAD, as the amounts there are quite large and I see in practice that they are approaching nearly 10 million. BGN, which will obviously be lost in most of it. However, the worrying thing about both companies is that the management at the time in the first place, especially with regard to the "Terem" EAD, has failed to comply with the de-concentration decree, held more than 25% of the company's funds in this bank and therefore a large part of them will be lost. Perhaps if this requirement had been met, the amount to be lost would have been much smaller. The other disturbing thing, Minister, is that obviously the interest at which these amounts were held, including large amounts, were held on payment accounts at a minor interest rate, which was obviously also the least unreasonable, not to say any other reason in relation to the management of the company at that time to manage and manage the company's funds in this way. Of course, all of this has been heard and in the context of the situation, as we know a number of companies in the Military and Industrial Complex are experiencing difficulties of a very different nature, including at times to pay salaries to their employees. I suppose it will also be important for them to understand that in practice a large part of the funds that these companies had and which could have been used for both these purposes and wages and in general for the company's activities will now be lost because some of the company's management back then did not comply with the Law and these funds were lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u122	Here you go. Here you go. Here you go. You don't. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. We move on to answers from Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov. A question was asked by the MPs Georgi Andonov and Krasen Krastev concerning an amendment to the Code on Income Taxation of the Hellenic Republic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u123	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! The issue is about an amendment to the Income Tax Code in the Hellenic Republic. It is still up-to-date and is very concerned by the decision of the Hellenic Republic to levy a preventive tax of 26% at source transactions between Bulgarian and Greek companies on the assumption that they may be fictitious and represent a tax evasion or tax fraud. The purpose of the Greek state is to fight the exports of profits to Bulgaria, because with us the tax regime is much more favourable. Greece will prevent 26% of the transactions of all Bulgarian counterparties within three months and will only unblock them when they prove that they are actually carried out and are at current market prices. The assumption of such a practice on the one hand, a member of the European Union, would have an extremely strong negative effect. It is estimated that trade between Bulgaria and Greece will decrease by more than 20%, as well as the fear that this will block Bulgarian exports to Greece. Thus, the tax provisions adopted by Greece are incompatible with European Union law and violate fundamental principles laid down in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union Dear Minister, it would be appropriate to take appropriate actions and measures to protect the interests of the Bulgarian business. In this regard, my question is: what is the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and what action will the country take to protect our interests? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u124	Thank you, Mr. Krastev. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u125	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Andonov, Mr. Krastev, thank you for your question, which is undoubtedly important and relevant. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs carefully monitors from the very beginning the introduction, debate and vote of the relevant law The opinion of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria is that the provisions of the newly adopted law violate fundamental principles laid down in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, namely: the principle of free movement of capital, goods and the provision of services; the principle of freedom of establishment; the principle of proportionality; the principle of legal certainty; the principle of non-discrimination. The opinions of the Ministry of Economy, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria are also in the spirit of the position expressed by the Bulgarian Minister of Finance. The Embassy of the Republic of Bulgaria in Athens maintains constant contact on the topic with Greek business organizations, the Ministry of Finance of Greece and the Embassy of the Republic of Cyprus in Athens. The Bulgarian side drew attention to our Greek partners in a timely manner for the problem created and its impact on bilateral trade and economic relations. The Bulgarian Ambassador to Greece raised the issue during talks with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Greece Mr. Nikos Kodzias, with the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism Mr. George Statakis and the Alternative Second Minister of Finance Mrs. Nadia Valavani. With the assistance of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, business representatives also met with the Greek side to discuss the issue. In the meantime, on 23 April 2015 a draft Decision of the Ministry of Finance of the Hellenic Republic was published for public consultation, including instructions for implementing the adopted art. 21 of the law in question. Despite the insistences of the business circles, the signals at diplomatic level and the opinion of the expert Legal Committee to the Greek Parliament in respect of art. 21, para. 1 that, in so far as the measure concerns countries of the European Union, Bulgaria, the Republic of Cyprus, Ireland, it constitutes an unjustified limitation of the rights of free establishment, as well as of the free movement of goods and services, the draft Decision does not exclude transactions with companies from the countries of the European Union from the scope of art. 21 and the draft Decision specifies the criteria to be met by a transaction in order not to be subject to taxation and the way in which it can be demonstrated that the transaction is real. The decision is intended to be applied to transactions, invoices to be issued after 1 September 2015. It is currently expected that the comments from the public consultation of the decision, which ended on 7 May, will be examined and published the final text of the Decision of the Ministry of Finance to implement art. 21 of the Law. At the same time, as you know, on 8 April 2015, the Council of Ministers approved a decision to lodge a complaint by the Republic of Bulgaria on the basis of art. 259 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union as regards the compatibility of the provisions of art. 23, 65 and 66 of the Income Tax Code of the Hellenic Republic, as amended and supplemented by Law No 4321/2015, as well as the issued on the basis of art. 65, para. 6i7 of the Code, a decision of the Minister of Finance of Greece, setting out the list of States with preferential tax regime, with the law of the European Union. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This decision empowers the Minister of Finance to notify the European Commission of the legal basis of the complaint lodged to the European Commission. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'll continue my answer a little later.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u126	Here's a line for you, Mr. Krastev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u127	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Minister Mitov! I am pleased with the answer you have given so far, but I will pay attention to defending our interests, I will draw attention to a fact that is creeping out that a large part of Bulgarian companies can solve their problem very easily by making their registrations in neighbouring countries of the Republic of Bulgaria - members of the European Union - even the Republic of Romania and so on. I'll rely on heavy action on our part. This is a policy where we must do everything we can to keep our interests at bay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u128	Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the duplicate in which to supplement the information about the actions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u129	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Krastev! In continuing the answer, I should also inform you of the following: on the basis of the decision adopted, by letter of 14 May the Bulgarian authorities notified the European Commission, in accordance with art. 259 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union for alleged infringement of Articles 34, 49, 56 and 63 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union by Greek legislation imposing restrictions on tax deduction of expenditure. The document is registered on 18 May 2015, which triggers the official three-month period under art. 259 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, ending with a reasoned opinion from the European Commission, after each of the countries concerned has been given the opportunity to set out, respectively, the considerations concerning their own positions and those against the opposing party in writing and oral. Greece should submit its opinion by 8 June 2015, after which the services of the European Commission will provide Greece's opinion to the competent Bulgarian authorities. The next step of the procedure will be the oral hearing of the views of the two parties, which should take place on 22 June 2015 in Brussels. Finally, I assure you that Bulgaria has the will to further strengthen its cooperation with the Hellenic Republic in the context of the existing strategic partnership and the interconnection of the two economies to address the particular problem. I am convinced that the situation created is an opportunity to upgrade our bilateral relations and search for pragmatic solutions taking into account the Bulgarian national interest. I am making another clarification in Antalya at a meeting of NATO foreign ministers, I had a bilateral meeting with the Greek foreign minister, where we discussed the issue and I expect his visit to Sofia, where we will continue the conversation. Of course, we will apply all the tools at our disposal to protect the interest of the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian business, and if necessary, we will act with the most heavy artillery from European instruments at our disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u130	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. People's representative Miglena Alexandrova has requested a delay in the answer to her question about a meeting of foreign ministers in Budapest to discuss the development of the project "Turkish Stream." We are moving on to a question from the MP Christian Vigenin regarding Bulgaria's candidacy as Secretary General of the United Nations. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Before I get to the point, I would like to say that our guests today are young people from Blagoevgrad region. [[Applause.]] I hope that today's discussion is interesting to them, even more the question of the person to be mentioned is also from this area and they are rightly proud of it. Dear Minister, at its meeting on 18 June 2014, the Council of Ministers decided to raise Ms. Irina Bokova's candidacy, currently Director General of UNESCO, as Secretary General of the United Nations. In the same decision, the government commissioned the Minister of Foreign Affairs to coordinate the campaign to provide support for the Bulgarian candidacy among the UN member states, and for 2015 this National Assembly in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also allocated funds for this. In addition, this year is 70 years since the establishment of the United Nations "24 October 1945," and 60 years from Bulgaria's accession to the organization on 14 December 1955. These anniversaries are a good reason for the deployment of a larger campaign for the participation and contribution of Bulgaria in the development of the UN to give further arguments in support of our country's desire to broadcast the next Secretary-General of the Organization. I would like to ask you this: 1. What measures have been taken so far to plan and implement the campaign to provide support for Irina Bokova as UN Secretary-General? 2. In what way does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs intend to mark the anniversaries of the establishment of the UN and of Bulgaria's accession to the organization? Thank you. President Yanaki Stoilov: Come in for an answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Vigenin, since the questions you are asking are very important, I will allow myself to divide the answer into two parts again. On 18 June 2014, as you have already mentioned, the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted a decision to raise the candidacy of the current Director General of UNESCO Mrs. Irina Bokova as Secretary General of the United Nations. As an argument in the direction of this decision, is the opportunity for Mrs. Bokova to receive the necessary support among the UN Member States. The campaign to provide support for the Bulgarian candidacy for UN Secretary-General provides for three main stages of action, namely: First, the information-consultative stage of the campaign until September 2015. Second, the active stage of the campaign is September 2015 - April 2016. Third, the final stage of May 2016 to October/December 2016 The campaign is currently in its information-consultation phase. Its framework discusses actions for preparation and structuring of the campaign, as well as providing awareness and support until the beginning of the 70th regular session of the UN in September 2015. The main objective is to create an effective coordination mechanism in the Central Management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the overseas representations of the Republic of Bulgaria to organise the implementation of activities of all directions, the gathering of the necessary initial information and the establishment of an appropriate basis for launching a campaign for candidacy. The Operational Working Group for the Coordination of the candidacy was established, which held four meetings. As a result of these consultations, projects for district directions were drawn up to all overseas representations, as well as instructions to permanent representations. A detailed action plan is also being prepared for the application, whose validation is imminent. Our overseas representations have included actions and starting positions for lobbying and information about the application for the year. The Directorates of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the overseas representations of the Republic of Bulgaria will appoint permanent managers for the campaign for the candidacy. The Bulgarian overseas representations shall monitor and inform about the positions, opinions and comments expressed by officials and publications in the mass media in the accreditation countries on the issue of the election of a new Secretary-General of the United Nations. The Permanent Representation in New York, in agreement with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, was the initiator and actively participated in the preparation and dispatch at the end of November 2014 of a letter to all Permanent Representations of the UN Member States and of the Observer Countries, as well as to the UN Chairman on behalf of the Group of Eastern European States regarding the appropriateness of the next Secretary-General of the United Nations to be broadcast by the Eastern European Group. Initial drillings were undertaken on the Bulgarian candidacy with the ambassadors in Sofia and the permanent representatives of UNESCO in Paris of the permanent members of the UN Security Council. Essential tasks will also be assigned to accredited Bulgarian missions for countries that are expected to be inconsistent members of the UN Security Council with mandates covering the 2016 period. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Initial contacts were made and continue to take place in other member states of the candidacy, including foreign representatives, including Spain, Australia, Andorra, Argentina, Vietnam, the Republic of Korea, Morocco, Malaysia and others with a view to informing about the Bulgarian candidacy and seeking their future support. I'll continue my answer in a moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u133	Here you go, Mr. Vigenin, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I am using the right to reply to give you the opportunity to continue the answer to the question. Thank you for your information. It is very important on issues that affect Bulgaria's image and the presentation of Bulgaria to the world that we should be united. Bulgaria has proven that it can conduct such campaigns successfully and remind that Irina Bokova herself has been promoted for her second term as Director General of UNESCO by the government of Boyko Borisov. The choice happened with the Oresharski government, and now we have every chance of the opposite. After all, this is a choice for Bulgaria as well. I also want to tell you that on many issues we have differences. We will argue, we will probably criticize each other for one area or another in the policy that is being conducted, but when it comes to important issues for Bulgaria, you will be able to rely on our support. I would mention in addition this application for Bulgaria's just-beginning presidency in the process of co-operation in Southeast Europe. In the autumn, the Presidency of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers will begin. There are other important topics on which I think we can look for united messages. One of them, for example, is the active campaign for Bulgaria's Schengen membership. I believe that we have learned from the experience of previous years when disunity has given negative results for the country. Therefore, I believe that if this spirit of constructiveness continues, we will be able to congratulate ourselves in 2016 with a really great success for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u135	Please, Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity for additional information in the backrest within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u136	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Vigenin, I cannot disagree with what you just said, and I will continue my answer, as well as the answer to the second question. The campaign is about to enter its active stage, which will continue until the nomination itself in the Security Council in the second half of 2016 and will be intensified in line with the campaign's progress. The main objective is to provide support for the application with a focus on the member states of the UN Security Council and the erratic members of the UN Security Council. The aim is to ensure the necessary quorum in the Security Council and maximum support by the Member States of the United Nations. During the final stage of the campaign the aim will be to obtain support for the Bulgarian candidate from the maximum number of UN member states. About your second question. On 24 October 2015, the UN was established 70 years. The anniversary will be marked appropriately by all Member States with different initiatives during the year. During the 70th regular session of the General Assembly in September 2015 there will be a meeting at the highest level with the participation of Heads of State or Government of the member states of the World Organisation. On 14 December 2015 Bulgaria was adopted as a member of the UN. In relation to the two anniversaries, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has developed a plan for marking them, which includes the following elements. Organization of a solemn concert on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of Bulgaria's accession to the UN on 14 December 2015. An organizational committee will be established under the chairmanship of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, organizing a cocktail at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with a wide presence of foreign ambassadors to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the UN on 24 October 2015. Organization of participation of a representative of the Bulgarian Government delegation at the highest level in the 70th session of the UN in September. Organization of a public lecture of the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the Aula of Sofia University. On 26 June 2015, Kliment Ohridski on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the adoption of the UN Charter. The event will be organized with the assistance of the United Nations Society in the presence of students and foreign ambassadors. Reflecting the two anniversaries in electronic and printed media, including with publication of a greeting address in the jubilee issue of the magazine. "International Relations." [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Participation in initiatives organised in New York to mark 60 years of UN membership of the 16 countries adopted on 14 December 1955. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u137	Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. This is the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Todor Tanev, who is waiting for the questions. The first of these is the National Representative Dora Yankova on the results of the checks carried out by the Regional Inspectorate of Education, Smolyan, and the Inspectorate at the Ministry of Education and Science in the Secondary School of Education......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u138	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Tanov, Minister of Education and Science! The Smolyan public media was informed of rough deformities in the Mid-Promunicipality School...................................................................................... Through the media was received the civil discontent, which is written about rough deformities in the school: that it is now a private feudal possession, that students beat teachers and the maxim is: If you are not with us, you are against us. If you talk too much, not only you, but I'll fire your mate. More worrying is what sounded like in the media publication that I deposited to you about the director's command-administrative approach. In the temple of knowledge, the main criterion for the assessment of teachers is obedience, personal devotion. It is extremely serious for the management team to be related. Assistant Director with husband driver, released with six wages, after four months. He is now and is rewarded with a political function, Secretary of GERB. Grandpa on a private bus when there's a bus at the school. The chief accountant with his husband is a cashier. That sounds like information. Along with this, anxiety is about a broken collective, a broken psychoclimate and parallel to this feeling of lack of control and statehood. Several checks were subsequently carried out. Please make them public, as well as the measures you've taken.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u139	Thank you. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u140	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Colleagues of students! Mrs. Yankova, in relation to your question, I have the following information. Between May and December 2014, last year, at the school............................ the village of Banite, five inspections were carried out by the Regional Inspectorate in Smolyan and one inspection by the Ministry of Education and Science. This is how control over the overall organization of the educational and educational process in the school and the administrative and management activities of the Director. By orders of September and December 2014, the Head of the Regional Inspectorate in Smolyan are given mandatory regulations to the Director. In relation to established and proven disciplinary violations, disciplinary punishment is imposed within the meaning of art. 188, para. 1 of the Labour Code................................................................................................................................. to Mr........................................................................................................................... The problem continues. In January 2015, two further checks were carried out by RIO experts Smolyan, at the same school. There have been violations of financial discipline, as well as a lack of significant commodity-material values, causing damages to the school. At the same time, Mr. Tokushev's school at the end of 2014 had overdue outstanding debts over 15 thousand. lv. Mr. Pencho Tokushev was imposed a new, higher disciplinary penalty within the meaning of art. 188, para. 2 of the Labour Code The materials of the inspection in 2015 were provided to the District Prosecutor's Office in Smolyan, as well as to the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. Currently, there is a decision of the judicial authorities which refuse further action by the District Inspectorate to understand the Ministry about the next degree of punishment. The district inspectorate of education in Smolyan with our consent and assistance appealed at the moment this decision of the judicial authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u141	Mrs. Yankova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u142	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, the investigation addressed to the prosecution and the Ministry of Interior could not lead to a crime, but could lead to an administrative violation. I hope that through information from the Inspectorate you will take an attitude. What's more disturbing is another one I informed you about. Inside the situational headquarters, a director, assistant director, husband of the assistant director of work, released with six salaries, removed, then returned and empowered politically. I understand you're in a delicate situation. You are partners with the GERB party and there is no way you can intervene inside to arrange things.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u143	What does this have to do with GERB?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u144	In parallel with this, I hope this tolerance that colleagues here who are leading specialists will also debate so that they do not get excited about it. Along with this, the clothing company and the company, which additionally drives students, is from the circle of the assistant director. You have to see this too! And the chief accountant is with the host husband. There's a distortion inside the school management. That's why I'm addressing you. You're a fair man. I hope that the new management style of Borisov's cabinet 2 will give justice and stability. However, the following concerns me more. It's a temple of knowledge. There must be moral faces, there must be good psycho-climate, there must be power and energy from both the Inspectorate and the Ministry to eradicate these distortions. This can happen without the prosecution and without the police, if they wish to lead these trials. Therefore, I wish you success and to intervene more courageously in such things! The truth to tell you not through the prosecution and the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u146	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! [[The students from the balcony come out of the hall.]] Goodbye to the students. I want to thank you for what you just said. To assure you that for the six months since this cabinet existed, not a single party, not a single zero, including the largest at the moment, the ruling GERB, have never shown any misunderstanding when it comes to cases of suspicion that there is gravity to one party or another. They haven't been defended by any party, and that's good! I hope it goes the same way. As for feudalism, which exists in separate schools in Bulgaria, as local elections approach, I am afraid that this may increase. That is why I promise you here from the most important place in Bulgaria that I have a carte blanche to discuss these things not only with the prosecution, but to give them to the Education Committee, with which to reconcile the next actions, so that it does not appear that the Ministry bureaucrats. If we were worried, this is from the particular case, and not politically, I assure you of that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u147	Thanks for the answer. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Cornelia Marinova about the effectiveness in the structure of the Ministry of Education and Science. Here you are, Mrs. Marinova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, my current question is related to the effectiveness in the structure of the Ministry of Education and Science. Priority under number 75 in the Government Management Programme is the reform of the state administration through functional and structural analysis. The aim of this priority is to create a stable and sustainable professional administration in the main policy areas. In the past six months of government, as you say, the current government has made significant progress in many sectors. In the education and science sector the Bulgarian society expects to respond to the screaming need for reforms and educational policies. The legislation is only one of the elements of public policies and mechanisms that are responsible for the state and development of the education system, and I do not think that reforms should necessarily be imposed on a legislative basis. I believe that the law and the rest of the legal basis should provide opportunities for development and establishment of good practices. I also believe that the structure of the Ministry, its personnel policy, the experience of the experts, the experience of your advisors in the education system, are extremely important and are a prerequisite for the success of the educational policies carried out by the Ministry. In this regard, as a Member of the National Assembly, please answer the following question: do you believe that the current structure of the Ministry of Education and Science is sufficiently effective? And what is the contribution of your seven, actually eight, counselors, if I am not mistaken, to implementing the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science so far?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u149	Thank you. Here you are, Minister, to answer for structural reforms in the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u150	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! To the question put to me by Mrs. Cornelia Marinova, I can answer that the current structure of the Ministry of Education and Science was adopted by the Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Science in 2011, after which in 2013 the structure was changed, as the Department of Physical Education and Sports at that time. Other structural changes have not been made so far. The structure of the Ministry of Education must follow the reforms undertaken and laid down. This year, the government has embarked on reforms in many areas that are more than those that have been in recent years. Including in the field of education, there has been a reform, which has not been for decades, starting from school and higher education, but continuing in the direction of terra incognito so far for the Ministry, such as vocational education and what is above it, above all education, this is the triangle of knowledge where higher education, science and business are collected. I'm not saying it was completely terra incognita what it is, but I found a structure in which we don't even have a career education directorate. We need to emancipate vocational education and that's normal. Along with this, you should make departments or department to work specifically for a relationship with the business, because the logic of this government and thanks to God that it is the business to say what to do education and not the education to produce, regardless of everything else, on the basis of the fact that there was more money in the case of greater interest of certain specialties, and from here on, the educated to do what they want. We haven't done anything about schools abroad so far. It is high time for Bulgaria to pay attention to this fact that there are Bulgarians living everywhere, we have a big diaspora and stop the bureaucratic attitude towards this: That answer will no longer be given. We need to strengthen, together with the main directorate, because there will be most of the operational work on the new Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth." We really needed a time of 2-3 months, more precisely since January, to be able to put together in a unified system the overall picture of reforms, which has already been announced and about making reform. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I suggest next week we will submit them to the Council of Ministers, the proposals are ready, the new Directorate for Vocational Education are ready, I am not talking about a department in which to have a Department of Lifelong Education, Department of Business Relations.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u151	Mr. Minister, you'll have an opportunity in the back to continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u152	Okay, thanks. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u153	Here you are, Mrs. Marinova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u154	Thank you, Minister Tanev. In fact, you did well with terra incognita because the Law on Vocational Education and Training was changed with the participation of MPs from all the political forces in the previous parliament, just to highlight the extremely important role and to harmonise vocational education with the needs of business. I would also like to say about the Bulgarians abroad "You yourself know that there is a decree of the Council of Ministers, and not since yesterday, which supports the existence, functioning of these Sunday schools. The new Preschool and School Education Act itself pays special attention to these schools, so we are working on it. Moreover, we believe that we will also reach a consensus in the National Assembly on its adoption. I asked you this question about the structure to make it clear to me first of all what your vision is on this issue. Secondly, to emphasise that there should be no politicisation in the education system. The fact that 104 specialists appointed your predecessor Minister Klisarova at the last minute and their contracts were extended as timeless, in fact proves precisely that you are not politically approachable, unlike the way the previous question was asked to you. We want clear guarantees, and this to be heard from this highest tribune in the state, that the Ministry of Education and Science has the relevant expertise for the reforms, that the Directorate of Structural Funds, which exists, will have the necessary management experience and sufficient expertise to manage one billion and three hundred million leva under the Operational Programme. We want to make sure that your advisors have enough expertise, activity in the system. This is very important in order to meet the public expectations of all participants in the education system - parents, students, teachers - and also to implement the government's program for modern and quality education. And thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your patience.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Marinova. You have also made an interest in colleague Dukova. He listened very carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u156	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u157	Mr. Minister, you have the right to duplicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u158	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs! I have full knowledge and respect for what the previous parliament has done under the Law on Vocational Education and Training. And thank you for that foundation. We have very little to add to it, because some things have changed, more precisely increased in the last year. I was talking about a structure of the Ministry of Education that doesn't fit the law that's missing. One department isn't enough. So we need to catch up with what you've done in the front line. The same is true of this decree of the Council of Ministers you are talking about. We don't have the structure we need to deal with yet. The law on pre-school and pre-school education, despite the fact that it is about to be adopted, we need to take some measures from now on to have a structure that will start working on the day on which it is adopted. I'm talking in advance. These are very good intentions that we ourselves must have the will to structure them in some way, because without structure nothing will happen. As for the General Directorate of Structural Funds, you know right there that a few days ago the big committee, the Committee of Europe, was here. Serious measures have been taken, including with the approval of the Council of Ministers to increase the numbers, with the replacements of the Director. And this is done in accordance with political forces. As far as advisors are concerned, you are entitled to the ideas that we now have for the more complete changes, most of them were appointed at the end of 2014, some of them need to be changed. Perhaps two or three will be replaced according to these new productions. Just one thing I want to say at the end, I do not want the councillors at the Ministry to duplicate the alternate ministers. There's no point in doing that. It is better to act in directions that are priority for you, of course, and for the Ministry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u159	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next question again by the MP Mrs. Cornelia Marinova on the policy of countering aggression in school. Here you are, Mrs. Marinova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, my second current question to you relates to the policy of countering aggression. Since the beginning of the term, you have stated as a major priority in your future work the fight, countering various forms of aggression at school. In this regard, I would like to remind you of a project which was carried out within the framework of the Human Resources Development Operational Programme 2007-2013, and in particular from February 2013 to December 2014. The project "Qualification of pedagogical specialists." It envisioned a 75 million budget to be spent to train 42,000. Teachers are actually a little over half, 1500 assistant directors and 2200 directors. Meanwhile, before the start of this programme, about 80 percent of the teachers said that they did not have the necessary readiness to deal with the cases of aggression at school, which is why one of the forms of qualification, which, in the meantime, was realized not only on this project, but was aimed at improving the qualification of pedagogical specialists to combat the various forms of aggression at school. In this sense, and in view of the sustainability of the results, my question to you is: what is the number of pedagogical specialists trained in this form during the period 2012 - 2014? Is an analysis of these trainings prepared? How do pedagogical specialists trained on this topic apply the acquired competences at school? In addition, perhaps regional education inspectors could also provide you with sufficient information on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Marinova. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u162	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The main thing that has been done recently is the project that you mentioned from 3.01. This is the main thing that has been done. According to what I know about it, because it has completed its action, 11 thousand were trained in the territory of all 28 district centres in the nearest period from January 2014 to mid-August 2014. 317 pedagogical specialists, which represents 87% of the defined indicator, which is 80%. This indicator was set. The Ministry believes that quantitative parameters have been achieved. As for the quality ones, yes, we have a report made. It is long, I can present it if you wish. The aim of the training was greater capacity for dealing in real situations, the focus is on real situations. To have, in addition to qualification in this particular area, the violence, greater confidence and motivation. The focus is to improve the relationship of teacher and student, as well as transfer of knowledge, skills to the entire school group; team work on prevention of aggression and violence; and something important. Part of the practical consequences is increasing the number of psychologists in schools. The training has achieved its goal. There are several other stocks that are smaller than this project. According to the programme "Qualification " in 2013 - 120 educators, 2014 Teachers, a small number of educators. According to the National Program "Development of pedagogical staff" for 2015 there are also led ones. In short, I can say that these are good funds in the past, but for what the entire society registers, a sharp change in times of violence, such casion measures will not be sufficient at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u163	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Marinova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u164	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I can't agree with you at all that this is about casion measures. We're talking about an extremely serious project. It is extremely important for us to do an analysis of the results. From what you have answered, Mr. Minister, it is clear that there is no such analysis, and I believe it should be drawn up. I believe that the experience that colleagues have received as a result of participation in the qualification forms must also be distributed because there is a requirement under the Operational Programme for Stability of Results. I would be grateful if I could get an estimate of how much money has been spent on improving the competences to counter aggression at school. You keep statistics, I know, in December were requested references. There are cases like this, they're registered, they're growing. But excuse me if we step on the white paper and start writing everything in the letter "A" we're not going anywhere! Mr. Minister, I simply insist that such an analysis be drawn up! I demand to know the resource used! I demand that the action plan that you promised us to have until Easter to counter aggression be a real fact so that we know what we are doing next. Let us not claim that we are starting over or that the growth is extremely high. In the previous team during the management of GERB there was a very positive experience. At least we, as acting people in the system, school principals, then we reported it. Mobile groups with leading psychologists and experts in cases where a very competent, fast intervention is required. Do you intend to use this experience that has shown good results, or do you think that everything you've done is casionous? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Marinova. Professor Tanev, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u166	You can't downplay what you've done with this project. This has not been done on such scale and with such consequences, and in this sense I apologize for the word. I meant an emotionally different thing that continues to grow seriously, at least for me these are serious figures, so I said that word. In the sense that more measures need to be taken, on the basis of what has been done, but also new, with other sciences imported inside. The issue is far from merely educational, pedagogical, and it is beginning to affect other ministries, not just internal affairs. I don't mean for every student to have a police officer. This is not at all what we are talking about at all, but here the Ministry of Youth and Sports is essential. We have talked to Krasen Kralev about strengthening the compulsory sport, for example. I hope this happens one day as we had it and as it is in many other countries. Of course, the Ministry of Culture should be involved and so on. Indeed, we had promised earlier, by the end of April was the promise to be made. We didn't make it. The huge problem we had then was the preparations for the other day a European Committee for the Operational Programme. The creation of administrative capacity for such a programme in the Ministry, in which such a thing has never been done, has indeed proved to be a very big task. Thank God it wasn't a stumbling stone at all. Thank God! And this was first reported by our European colleagues who were here. Now comes the time when the school year is over or the school year is over, let's turn to that again with the others. Let's go back after exams and everything else that was too heavy as tension. I know we're in debt.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u167	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thus, your oral questions in today's parliamentary control are exhausted. You have fulfilled your constitutional obligations to answer questions and questions to the MPs. The next provided question by the MP Kalina Balabanova regarding the appointment of specialists in the team of the Minister of Education and Science is transformed and the request is for written answer. We move on to the responses of the Minister of Agriculture and Food Mrs. Desislava Taneva. The first question to her is from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova and the National Representative Dobrin Danev on the provision of meadows and pastures to owners of livestock sites. Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! My question concerns the possibility of providing meadows and pastures to owners of establishments. In two Parliaments, we are trying to resolve this issue with a change in legislation. Various procedures, various opportunities were proposed to provide farmers with access to meadows and pastures in order to stabilise their economic activity and also to create conditions for Bulgaria to fulfil its commitments that it has undertaken with its entry into the European Union. As you are well aware, the big problem is that we need to ensure a minimal ratio between the requested areas of single payment to the respective pastures we have. You know that Bulgaria in recent years is below this percentage. At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, there was a question about how many pastures were outlined. It turned out that they were 40% less compared to the previous year - about 2 million. $800,000. Dekara. With the amendments adopted to the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land, it was also provided for the owners of livestock sites to be granted meadows and pastures without tender, but here arises a question which concerns most of the municipalities. Despite their desire to provide these pastures to livestock farmers, they are not informed of what the eligible layer is. Most often contracts are concluded for the so-called "ineligible layer', which means that farmers have commitments to clean pastures within a few months from the conclusion of the contract until the controls. Most often this ends with the findings that they are not in good condition, sanctions for farmers within one or more years. My question is how will you correspond with the municipalities so that you can overcome this problem, which is related to the unacceptable layer of meadows and pastures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u169	Thank you. To answer, Mrs. Taneva, Minister of Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Professor. Bachvarova! Mr. Danev, I see he's absent from the gym. According to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land, promulgated in the Official Gazette of 20 February 2015, pastures, meres and meadows of municipal and state land funds are granted for use without auction or competition to owners or users of establishments with registered pastures. The aim is to satisfy the needs of such persons from pasture areas and the use of the property as intended, namely for the grazing of animals. This request was repeatedly placed by the livestock farmers and Prof. Bachvarova mentioned that an attempt was already made for such a regulation, but it was very unsuccessful because he, under the previous procedure and a change in the Law on Property, did not produce any action. We can take into account today, despite the short term, 133 municipalities are currently holding and closing the procedure, which was adopted with the February 2015 amendment and a million and 700 thousand. Dekara pastures, merri and meadows of municipal land funds are provided for distribution. Undoubtedly, this procedure is being conducted for the first time and it has its problems as well. Rental of agricultural land, including pastures not covered by the specialised area eligible for support shall in no way prevent the farmer who hired them from requesting them for support and receiving direct payments if, of course, they are in the appropriate condition. Where the farmer is sure that the area declared is already in good condition and enjoys it in such a way that it meets the requirements for support, he may outline it despite the warning that the system will generate. It is also important to know that all areas which are declared in whole or in part outside the specialized layer of areas eligible for support at the date of application are necessarily subject to verification. The check can be remoted by deciphering a new, up-to-date digital ortho-photocard by satellite or aerial filming, or terrain by on-site inspection and measuring with GPS. In this sense, it is not even necessary to apply on a provisional basis for verification. They shall be appointed by service and upon establishment of a good condition of an area, the area shall be covered by the eligible layer for the year concerned and shall be subject to support. Finally, I cannot agree with the claim that there is no publicly available information on the scope of the qualifying layer. Farmers, municipalities or other interested parties may consult and obtain information on the state of their interests. In accordance with art. 33a, para. 5 of the Agricultural Support Act, the data on a layer of areas eligible for support are public and are announced on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the State Fund. In order to facilitate the persons concerned, the data on the scope of the eligible layer shall be provided by districts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u171	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u172	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. The procedure is clear, but the fact is that sanctions for farmers and livestock farmers because the layer is ineligible are a fact, and you know that every year livestock farmers are dropping out of support on this line. However, the unacceptable layer implies efforts that require long-term contracts, also require a significant financial resource. In this regard, my questions are related to whether the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has the vision to direct the support of pastures according to the regions, accordingly making the necessary adjustments in time to reach them in good condition? The reason in Plovdiv district, in Pazardzhik district, you have no problems within a few months to ensure that pastures and meadows are able to be eligible for support, but in mountain and semi-mountain areas where the majority of pastures prevail respectively, this thing is virtually impossible. Apart from that, there are many contradictions between municipalities, forestry farms, municipal services "Agriculture and forests." Bulgaria, like other countries, is also able to make it more liberal for these mountain and semi-mountain areas to ensure that within at least five years they enter the situation in which they make their commitments to pastures. And again, I want to bring you back to the question of Bulgaria should support 6 million. 300,000 acres of grassland as required by the European Union. Applications for 2 million have been submitted. 800,000 acres. The reason is the sanctions. Those penalties are mainly and exclusively for livestock farmers. I continue to argue that the requirements for an unacceptable layer restrict farmers and create problems ultimately for obtaining subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u173	Thank you, Professor. Bachvarova. Here you are for the coat, Minister Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u174	Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, you said one false statement. For 2014, the requested pastures, meria and meadows or permanent grassland for support are 4.8 million. hectares. The campaign has not been completed at the moment. With the extension of the deadline, it will end on 23 June to announce how much such a fund has been requested for this year. Including today, which is the last term, municipalities, where distribution takes place, conclude contracts that will be registered for a legal basis. Once the campaign is over, we will announce how many are requested for assistance measures, pastures and meadows or permanent grasslands for this year. Secondly, with regard to eligibility conditions. If you do not know, you obviously do not know, from this campaign we have changed the conditions for what the criteria are to allow permanent grassland for support. They are as relieved as possible under the regulations, i.e. in terms of growing, the number of trees on the relevant area They are more liberal for these users, I hope, livestock farmers, and you can get acquainted with that. Thirdly, as far as your thesis is concerned, we must increase the permanent grasslands at the same time, yes, indisputably, but at the same time you claim that it does not follow eligible pastures and measures to be allocated. To increase them, we must constantly increase the volume of permanent grassland that is eligible and supported. So there's nothing wrong with that. Yes, there is an initial cost in terms of bringing it into a form eligible for support, but the criteria are also more liberal. Secondly, with regard to the term of office, as you know, with the changes to the Property Act, which we made in February, there is now a new deadline that we have announced on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The period is a minimum of six years for long term, exactly for the period that coincides with the period of agroecology. So this thesis you just presented is also false. For one year there are only these measures, pastures and meadows of distribution, at a third auction, when no more applications by livestock farmers are available. And for exactly one year, so that the livestock farmers can be given for those six years. That is the Law that we have changed since February.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u175	Thank you, Madam Secretary. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Patriotic Front, I give the floor for a declaration to Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u176	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! I will read a statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front. The patriotic front strongly objects to the proposals made by the European Commission for the distribution of new illegal immigrants among the Member States, which severely damages Bulgaria. The proposal is according to a scheme of so-called "quotas" according to which Bulgaria accounts for another 1.43% of the total number of migrants or 343 people from Italy and 229 people from Greece. Separately we are offered 216 illegal immigrants from countries outside the European Union, which are located in UN humanitarian camps, or a total of new 788 people who want to be accommodated on our territory. This number does not cancel the desire of the Federal Republic of Germany to return more than 4,000 illegal immigrants registered in Bulgaria but captured in Germany. The European Commission's proposal for the distribution of illegal immigrants, often mistakenly called refugees, is unfair, non-solidal and contrary to Bulgarian national interests. In it Bulgaria is treated not as a country in an emergency situation, like Italy and Greece, but as one of the Member States that should accept more illegal immigrants from Italy and Greece. Of course, Italy and Greece deserve assistance from the European Commission, but the separation of Bulgaria from such a category of status is unfair and unsolidarized. This attitude is completely unfair, first of all, because Bulgaria is a country with the lowest life and gross domestic product in the European Union. It is therefore the most difficult to support illegal immigrants who are already in our territory. For 2014 alone, Bulgaria has given asylum to 7020 illegal immigrants and, for comparison, Greece has given only 3250 people. Secondly, in proportion to the number of Member States' populations, immigrants on our territory are already much more than other Member States. To 1 million people Bulgaria has granted asylum 2.76 times more than Greece and 2.87 times more than Italy. We strongly object to this proposal from the European Commission. We urge the Council of Ministers and the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria not to accept the proposal made by the European Commission and to insist that Bulgaria be declared a country in an emergency within the meaning of art. 78, para. 3 of the Treaty on European Union, as proposed by Italy and Greece. Since this proposal was made yesterday, we believe it is necessary to inform the Bulgarian National Assembly and the Bulgarian government, so that we do not find ourselves again surprised by a decision that damages Bulgaria's budget, a budget that is strongly demanding to pay pensions and salaries, to ensure the education and health of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Private applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u177	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. We move on to the next question in the order of today's parliamentary control to the Minister of Agriculture and Food Mrs. Taneva. He is from the National Representative Dimitar Delchev on violations in municipal forest areas and Municipal Land Fund of Koprivshtitsa Municipality and control by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and its structures. Here you go, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, in the summer of 2014 by decision of the Municipal Council of Koprivshtitsa, a Commission was established to check the way of management and use of measures and pastures by the Municipal Land Fund. During the verification the cleaning of shrubs, self-forested wood, including cutting of trees at a different percentage in individual pastures and measures, including in self-forested forests over 20 years old. The protocol shows that it is not clear which parts of the rented properties have become forests within the meaning of the Forest Act and should not be cut down, but were cut down. The minutes are presented for consideration at a session of the Municipal Council, but no measures have been taken. At the beginning of 2015 employees from the Operational Programme of Koprivshtitsa have established a constant protocol for illegal logging of 230 white pine trees in sub-section 9033. In the summer of 2014, the municipality of Koprivshtitsa entered into a contract with the farmer, to whom 8,000 acres of municipal pastures and measures are devoted, without registered pastures. In this regard, there are numerous complaints from citizens of Koprivshtitsa. In January 2015, the municipality of Koprivshtitsa referred to the competent authorities and until now it has not been clear whether a check has been made, what are the specific results and the measures taken to address all of the listed committed infringements. As the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is responsible for all activities that take place in the forests, I have a few questions: Has action been taken to establish which lands in the municipality of Koprivshtitsa have become forests? Are actions taken again by the Ministry to prevent and cross illegal activities in municipal forest areas and agricultural land owned by the municipality of Koprivshtitsa? What are the results of these? Have actions been carried out to prevent the renting of a huge part of the Municipal Land Fund by the municipality of Koprivshtitsa to only one person? What are the forms of permissible intervention in the cleaning of pastures and measures in the territory of the municipality of Koprivshtitsa by tenants according to the provisions of the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Property, the Law on Protected Areas and the Law on Biological Diversity?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u179	For an answer Minister Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u180	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Delchev, I want to thank you for the question you are asking me, not only to try in the short time we have, to give some factual data, but because the question is also principled. There are enough complaints to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food about the way in which municipal and local authorities manage this land fund -- merri, pastures and meadows -- even forest -- and the extent to which the Ministry's powers are to enforce the current law on ownership and use of agricultural land in relation to municipal land and permanent grassland. On the case at hand. During the period 2013 - 2014 a planned inventory of forest areas was carried out within the territory of the municipality of Koprivshtitsa. New forest areas of 523 hectares have been established, of which 232 hectares have the characteristics of forest over 10 years of age and are described as plantings, as well as 291 thousand. hectares that have acquired forest characteristics during the last 10-year period. There is a forestry plan adopted at the Expert Council, but has not been established at present, as the assessment procedure for the compatibility of the forestry plan has not been completed with the object and objectives of the conservation of the relevant protected zone provided for in the Biodiversity Act. The necessary documents were submitted by state forestry to Pirdop at the Ministry of Environment and Water on 14 April 2015. From the beginning of this year to May in connection with received signals concerning the area of the town of Koprivshtitsa, two inspections were carried out of employees from the Executive Agency for Forests and a number of additional checks were carried out by employees of the Regional Forests Directorate Sofia. On the basis of field verification data, it is estimated that a total of 1073 cubic metres of wood was obtained in 2014 and 2015 for agricultural land leased to farmers. For this property in 2014 no documents were issued for extraction and transport of wood. In 2015, a municipal enterprise "Koprivshtitsa" illegally issued four permits for cleaning wood and shrub vegetation from agricultural properties under the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Property. The exact date of issue of the permits cannot be established as they were not brought into the municipal enterprise's legal system in due time. The registration took place on 6 May 2015 when one of the controls was carried out. These permits do not contain the required mandatory props and contradict the requirements of the regulations. During the months of February and March 2015, the municipal enterprise in Koprivshtitsa issued transport tickets to transport 1044 cubic metres of wood from the inspected property, allowing a number of omissions and violations in the issue of these documents. There is no designated logging permit and there is no authorisation of the persons by the mayor of the municipality, no separate props have been filled in in vehicles tickets. In January, employees of the municipal enterprise have compiled constant protocols for illegal extraction of 137 cubic metres of wood, but the same was not detained in due time and was subsequently stolen. There are other checks, I just don't have time. As a result of the checks 16 acts of established administrative violations have been drawn up, including the mayor of Koprivshtitsa Municipality, the former governor and employees of the Municipal Enterprise "Koprivshtitsa" as well as other legal and natural persons. In relation to the employees of the Regional Directorate of Forests, Sofia, responsible for the implementation of the control in the region of Koprivshtitsa, disciplinary proceedings have been initiated, which are in procedure. The findings of the checks were sent by the Executive Agency for Forests and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, sent to the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Environment and Water, the National Revenue Agency, the Sofia District Governor, the Municipality of Koprivshtitsa and the Paying Agency of the State Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u181	A line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u182	Madam Minister, thank you for this information. It is obvious that the municipality of Koprivshtitsa has carried out a number of illegal actions related to the forest fund there. It is obvious that the Ministry is doing checks and I hope that the work with the District Attorney's Office will be smooth and that you will inform the authorities of the Prosecutor's Office in due time, because, as we know, according to the Criminal Code, each of these actions qualifies as a criminal offence. It is good for the people who have committed this crime to suffer this punishment, whether they are private or employees in the regional institutions. Thank you for your information and I hope both in Koprivshtitsa and in the other municipalities of Sofia area, where there are problems with the forest territories, with the illegal clearing I mean the municipality of Botevgrad, and Samokov municipality and other municipalities that affect the Gorski Fund, focus there because the problem is really serious and the local people are seriously concerned about their forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u183	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u184	Mr. Delchev, I use your question to answer in principle, and you will receive many more facts from me about the case you mentioned a violation, including a decision by the Municipality Council of Koprivshtitsa, which is not in accordance with the laws to be followed. Regarding the many complaints that arrive at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food about the management of the municipal permanent grassland fund of land, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the district governor is the authority that controls the decisions of the municipal councils. In this regard, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Where we have good communication with local authorities, I personally call the mayor of the respective municipality that he must implement this Law. We, as the Ministry, are not the authority that can command the municipality. I have initiated two meetings with the National Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria to explain the procedure for this distribution, which is new. To date, I can give you the latest information that 193 municipalities are completing procedures for the allocation of such a fund, as this is about an agricultural fund and when the procedure is completed, where it is forested, it will become a forest with the relevant act. I use the case to answer that in principle the district managers must know the Law well and control the decision of the councils on the application of the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land for the benefit of Bulgarian livestock farmers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u185	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We move on to questions from the MPs Boris Yachev and Manol Genov with the same subject of inquiry, which is why they will be answered in the form of a common answer. First to develop his question has the word of the people representative Boris Yachev and his question is about the property ownership of the enterprise..Zeminvest. in the land of the village of Vojvodinovo, the municipality of Maritsa. Here you go, Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, my question is related to the property owned by the enterprise "Zeminvest" in the land of the village of Vojvodinovo, the municipality of Maritsa, Plovdiv district. Residential property of 480 acres in the village of Vojvodinovo, the municipality of Maritsa is owned by Zeminvest. Of these 61 acres are streets in the village, four blocks are apartments and numerous hitchhikers. Private houses were also built on this land property, which practically separates an entire neighborhood in the village of Vojvodinovo. There are now about 250 inhabitants of the village living in this neighborhood. At the same time, the company "Zeminvest" has a functioning water supply system that serves about 60 private subscribers and 10 enterprises in the village of Vojvodinovo. As an undertaking "Zeminvest" is in a difficult financial situation, it is not able to set aside funds for both the maintenance of infrastructure in the land and the maintenance of the existing and operated water supply network. The people living in the land owned by the town of Maritsa paid local taxes and fees, which, however, did not commit to the building of this neighborhood, as the land is not municipal property. As a result, the eleven streets of the land property of Zeminvest are in a miserable state without pavements, asphalting and drainage channels. In the Government's Management Programme as a priority of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, it is written: "Restructuring of an enterprise "Zemenvest" in the light of its difficult financial situation and many obligations. In the light of the foregoing, my question to you, Madam Minister, is: what measures does the Ministry of Agriculture and Food provide for the future of the land estate of the company "Zeminvest" in the land of the village of Vojvodinovo, the municipality of Maritsa and the water facilities that are served and used by the inhabitants of the village?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u187	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. A question from the National Representative Manol Genov concerning the activity of illegal activity by the town of Sofia in the form of the provision of water supply and sewerage services on the territory of the municipality of Maritsa in the land of the village of Vojvodinovo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u188	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! Makes the impression that we have the same social sensitivity with our colleague. We never agreed to ask those questions. Apparently, he has something to do with the voters and the problems they pose. My question, Madam Minister, is about carrying out illegal activity by "Zeminvest" EAD in the form of the provision of water supply and sewerage services on the territory of the municipality of Maritsa in the land of the village of Vojvodinovo. "Zeminvest" performs the above mentioned services on the territory of the municipality of Maritsa in violation of a number of laws in force on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria "The Water Act and the Law for the Regulation of Water Supply and Sewerage Services." The water and sewerage facilities operated by this company were built tens of years ago, are highly depreciated and clearly due to a lack of funds or reluctance by the company they are not supported. The range of service provides more than 30 business and more than 120 household subscribers who often have complaints about the quality of drinking water. That is, by inaction, the company that collects money from consumers thus endangers their lives and health. Dear Minister, my question is as follows: given the following violations, what measures will you take to end the years-long violations of the above laws by the City of Sofia, carrying out parallel activities on the territory of Plovdiv, together with the water operator? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u189	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Madam Minister, please come in within six minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u190	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Yachev, Dear Mr. Genov, in 1996. "Zeminvest" EAD acquires ownership of the former farm yard of the state farm in the village of Vojvodinovo, the municipality of Maritsa. Within the farm yard is included an object consisting of a pumping station, a water underground facility, a water supply network and a drainage sewerage network and the site itself has been in operation since 1955. It has been granted a permit by the Ministry of Environment and Waters for use since 2002 and a permit for underground water capture through existing water-borne facilities issued by the Pool Directorate since 2012. In 2010 for this site was issued a certificate for entry in the register of a public-use establishment by the Ministry of Health, according to art. 306, para. 3 of the Health Act. In recent years, the company has carried out repair activities on the plumbing network, with more than 80% of the etheric plumbing replaced by polyethylene. For its public purpose, the site is under periodic health control by RIOCOS. "Zeminvest" provides a service to 57 households and 15 production enterprises, as well as the disposal of waste water to 205 households, kindergarten in the village of Vojvodinovo and 5 production enterprises. The supply of drinking water to subscribers in the former state farm in the village of Vojvodinovo was inherited activities 19 years ago by the company when it acquired the property. The economic effect of water supply is a loss of the company. However, given the social effect that the supply of drinking water has, the company cannot cease this activity, since the local population has no alternative. In view of the non-military activity carried out, "Zeminvest" has sent an official letter to the Water and Water Network to Plovdiv, to be transferred to them all the water and water pump facilities, water and water supply facilities, and to the shipping network as such a licensed operator to carry out this activity, but not to harm households in any case, as well as production enterprises. The company also owns and manages the street network and sidewalks built in the business yard of the village of Vojvodinovo. It all comes from the fact that the Zeminvest itself creates and the properties of the former TTZS are with him those that have not been acquired. Their total area is about 60 decares according to the plan. Currently, correspondence is taking place between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Mayor of the Municipality of Maritsa to transfer the property rights of the elements of transport and technical infrastructure, roads and sewerage in the village of Vojvodinovo from the company of the municipality. When we have this willingness and will to give them to both the water and the municipality, when they have that will, we are ready to transfer them and everyone to carry out the activities for which they are obliged, because it is really for the Zeminvest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u191	Thank you, Madam Secretary. First line, the People's Representative Mr. Yachev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u192	Thank you for your reply, Madam Minister, although my colleague Manol Genov, in my opinion, received more information about the future of the water supply facility. Yes, indeed this is vital for Vojvodin's facility, which is logical and to be transferred to the VK operator of Plovdiv region or to the municipality. I'll let my colleague develop this subject. It was important to understand the intentions of the Ministry of Agriculture regarding the future of this land, on which, as you said, there are streets, and there are private buildings, and there are apartments that are now private property. As far as I know from the representatives of the municipality of Maritsa, they have prepared not only correspondence letters with the Ministry, but there is a readiness if, by the end of this year, this transfer of the land to the streets, which are in the territory of the land, those around 65 decares, occurs by the end of the year, at the end of this calendar year, can be included in the budget for the next year of the municipality of Maritsa and there will be provision for some budgetary means for improving sewage, asphalting, as none of the streets have asphalt, building and so on. My request is for a greater dynamic and a greater initiative by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. At the same time, if possible within the next answer that you will make, you can say, however, what are the intentions of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food on the future of the entire enterprise, as many people are working in it. For example, the manager of the village of Vojvodinovo has not received a salary since January. It is more than clear that we are on our way to disbanding this enterprise. Is this the intention of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and at what rate do you intend to implement this process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u193	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Second line, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u194	Dear Minister, honourable Members, dear Mr. Chairman! Indeed, these water supply facilities are a heavy inheritance for the Zeminvest. You said about the water-use permits he has. You said you were taking back water. I didn't hear if he had permission to leave. This is also mandatory when such an activity takes place and is still in breach of existing regulations. This company also has no registration in the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. You missed saying that, too. In addition, the intention of the new President is to introduce a licensing regime. This really hinders when on the territory of an area it is the only facility. There is another one in Asenovgrad that can prevent Plovdiv district and entirely the operator as a beneficiary of the Operational Program "Environment" to capitalise. So you are aware of the situation, you are aware of the necessity and social significance of this service. The best thing is, if it's public government property, transfer it to the consolidation company to stay and have the plumbing run it and so on. Then the municipality should be looking for opportunities for streets and other things. So I'm glad, I hope, of your good intentions. I don't know when you proposed to VK Plovdiv, I didn't have that information, if you say so. Let's make this happen soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u195	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Here you are, Madam Minister, in four minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u196	Mr. Genov, this has been made official by letter for sure. There's nothing else he can do. It's the only right thing to do. Yes, some of the permits are gone, but given the social impact we have not undertaken by entering into management to stop this service, because we will put households and businesses that are not responsible for the case without water supply. With regard to Expeditivity, yes, I will personally make every effort to do so by the end of the year, but that depends on the other side. I apologize for the municipality of Maritsa, I don't know which election district you're from, who's from there...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u197	From the same guy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u198	If you cooperate, I have not been notified of an official letter by the Municipality of Maritsa, but whatever needs to be done as a procedure, we would do so quickly.................................................................. to come as soon as next week. We will initiate the procedure so that the municipality has a vision for the development of the area there. As regards the company in principle. In the company in general, as you know, short history has been told here, there are many properties that are not used. A very small part of them are rented out, even at prices that are debatable to the extent of market, but there are also dams that perform irrigation functions. What have we done? He had a lot of obligations. There still is, but maybe next week some of them will pay off. One of the two told you about salaries. I can assure you that next week's wages will be paid. What did we do when we entered the mandate? First we started with an inventory of the property, which manages a huge part and without the relevant documents certifying the property. Already in the term of office on the last possible day was saved a property in Varna on a mortgage scheme for a debt of 300,000. lv. On the last day, funds were also found to save its acquisition against 300,000. lv. I'd like to announce that a week ago at an open public auction, the same property was sold for 2.5 million. This revenue will pay off debts that are over 1 million. or around this amount, inventory estimates will be drawn and the inventory of all the properties it has and is interested in will be open public tenders offered for sale to investors who develop them. With regard to dams having irrigation functions, appropriate actions will be carried out to serve farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u199	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We move on to a question from the National Representative Stefan Kenov about non-compliance in the provision of state aid vouchers..A reduced active rate on the gas oil used in primary agricultural production by using a vouchers system for fuel and the really processed area and the right fuel. Mr. Kenov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! In connection with a letter from Mrs. Rumyana Angelova, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the National Association of Grain Producers with EH. No 1550 of 26 January 2015 of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food it became clear that around 151 million were claimed during the first stage of the aid. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. I gas for the whole year. A simple farmland account with Decro's norm indicates that the figures are correct. At the same time, however, according to data provided by the NRA by letter to Mrs. Rumyana Angelova, Chairman of the National Association of Grain Producers with EH. No 15002 of 30 January is claimed that farmers received fuel vouchers for 983.5 million in 2014. L under the State aid scheme reduced active gas oil rate used in the initial agricultural production through a fuel vouchers system. There's obviously a difference between these numbers. Here I would like to add that Minister Goranov said that these are data from the Ministry of Agriculture and are not data from the National Revenue Agency, so he transferred the ball to your garden. As the aid for providing in the form of pre-set fuel vouchers and nominal value, please answer the following questions: how many vouchers are printed and how many are distributed? Where is the difference and who has acquired the value of the excise duty over 700 million? A gallon? In the meantime, I'd like to express my disagreement. In this case, I had asked you for a written answer, for which you refused data for the fact that personal data was contained inside. I believe that, as a Member of the National Assembly, I was entitled to this information and that cannot be the Minister's apology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u201	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u202	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Kenov! I think the issue of these numbers has long been clear, but obviously no, we'll say the numbers. The data reported for the implementation of the reduced excise duty rate scheme on gas oil used in agriculture shall be generated by an information system which is a specialised software application to the integrated administration and control system administered by the State Fund of Agriculture. Since the software is a dynamic environment, the data from it is correct at the moment they are extracted. In this regard, according to a reference extracted from the system during the first stage of the scheme, 44 830 were awarded. vouchers of 13 654 pcs. farmers. In view of the procedure for the service of vouchers, according to which a voucher is awarded to the farmer by printout of the software for the application of the aid in the presence of the beneficiary and after signature by him, the number of the printed and served vouchers is the same. During the first phase of the application of State aid in 2014, farmers received a discount of 151 million. Ninety-seven thousand. L fuel, which accounted for 60% of the quantity requested in 2014. Following the completion of the adoption of the final State aid declarations in February 2015, a reference shows that farmers have actually accounted for the spent fuel for 2014 at the amount of 230 million. Literature. That's the data. With the submission of the second package of vouchers in 2015, farmers will receive the discount for the remaining up to 40%, subject to the total State aid ceiling of 84 million. lv. And according to this data, if you're asking the National Grains Association for the letter, there's an agreement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u203	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Kenov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u204	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'm satisfied with your answer. So it is already clear that these are the obvious data that this with the 930 million litres is not at all true and thus disarm the colleagues from GERB, who of our wishes to remove the level meters for farmers in terms of changing the VAT Act, which I promise you and the farmers, we will bring it as a first point next week again as a continuation and ask all our colleagues to support it. The insinuation that farmers have huge amounts of fuel that sell without excise duty back and forth and hold 40% of the market for illegal fuel is simply not true and these data lead us all to this false reasoning. Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u205	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u206	In the context of the duplicate to which I am entitled, I would like to say that the State aid scheme which applies to vouchers fuels is sufficiently heavy in accordance with the standard of the farmer concerned, according to the type of production, and there is no way to allow any more fuel vouchers or to be used more than that notified under State aid and the type of production standard which is strictly regulated. Yeah, those are the numbers. This system is heavy enough for farmers to administer it. Small farmers have an additional difficulty with the use of vouchers. In small settlements, there were problems with fuel traders to accept small gas stations. So even the maximum limit of this state aid, which we have, 84 million, will probably not be satisfied in its very full volume, but not to mention larger liters.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u207	Thank you, Madam Secretary. With knowledge, consent and a collegiate feeling by Prof. Bachvarova, which allows the public representative Slavi Binev to ask his question to the Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva, and it is about irregularities in the implementation of the current Public Procurement Act in relation to public procurement, projects under which they are financed under the Rural Development Programme 2007-2013. Mr. Binev, order to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! Professor Bachvarova, thank you very much for your collegiate feeling. My question is about possible violations of the Rural Development Programme during the 2007-2013 period. This is extremely important for Bulgaria and the European Commission is following us very closely. There are signals with doubts about irregularities in the application of the current Public Procurement Act and the spending of the funds under the Programme. We are talking about two specific cases, selected at random, which outline the problem as a whole: public contracts with subject consulting services, contracting entity "Yakoruda municipality," and Hadjidimovo municipality. Financial and economic situation requirements have been laid down, which in both cases is close to the maximum threshold for such a requirement, i.e. 50% of the estimated value of the contract, i.e. the guarantee must be worth almost 50%. This limits the possibility for most small and medium-sized enterprises to take part in the procedures, although they are a priority in the economic strategy and policy of the European Union. Such practice can be seen as a violation of the principles followed by the European institutions and have a negative effect on small and medium-sized businesses in the country. Such a high requirement for candidates seems unusual and inappropriate, and perhaps it has been made for some other reasons. Such unjustified decisions of the administration create an idea that the procedures are being organised in order to select specific candidates. What are you going to do to clear these doubts and people return their trust in these procedures?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u209	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u210	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Binev, the public procurement with the subject of the project "Consultancy services for implementation and reporting of the activities under the Project "Development of the Waste Water Purification Station from the sewerage system of the village of Yurukovo, Yakoruda Municipality, measure 321 under the Rural Development Programme" was awarded by conducting an open procedure under the Public Procurement Act and was announced in the register of public procurement on 20 November 2014 with estimated value of 25 thousand. £378. without VAT. On 20 February 2015, the municipality of Yakoruda was submitted to the State Fund...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The contracting authority has set minimum requirements for the economic and financial situation under the contract notice, namely for participants to have a financial resource of 12 thousand. £689. without VAT. In accordance with art. 50, para. 1 of the Public Procurement Act contracting entities shall require the financial and economic situation of candidates if a financial resource is required for the performance of the contract, the amount of which may not exceed 50 percent of the estimated value of the contract, the candidates or participants may demonstrate the existence of requirements by the contracting entity with a certificate from a bank or an annual financial statement or some of its constituent parts. The State Fund has carried out a follow-up control of the legality of the contract under the rules of a preliminary check procedure and subsequent control of public procurement procedures for approved investment costs financed in whole or in part by the European and Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. In view of the subject matter of the contract, the selected contractor will need financial resources to provide materials, supplies, wages, etc. for the performance of the contract and the normal running of the work process. This gives the contracting authority the legal right to require participants to have a financial resource of 50 per cent of the estimated value of the contract. This corresponds to art. 50, para. 1 of the Public Procurement Act. In the verification carried out by the State Fund, it was found that in the public procurement an application for participation had submitted seven participants, of which six had reached the final ranking. One contestant has been suspended. No participant is suspended because of the requirement to have a financial resource. The offers are assessed under the criterion of the most economically advantageous offer. The first-placed participant offered the lowest price of BGN 6880. without VAT. In the verification carried out, no discriminatory or restrictive conditions have been established in the selection and evaluation criteria laid down in the notice and the participation documents. No data were found to result in financial losses for the Community budget. The requirement for participants to have a financial resource equal to 50 per cent of the estimated value of the contract is lawful and meets the requirements of national European legislation. The public contract with subject: Consultancy services for implementation and accounting of projects concluded by Hadjidimovo Municipality Grant Contracts of 12 February 2013 has not yet been submitted to the State Fund of Agriculture for carrying out follow-up control of legality. These are the specific cases that are listed in your question. I would just like to add that the State Fund is carrying out ex ante and ex post controls, but I will also agree with you that there are public procurements under which the eligibility and participation criteria lay down conditions which prejudge one or another candidate to be a winner and this, for example, is not always the most economically advantageous for the state, its funds or Community funds. However, the problem cannot be solved by the implementing authorities, and in my opinion, its resolution should be sought in the Public Procurement Act, which I know is to be seen by the National Assembly. We, as an implementing body, of the Rural Development Programme, know that for the new programming period it has been approved by the Commission. We will announce on the site an indicative timetable for the receptions. This may happen on Monday, with measures related to the municipalities likely to be next year. In the regulations we will try to limit the possibilities for determining the winners, but ultimately we cannot do anything outside the Law. Or a solution should be sought in changing the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u211	Thank you, Madam Secretary. For a cue please, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! It's hard to give advice to a minister, but I'll allow myself to do that. Indeed, your employees may be making a mistake: they want to present in any way that there is no problem. When you spoke, and you didn't read what they wrote to you, you were much more sincere and much more accurate. There's trouble. This is obvious because, when we analyzed the previous programming period, there were a lot of disabilities that had to be liquidated. We must do everything possible in the law that we must adopt, or the law that is being prepared right now, to be so perfect that there is no doubt in these people. Many of them have already given up applying for programmes at all, as they believe they are pre-conditioned. Therefore, my question to you is absolutely single: what are you going to do about these issues, so that trust in potential beneficiaries can return and that there are really people who understand the meaning of applying for European programmes? This may also be related to the communication strategy, which should be at the level and not only to pull the numbers or veiled payment the comfort of one or another ministry, but to really give available information to each potential beneficiary what are the opportunities in which he can use money from European programmes. I think this is the most important thing, and we need to do everything we can to restore trust in people. My opinion is that it will be much easier to bring it back if we say: "Yes, there are mistakes! " This is how we can handle it, and I am deeply glad that you understand that so far there have been great problems, mistrust in people is great, and we must do everything we can to bring it back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u213	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u214	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Binev! Of course, in no case can I say that there is no problem, because there are also many cases that are known and, by the way, are not finalised or approved by the Fund. There are cases of a project under the old program, awarded by a Bulgarian municipality, where the winner of the contract is 2.5 or 3 times higher than the previous one. I'm not defending the administration either. I am certainly the last person to defend an administration that acts, for example, at some momentum and not at the Community, but the administration cannot apply criteria on moral grounds, and it does not follow, that is, we must have enough precise and clear legislation to warn the transparency, publicity and principle of a public procedure. Once again, we will try and think about this in the course of the problems that we have, and the procedures that we have had as checks by the Commission, and we have at the moment for sanctions, are, for the most part, for the part, the Community measures. It clearly shows where the problem is and we have thought about in the regulations that we should draw up now under the approved new Programme, to try to minimize this risk, that is, not to have such findings in the relevant checks, but to provide a public environment, but without the legislation to give this principle environment, our success would be very small if you rely on the administration to correct the possibilities that exist now in the direction of circumventing it and determining a winner, so we need to work on the basic law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u215	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. The next question is from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova on the support of the Beekeeping sector in 2015. Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u216	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary, colleagues! My question is related to the support of the Beekeepers sector in 2015. The fact is that in 2015 the Beekeepers sector was faced with exceptional difficulties related to the reporting of high mortality in bees as a result of the use of plant protection preparations, and not least because of adverse climatic conditions. My question is related to the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food on this sector, and therefore what directions and guidelines of support will be taken to support the Beekeeping sector, given that there are about 48 000 farmers employed in this sector? For the most part, they are small and medium-sized farms, and support is extremely necessary from the point of view of the state what funds is it able to devote to their normal functioning? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u217	Thank you, Professor. Bachvarova. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u218	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, honourable MPs! The State provides opportunities for financial support to the beekeeping sector through the following national schemes. I'm going to try to get to know all of them in detail in the time I have: National schematics. A scheme to compensate for material damage to fallen agricultural animals and destroyed beehives as a result of natural disasters has been applied for the first time since this year. This assistance has been approved by the European Commission and the support consists of direct aid to farmers. Aid compensations are up to 100% for bee families and destroyed hives. State aid for keeping a family book and determining productivity and genetic qualities. This aid supports the activities of the National Beekeeping Association, which controls over 13 thousand bee families. The State Fund's loan scheme for investment in agriculture. Registered farmers may participate under this scheme for: - the purchase of bee families, equipment, new construction of buildings and the reconstruction of existing buildings and sites related to their cultivation and production of bee products; - for the new programming period has been notified and published on the official page of the European Commission State aid scheme for the construction of commercial premises and the purchase of commercial equipment to farmers making direct deliveries of small quantities of raw materials and food of animal origin. The aid under the scheme for the entire period of application is 6 million. lv. In 2015, support will be provided from the type of...................................................................................... The maximum aid amount for agricultural products in the agricultural production sector is established at 15 thousand. EUR per holding for a period of three consecutive tax years. The Managing Board, on 26 May 2015, or this week, decided to grant State aid to beekeepers registered as farmers. The total amount of the resource is 3 million. Five hundred thousand. BGN, as eligible for support are beekeepers with a minimum of 10 and not more than 200 beehives. The deadline for submission of applications for beekeepers shall be from 10 to 30 June. The conclusion of contracts and the payment of funds will take place in the period 13 July 2015. Separately, the above-mentioned national schemes are subject to the State Fund Fund Loan Scheme...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The granted loans amount to up to 95% of the amount of the eligible grant under Measure B and Measure D of the National Beekeeping Programme, which is financed at the same time by national and European funds. The state also provides opportunities through European support schemes. In 2015, the measures of the National Beekeeping Programme under the measures already implemented by the previous programmes will continue to be implemented, together with the State Fund Fund loan scheme. The approved annual financial resources under the Programme amount to 4 million. 437 thousand. lv. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Perhaps for then I will leave the measures under the Rural Development Programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u219	Yeah. Professor Bachvarova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u220	Dear Minister, I thank you for the reply and for the schemes which are therefore new, operating with the resources that are provided, but the fact is that from those registered or those who are engaged in the sector of beekeeping, a very small part, not more than one tenth of them are those who benefit from the aid. According to data, I am guessing that we will not argue here about the information used by the Ministry of Agriculture for 2014 the number of bee families has increased by 6%, but 7.9% has decreased the production of honey. What is interesting here is that the reasons for this reduced production are the destroyed bees, including as a result of poisoning represent about 10%, but 50% are other reasons. What are these other causes outside of poisoning? Furthermore, when this information is provided, it raises doubts. Why? Because there is still no laboratory in Bulgaria to identify the poisoning of bees, of what they are poisoned, respectively from here on beekeepers cannot seek their rights, including in court. My question to you is along with the schemes, which I would like to stress again that they are something that is important for the sector: when will Regulation No 15, which will regulate the use of plant protection preparations, because everyone knows that this is the main problem that creates problems in the areas where air fertilizing and spraying are used? I would like to tell you that in Dobrich, where I am from, there are the largest number of beekeepers -- 42,000, and almost all are affected in this particular area. Thus, the State will not allocate funds to offset losses if the legislation is previously applied so as to protect farmers and also beekeepers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u221	Thank you, Professor. Bachvarova. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u222	On the specific issue of the regulation, it is worked at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. I hope that by the end of June it will be accepted and after its public consultation with the sector. I would just like to say here a few more data on the Rural Development Programme and the schemes on which beekeepers can apply. Sub-measure 4.1. supplied in agricultural holdings. The eligibility conditions for investment projects submitted by farmers with bee families shall be at least 126 bee families, or that shall be 8000 euro of standard production volume. The measure may purchase any type of assets related to the activity carried out by the applicant, including machinery, equipment and facilities. The amount of financial assistance is 50% of the approved costs, increasing by 10% for projects submitted by young farmers, 10% for the implementation of the territory of disadvantaged areas, and 15% for organic production. Sub-measure 6.1. "Creating farms for young farmers" we plan to open now, in early July. What conditions must they have fulfilled? Registration for the first time as a farmer under the Agricultural Aid Act, the start of livestock farming in a private or non-farming establishment, the management of land for the purpose of producing agricultural and animal production. Applicants may request support no later than 18 months from the date on which the establishment of the holding started. The beneficiaries of the sub-measure receive a grant which is granted in the form of a single premium of 12 thousand. 500 euros. Measure 6.3. Start aid for the development of small holdings. This measure will be opened next year. The aid shall be paid in two instalments at the approval of the application for assistance. EUR, and in the implementation of the objectives of the measure, another EUR 5000. Measure 11. "Biological agriculture." [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The measure will be implemented throughout the country by beneficiaries who have voluntarily adopted the methods of organic farming and are now applying in this period. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And just to say the rates. The support is for a bee family: 35 euros per bee family for bees in transition period, and 25 euros per bee family for those who have passed from the transition period.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u223	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is from the MP Cornelia Ninova on compensation for farmers. Here you are, Mrs. Ninova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u224	Madam Minister, in recent years, many disasters have occurred in the country, infrastructure, homes of people and agricultural production have been destroyed. Usually when something like this happens, all of us politicians run to the event site, put on boots, demonstrate empathy. Except this only happens as long as there's cameras and television. Then we leave, forget about people and leave them at the mercy of fate. What happened two years after Asparuhovo, one year after Miziya and other places where such disasters took place? We understand that European money, when and if it comes at all, will be for roads, for bridges, for infrastructure, but it will not be for restoring people's properties and agricultural production. In the national budget, the money has run out, and there is no mechanism to give people to rebuild homes and property. However, it is within your competence to compensate farmers, so my question to you is this: how much money is there in the budget for disaster compensation and accidents for farmers? How many applications have been submitted, in which areas are they? Will you pay benefits and when this will happen, in what sizes and in whom? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u225	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u226	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Ninova, honourable Members of Parliament! In 2014, due to adverse climatic events equivalent to natural disasters, actions were taken by the Minister of Agriculture and Food to investigate the fallen areas, the constant protocols were issued for 100% falling areas with agricultural crops, and the areas affected by 762 of the construction protocols were 200 thousand. 432 acres. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. in the case of the following crop production cost intensity: fruits and vegetables up to 80%, tobacco up to 80%, other crops up to 80%, feed crops up to 80%, cereals up to 50%, winter For the adverse climatic damage found in December 2014, 89 constant protocols were issued for 100% falling areas or 7300 acres with agricultural crops of 635 thousand. £652. The amount was formed on the basis of the damage found and calculated as the cost of growing crops in non-finished production. Farmers holding constant protocols for 100% falling areas for 2014 submitted applications for support in the territorial structures of the State Fund for Agriculture from 4 to 31 March 2015. The deadline for the payment of the funds was 15 May 2015, the applications submitted under the scheme were 806 pieces, the funds paid were 5 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. In 2015, compensation will be granted for losses on 100% areas of agricultural crops, following an examination of the areas affected by adverse climatic events throughout the year and the issuance of constructive protocols for the identification of damage. The State Fund is also helping farmers with destroyed animals and in March 2015. The support is in the form of help from the type of "de minimis" for the districts of Smolyan and Kardzhali for destroyed agricultural animals of the genus Big and small cattle, beehives, beehives and horses. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. BGN, compensation is up to 100% of the average market prices per kilogram of live weight per species and categories of agricultural animals. According to the State Fund's instructions, the payment of the aid was made within one day of the submission of the application, approved by the Governing Council on 23 March 2015. By the deadline for the payment of the aid "24 April 2015," 276 farmers were assisted by 818 thousand. lv. By decision of the Governing Council of 14 May 2015, the resource under the scheme of 900 thousand. lv. is increased to 925 thousand. lv. to the satisfaction of all the deprived owners. The additional amount under the scheme is for farmers from the region of Haskovo, Plovdiv, Pazardzhik, Kardzhali and Smolyan whose animals or hives were destroyed during heavy snowfalls in March 2015. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The deadline for submission of applications for the use of additional funds is from 18 to 29 May 2015, i.e. until today, and the payment of the funds is until 5 June 2015. By 9 April 2015 was the deadline for submission of applications by farmers who lost animals as a result of natural disasters in 2014. The allocated support resource was 276 thousand. BGN, the amounts paid under the scheme amount to 276 thousand. lv. 17 farmers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u227	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u228	Madam Minister, I have one line-note, let's call it, and one additional question. The line note is that the damages suffered in 2014 were paid only in 2015, with one year's delay. If these farmers did not have their own resources to recover their holdings, they were lost. [[M Minister Desislava Taneva's reply.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u229	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u230	I mean, it's a year late.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u231	Please, no dialogue!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u232	And my additional question is: are you calm about the budget by the end of 2015? Have you spent everything so far on what happened in winter? Do you have resources for the rest of the year? If not, do you intend to insist on increasing the resources of the..................... for these purposes.............................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u233	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. You can answer in the back, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u234	Ms. Ninova, when there were floods in November, early December, there is a procedure to implement the aid.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u235	We're talking about August.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u236	November "December 2014"
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u237	I'm gonna have to ask you without any dialogue. Mrs. Ninova, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u238	You can't talk like that!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u239	How can I not? I can talk to facts. I've been there.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u240	Madam Minister, please don't engage in dialogue with the House. Answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u241	Just to answer it. You can't tell lies here and nonsense a year past.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u242	He was in Miziya in August.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u243	November, December floods, need to drain the water, are being investigated. State aid is for 100% failed areas. Where the relevant applications are submitted, they shall be audited by the services and a decision shall be taken by the Board of Directors of the State Fund of Agriculture. And that happened within four months. There's not a year. It's just that you can't say things that are funny. With regard to the budget of the State Fund.................... to support the sector, of course I cannot be calm and satisfied with the crisis that it has in individual sectors. Of course, I hope so also by Parliament's decision, and with opportunities to have more support. That's normal. Everyone wants it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u244	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We move on to the next question asked by the National Representative Nikolay Veselinov on strengthening control over food imports. Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u245	I'll wait for the minister to finish his conversation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u246	Mr. Andreev, please, there is a question for Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u247	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, my question is the following. In connection with the sanctions against Russia and respectively the contractions that the Russian Federation introduced against Bulgaria precisely in the field of food import, or for us it is the export of food products, we know that the Union "Made in Bulgaria" said that this thing hits the Bulgarian producer significantly. I have also read various data from the Ministry of Agriculture, according to which the amounts are not so fracking, only within 5 to 10 million. But then there were a number of requests for compensation for dairy farmers in view of the low buying-in price. It was so that the European Union, this agricultural production, which failed to implement the member states, began to export more to Bulgaria, which led to deflation, to a fall in prices. For one reason or another, this kills the Bulgarian farmer. It is in this regard, as well as in various smugglings and various VAT drain schemes and thus undercutting the market price, that I ask you my question. Please answer me: what is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food doing in connection with tightening the control of imports of agricultural food products in the country, with a view to really being able to assist a Bulgarian producer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u248	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u249	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Alexandrov, Dear Gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly! Thanks for asking. Yes, we have to say very clearly that the consequences of the imposed Russian embargo as countermeasures against food products from the Community are seriously affecting farmers in Bulgaria, especially the dairy sector, when this moment coincided with the dropping of milk quotas from April 1st, which was a planned act, agreed much earlier. However, given the changes in the Community market as a result of the Russian embargo, this has had a very negative impact on the prices in Bulgaria. It was no accident that we decided this week to support the state aid. This was also the only possible means of a total of 26 million for sheep and dairy cows given the prices. With regard to control, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, in accordance with the Customs Agency and the National Revenue Agency, as you know, there is a good assessment of their activities, including from our producers of Bulgarian food products for control. There is a system developed to control risk products, dairy products are part of them, which aims to prevent imports of agricultural produce, including milk, meat, fruit and vegetables in the country for which the necessary duties and taxes are not paid. For the third quarter of 2014, 360 million. lv. there is more revenue revenue from this fiscal risk in intra-Community trade than the same period of the previous year. They are also the result of carrying out and checking within the framework of the ordinance for carrying out fiscal control over the movement of goods with high fiscal risk on the territory of the country and the requirements for fiscal control posts. From the moment of entry into force of the Regulation, the enhanced control shall be carried out by all competent institutions, including officials of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. The State's actions are in the direction of protection against unfair competition, which also benefits the domestic production of agricultural production, as unfair competition is mainly linked to the non-payment of VAT in goods subject to intra-Community trade. The fiscal control over the movement of goods at high fiscal risk is a set of actions of revenue authorities and aims to prevent tax evasion and tax fraud, which are carried out in relation to the movement of goods in Bulgaria. All goods with high fiscal risk shall be subject to control regardless of the place of destination or unloading of the goods which may be in the territory of another Member State of the European Union or the territory of a third country. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food provides for legislative measures which will aim to limit illegal imports and intra-Community trade in food. The amendments will provide for joint action [[the President signals that the speaking time has expired]] between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and other competent institutions in this area in order to prevent regulated imports, as well as legislative proposals aimed at improving the traceability of raw materials and foodstuffs in their import and intra-Community trade. I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u250	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I will slightly synthesize all this dry matter with reading. That is, you are working to prevent fraud because it is undercutting the price of production. Otherwise, people won't know exactly what they're doing. You're preparing legislative changes. That's good, we're gonna follow this whole thing as a process. I guess we'll probably have the next session such a question for you, so we can see what real effects this will lead to. That's from a price point of view. The other point of view that I could not hear is concern, the support of the producers themselves inside Bulgaria, because, excuse me, but Russia's countermeasures were due to the sanctions the European Union imposed on which we are a member. And as I recall, when you requested compensation, they refused.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u252	We don't have an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u253	Or there's no answer yet, okay, which is kind of a wait. We will again come to this hypothesis for one year's delay in agricultural production.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u254	Please, no dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u255	Since last year it has been approximately half a year and continues to grow. It is only since the beginning of the year that we have been six months on these sanctions. However, this thing still affects the Bulgarian business. I haven't been able to figure out how business feels about the positive work of...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u256	The NRA.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u257	At the NRA because I found out about the Customs Agency about BABBH and I was a little surprised about the last things. Okay. In view of this, when do you eventually, if you have such information, expect an answer from the European Union to compensate us? And what further measures will be taken inside the country to support domestic production? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u258	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u259	Dear Mr. Alexandrov, we are talking about a positive assessment from the industry of the actions of the National Revenue Agency, which, in digital terms, as revenue collection, shows the effectiveness of the work, given enough money collected in the budget. On the basis of the five-month period, the two-billion yen. The 14 million were announced by the Finance Minister. Some of them are just VAT products, such as meat, milk and others. It's public information that came out. With regard to the measures. The European Union has implemented compensation measures under the Russian embargo. We have to be objective, they were for dry milk, for cow oil and for cow cheese, this scheme has been terminated, as well as for fruit and vegetables. In Bulgaria, however, dry milk was not produced and these measures in no way affected the Bulgarian producer and the Bulgarian market. In this situation since December, we, as a country, at the first Council of Ministers we had, have asked for additional support, including last week, by letter to the Commissioner, a package of European funds. This was given to three countries of the European Union, which produce 70%, whose milk production is directed to the Russian market. In order to compensate for the losses of Bulgarian milk and dairy producers, of course, we expect a response Romania joined our position. In fact, some of the demands are common to both our countries. The measures we take in Bulgaria, beyond those we hope to receive from the Community, are: As I said, a decision of the Management Board of the State Fund...................... for dairy cows.............................................................................. lv. resource, 100 million. lv. of a cow, a milky direction to now support in connection with the crisis. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The new changes: in the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land they are on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and are agreed; changes in Regulation No 4 of 15 July 2014 which we are preparing for the specific requirements for the production of raw materials and food of animal origin...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u260	Madam Minister, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u261	And an amendment to three other regulations that would give better conditions to the Bulgarian manufacturer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u262	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We are going to ask the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Dora Yankova about the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for support of dairy cattle farming. Mrs. Yankova, order to develop your inquiry within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u263	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Our question is about the crisis in dairy cattle farming. It is known that since 1 April 2015, the 30-year milk quota era has ended. Some of the old member states have long worked to relax the production brake, and for other countries, such as ours and Romania, there is no doubt the danger of shrinking production, of increasing imports. In fact, you are informed that we are currently in the dynamics of daily reductions in buying-in prices. There are places where they are up to 35-40-50, even up to 60 cm. In parallel, many people are desperate, not only from my constituency, in the country on a day of two, three cows from a village are leaving. Now you are being tested, that is to say, we will support you if you make a proposal, the Bulgarian state. In both years of 2015 and 2016, will these people feel that the state is behind them? Undoubtedly, they have made gaps in preparing and restructuring in this period because this fall of the end of quotas was expected. There are a few questions they're asking me and I can't answer. In Germany, one farmer receives about 1000 euros per subsidy, in Bulgaria - 400 BGN. In Romania, 8 eurocents per litre of milk! Here the questions are before you: will the Bulgarian state be able to offer a policy where there is a subsidy per litre of milk? Shall we lend a hand to the farmers, to the cattlemen, to save them? Now, either the end is gonna hit, or it's gonna drop to the minimum, or we're gonna go ahead under your leadership and under the leadership of the government.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u264	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer to the question you have a limit of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u265	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Bachvarova and Mrs. Yankova, honourable MPs! Indeed, the situation on the milk market, both in Bulgaria and throughout the European Union, has started to deteriorate since September 2014 with main reasons the embargo imposed by Russia on dairy products from the European Union and the sharp reduction of requests for the purchase of milk and dairy products by China. Since January 2015, the buying-in prices of cow's milk in Bulgaria have reached their lowest levels in the last 5 years and the price for March 2015 is 17% lower than one year earlier, or 30.6 euro/100 kg. The price for the month of April 2015, the average by statistics, is even lower, EUR 28,49 per 100 kg, and the forecast for May is a new decline of EUR 27,24 per 100 kg. In this regard, I assure you that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is seeking all possible measures under the powers of national and European law to provide support for the sector with both national and European funds and through the measures taken to seek additional support through the Community. The instrument with which the Ministry of Agriculture and Food reacts for immediate intervention is to provide assistance of the type As a result, by a decision of the Management Board of the State Fund........... from 27 April to 15 May 2015 dairy farmers had the opportunity to submit applications for support. In the case of dairy cows and buffaloes, the total heading resource, respectively the individual rate, was determined after completion of the reception. A total of about 11,000 were submitted. applications by setting an individual rate for milk cow/bivolt at a meeting of the Governing Council of the Fund at 100 BGN. In order to support livestock farmers and dairy farmers, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has initiated amendments to the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land. The project is published on the website of the Ministry for Public Discussion, and the changes are related to the provision of permanent grassland only to farmers holding pasture animals and by regulation. Those who do not have one will either be obliged to supply pasture animals or their contracts will be terminated. If the mayor refuses to carry out this action, as we are witnessing numerous violations by local authorities, these contracts will not be considered a legal basis and can be declared. The Regulation on labelling and presentation requirements for food is also being amended and the Bulgarian side will benefit from the possibility of adopting a national measure under Regulation No 1169 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the provision of food information to consumers. The amendment will introduce a voluntary requirement on the label of agricultural products and foodstuffs produced on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria from at least 75% raw materials obtained on the territory of the country, to put an inscription: Another measure aimed at supporting dairy farming is the restart of the scheme "School milk" for kindergartens and schools during the 2015/2016 school year, but already with a serious national contribution to its financing. The scheme has been applied in our country for four years now, but due to the low level of support from the European Union, the interest in the scheme has been negligible. We have foreseen a restart of the scheme with national funds of 7 million. lv. European Union funds partly covering the costs of the products provided are 834 thousand. lv. The total budget for the scheme is 8 million. lv. In this way, the planned budget under the scheme will be implemented 2 million. 400,000. Literature of fresh milk or 2 million kg of yogurt, or 309 thousand. kg of cheese or cheese. Under national and European funding, the total amount paid for the 2014 campaign in the dairy livestock sector amounts to 102 million. lv. Support shall be carried out under the following schemes: - Scheme of national payments for non-production bovine animals; - Linked support scheme for dairy cows; - Connected support scheme for dairy cows and/or meat cows under selective control. The coupled support scheme for dairy cows is covered by the territory of the whole country, thus not excluding farmers on the basis of the location of their holdings. As additional support from 2015, the Member States of the European Union, which will continue to apply as a basic area support scheme, Bulgaria has notified its intention to apply the single area payment scheme by 2020 and will take advantage of the possibility to provide transitional national aid to the sectors which have been supported, including transitional national aid to bovine animals. Here I just want to add to your question for help in a liter of milk. This is only possible as national transitional aid, whose notification period was at the end of 2013, so we can only continue to apply this national transitional aid to bovine animals on this reference date of 2009, and we, together with the Advisory Council on livestock, have decided and made a change as a right to support, will have only those farmers who have kept at least 70% of their herds so as not to go so as not to run out funds to people who no longer have, and this, on the other hand, from the savings budget, will lead to an increase in the rate of national transitional aid. But I'm out of time, so I'm gonna keep...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u266	Yeah, time's up. Even with one request to you, please note that your collaborators do not write such long answers because they put you in an awkward position to stop thinking in the middle of the sentence. Thank you. Come in for two supplementary questions, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, you have pointed out a number of measures, which are respectively known to the Bulgarian public, to the livestock farmers, what you will do in the support sector. However, such a crisis in Bulgarian dairy farming was not there, and that is why my question is: do you have a comprehensive strategy how, how will you deal with this crisis? I have been monitoring prices since 1993. Such a breakdown in one month, I dare say, in prices: 30 "40" 50% for small farms, 15 cc. liters, there wasn't. My question is: how do you see what measures you will take, but in their entirety, so that the sector does not die, as the trends are currently going? And my second question, which is important to me. Once again, we returned to the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. Extreme change. For at least two years, we in our parliamentary group have been trying to prove that an analysis of the contracts that have been concluded for meadows and pastures should be carried out and this analysis should really sift out those who have no connection with livestock but use European funds, be eliminated and provide the pastures to actual livestock farmers. I have seen in the media that this is your proposal to amend the Law, which you therefore say has been published. In 2009, virtual animals continued, 70%, if herds existed, said they would then receive national payments in number of animals. Is this going to happen in 2015, and on what grounds is my question?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u268	Thank you, Professor. Bachvarova. Here you are, Madam Secretary. Answer from the microphone. You have three minutes to answer the two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u269	Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, regarding national transitional assistance, I answered in my exposé. The change on the basis of which this national transitional aid for a head animal for dairy cattle will be applied will be made as a result of the change in the regulation where, as a criterion that has been changed, we have set it as a criterion so that the money goes to the real producers and this change has already been made and applications in the course of this campaign are made according to the changed conditions. According to the law on ownership and use of agricultural land, yes, the law is uploaded to the site. The two-week discussion is ongoing under the Law on Legislative Acts as a procedure for the adoption of a law, but we have no way to say: we will do an analysis. The change is in another aspect of the continuation of the month we made in February, which I think you also supported, for which, of course, thank you. It says so if, by 2 February, of course, the date is the subject of a parliamentary debate again, we have considered that this is the best, you do not have the defined number of animals of a contract that is concluded by then the law in force, you see and at the moment what problems with the local authorities there are with the application of the new rules, or you have a number of animals by the norm, according to the employed and used public-owned municipal or state-owned fund, or you have no right to declare them for assistance, which means that this fund, if the mayor terminates the contract, would be good, we have offered only one sanction, that the state as a state can't decide, instead of the local authority, simply cannot do so, this as a resource should go to the keepers, i.e.e. the support which is carried out by 2014 data on the basis of the constantly requested areas, they are from 2014, around 175 million. lv. is the subsidy, with a little over 60 million being paid to users of pastures, meres and meadows for which there are no animals. With the change that we have proposed, in practice, in the next campaign will either acquire animals from these people, or this fund will be released for livestock farmers. With regard to the crisis, yes, you are right. I said it and in statistics the price reduction trend starts from February 2014. It is, of course, planned. We are proposing this package of measures to overcome the crisis. Unfortunately, indeed, the Russian embargo, in my opinion, is a very aggravating situation on the whole Community and country market, and we are looking for third markets to overcome the crisis. What we can do right now and we are doing it are the funds we have given under the De Minimis and the changes in the legislation we have made and are doing at the moment to support the Bulgarian production.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u270	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Who will express their attitude to the answer? Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u271	Thank you. Dear Minister, my opinion is that we need measures that are outside the standard you have pointed out. And for example: in 2008 Bulgarian livestock was also placed in a crisis situation and the reason were high feed prices as a result of adverse climatic conditions. At that time, measures were taken to pay a liter of milk, which was set at a minimum of 47 million. lv. You can make the comparison that we now have twice the resource, which will immediately enter the turnover and help the sector. And last but not least, all these exercises related to who the municipalities would give the meadows and pastures was decided without a doubt by the Minister's order, which said: European subsidies for meadows and pastures are prohibited to farmers who do not own establishments. [[M Minister Taneva's lines.]] You have no way of knowing what has been applied and what has not been applied. There are documents, and I therefore recommend that you prepare yourself before deciding in this way to counter.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u272	Please, Professor. Bachvarova! Don't engage in a direct dialogue!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u273	For dairy cattle, we have a syn language, we have a embargo, we have a quota dropout. As a result, we will not have dairy cattle as we go. Apart from that, the commitment of the other ministries must be very serious, because right now the information I have is that raw milk is coming from Romania, which costs BGN 0.40. per litre, in concentrate from Hungary and Poland per liter. Whatever aid is given in such a market situation, it is not possible for Bulgarian livestock farmers to do what is necessary to maintain the number of animals they currently have. Therefore, my appeal is to make sure that the other institutions and the uncontrolled imports stop. And not 70% to be Bulgarian raw material. In order to be Bulgarian cheese must be 100% Bulgarian milk, which is produced on the territory of Bulgaria and not 70.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-29.u274	Thank you. That concludes today's parliamentary control. The time was up to 2:14 p.m. It's 2:19 p.m. We're five minutes late. I thank Minister Taneva for her participation in today's parliamentary control. The next regular meeting of the Forty-third National Assembly is on Wednesday, 3 June 2015, 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
