ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. One message at the beginning. On 22 April 2015 received and distributed to the MPs A general draft of the bills amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping adopted on the first vote on 22 April 2015. The project was drawn up by the Transport, Information Technology and Communications Committee on the grounds of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote, which shall be until 29 April 2015 inclusive. According to yesterday's Programme for the Work of the National Assembly, a second vote on the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Law on Political Parties with importers Valery Simeonov and a group of MPs is forthcoming as a point for Thursday. Procedure Mr. Rumen Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal as the first item on tomorrow to examine the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. Madam President, please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u3	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Rumen Hristov's proposal on Friday as the first item to discuss in the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the law on ownership and use of agricultural land. [[Replys from "Attacka."]] He's got 24 hours. He was seen on the Commission yesterday. The report is presented, so the hours are respected. [[(Reply, noise and shouts ……]] We vote. Vote 157 MPs: 126, against 17, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Procedure Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u4	Madam President, I am making a procedural proposal tomorrow, point two, to be the Financial Markets and Financial Instruments Act. [[Heckling]] Yesterday, when you transferred this item seventh into nothingness, we had the same arguments by the end of April we made it impossible for public companies to do their job and to exist. Therefore, Madam President, since we cannot look at this Law for three weeks, I ask you very much to put to the vote my procedural proposal for point two tomorrow and to conclude the work under the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u5	A reverse opinion? Here you go, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! Tomorrow April 24th is the Day of Worship for Armenian martyrs who died in the genocide of a million and a half people. Yesterday, the National Assembly voted on item one of the agenda and on the draft decision on genocide. Explain to me, dear ruling parties, why are you replacing the item on the agenda? You are scandalously replacing it because you know very well that tomorrow at an international level in Yerevan are gathering the heads of the European countries and Mrs Merkel is there. You are now pretending to be our onions ate, nor onion smelled and replaced the item on the agenda. Explain why you're doing this and isn't it scandalous?! Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u7	I put to the vote Mrs. Stoyanova's proposal for a second vote on the relevant bill. Vote 168 MPs: 136 against 27, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. [[National Representative Stanislav Stanilov wants the floor for a negative vote.]] There is no negative vote on procedural votes, only essentially in debates. Re-vote, please come in for a re-vote, prof. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u8	It has happened before in similar problems for the government to turn away from their word and from their votes. I don't know who's been calling who or where to lower that act. I want to tell you that this is a great disgrace and you don't know what you're going through! Please, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u9	It's a re-vote. Vote 168 MPs: 132, against 27, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLAINTING THE LAW FOR POLITICAL PARTIES. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Law on Political Parties, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! Report on the Draft Law for Supplement to the Law on Political Parties, No 554-01-32, submitted by Valeri Simeonov Simeonov and a group of MPs on 13 February 2015. The law on political parties and the law on political parties. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u11	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Vote 138 MPs: 127, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u12	Paragraph 1? a proposal from Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the National Representative Petar Slavov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article The name or abbreviation of a coalition registered in the Central Election Commission for participation in the last elections for MPs or the name of an existing parliamentary group shall not be repeated or added to them in words, letters, digits, numbers or other signs. This prohibition shall not apply in the event of an agreement in writing with a notary endorsement of the signatures of the persons representing the coalition or the management of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u13	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 1. They voted 133 MPs: 114, against 1, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u14	Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a name "Transitional provision" with § 2. "Transitional provision' § 2. The order of Art. 14, para. 3 shall also apply to those initiated until the entry into force of this Law proceedings for registration of political parties.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u15	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 2 for the creation of the name "Transitional provision" and the content of § 2. 135 MPs voted: 125, against 2, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR ENERGY EFFICIENCY On the day yesterday we reached art. 17. Mr. Dobrev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! Article 18 supposed by the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Alexander Nenkov, Valentin Nikolov, Dimitar Zhelev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 18: Art. 18. (1) The methodologies for the determination of the national energy efficiency target, the definition of the overall cumulative objective, the introduction of a scheme of energy savings obligations and the allocation of individual energy savings targets between the debtors under art. 14, para. 4 shall be determined by a decree of the Council of Ministers. (2) The eligible measures for energy savings in final consumption, the ways of demonstrating the energy savings achieved, the requirements of the methodologies for their assessment and the ways of confirming them shall be determined by a decree of the Minister of Energy. (3) Eligible measures to increase energy efficiency in the production, transport and/or distribution of energy, the terms and conditions for assessing the state, as well as the arrangements for carrying out an assessment of the energy savings realised as a result of these measures shall be determined by a regulation of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u17	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 18 in its version of the Commission report. They voted 119 MPs: 117, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u18	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 19: Art. 19. (1) The list of debtors under art. 14, para. 4 and their individual energy savings targets are adopted by the Council of Ministers together with the national energy efficiency action plans. (2) The update of the list of debtors under art. 14, para. 4 and their individual energy savings targets shall be carried out with annual reports on the implementation of national energy efficiency action plans. (3) The Agency shall maintain on its website information on the ongoing implementation of the individual energy savings targets.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u19	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 19. Vote 105 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u20	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 20: Art. 20. In fulfilling the individual energy savings targets, the debtors under art. 14, para. 4 are required to: implement measures to increase energy efficiency and activities related to the implementation of those measures; refrain from any action that may impede the demand, supply and development of energy-efficient services and the implementation of other activities and measures to increase energy efficiency, including not to hinder competitors in the market or allow abuse of a dominant position.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u21	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 20. They voted 111 MPs: 108, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u22	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 21: Art. 21. In fulfilling the individual energy savings targets, the debtors under art. 14, para. 4 may: 1. offer energy efficient services at competitive prices through an energy efficient service provider, and/or 2. make contributions to the Energy Efficiency Fund and renewable sources (s) or other financial intermediaries (s) for financing of energy efficiency activities and measures in the amount of investments necessary to implement measures to achieve their individual objectives, determined according to the methodology under art. 7, para. 1, t. 11, and/or 3. conclude agreements with energy efficient service providers or other non-debted parties to transfer energy savings by transferring energy savings certificates under art. 75, para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u23	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 21. Voted 103 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u24	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u25	We vote. Vote 100 MPs: 98 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u26	Under art. 23 there is a proposal from the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Alexander Nenkov, Valentin Nikolov and Dimitar Zhelev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 23: Art. 23. (1) In order to support the implementation of the national energy efficiency target in all heated and/or cooled buildings, state ownership used by the public administration shall be taken every year to improve the energy performance of at least 5 percent of the total developed area. (2) The purpose under para. 1 is calculated on the basis of the built-up area of the buildings with a built-up area of more than 500 sq. M, and from 9 July 2015 Over 250 sq. m, which on 1 January of the relevant year do not meet the minimum energy performance requirements laid down by the ordinance under art. 31, para. 4. (3) The requirements of para. 1 shall not apply to: 1.Building cultural values included in the scope of the Law cultural heritage in so far as the implementation of certain minimum energy performance requirements lead to violation of architectural and/or artistic characteristics of the building; 2. buildings owned by the armed forces or by the administration serving for the purpose of national defence, except military dormitories or office buildings for employees of armed forces and other servants employed by national authorities Defense. (4) For the buildings under para. 1 in the order of their priority ranking in the list under art. 27, para. 1, t. 4 measures shall be applied to improve their energy performance. (5) In achieving an improvement in the energy performance of more than 5 percent of the total built-up area of heated and/or cooled buildings, State property used by the public administration may be transferred to each of the previous three or to each of the following three years in a given year.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u27	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 23. Vote 95 MPs: for 93, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u28	Section III "National Strategy, National Plans and Programs." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u29	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of Section III. Vote 101 MPs: for 98, no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u30	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 24: Art. 24. The National Energy Efficiency Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria defines: the priorities of state policy in the field of energy efficiency; the instruments for the implementation of the national objective under art. 13, para. 2, including mechanisms, incentives and institutional, financial and legal framework for the elimination of existing market barriers and disadvantages that hinder efficiency in energy production, transmission, distribution and consumption; the mechanisms for stimulating the development and promotion of the energy efficient services market; the tools to promote changes in the behaviour of energy consumers by informing about the benefits of the energy efficiency survey, the implementation of energy efficiency measures and the introduction of smart measurement systems.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u31	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 24. 90 MPs voted: 88, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. REPORTER DELIAN ADEV: The Commission generally supports the text of the importer for art. 25 and offers the following editing: Art. 25. (1) National Energy Efficiency Action Plans shall be developed according to a model adopted by the European Commission. (2) The plans shall contain measures to improve energy efficiency and expected or achieved energy savings, including measures in the transmission and distribution of energy, as well as in the final consumption of energy, with a view to achieving the national energy efficiency target established by the national energy efficiency strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) The plans may include measures for priority implementation in energy poor households or social housing buildings. (4) Plans shall be developed for a period of three years.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u32	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 25. Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u33	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 26 and offers the following editing: Art. 26. The national plan for near-zero-energy buildings shall contain: 1. the national definition and technical indicators for buildings with close to zero energy consumption, reflecting the national conditions; 2. the national targets for increasing the number of buildings with close to zero energy consumption depending on the classification of the types of buildings according to the ordinance under art. 31, para. 4; 3. policies and mechanisms, including financial to promote the construction of near-zero-energy buildings; 4. the period of action of the plan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u34	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 26. Vote 91 MPs: 88, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u35	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 27 and offers the following editing: Art. 27. (1) The national plan for improving the energy performance of heated and/or cooled buildings shall contain: 1. review of the national building fund; 2. identification of cost-effective approaches for improving the energy performance of buildings in line with the type of buildings and the climate area; 3. policies and measures to promote an economically efficient fundamental improvement of the energy performance of buildings, including phased implementation; 4. a list of buildings which, on 1 January of the relevant year, do not meet the minimum requirements for energy performance as defined by the ordinance under art. 31, para. 4, ranked priority, with the highest priority are buildings with the worst energy performance compared to minimum energy performance requirements; 5. the period of action of the plan. (2) The plan under para. 1 shall be made available to the European Commission together with the national energy efficiency action plans.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u36	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 27. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u37	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 28 and offers the following editing: Art. 28. (1) The National Long-term Investment Promotion Programme for the Implementation of Measures to Improve the Energy Characteristics of Public and Private National Housing and Commercial Buildings shall contain: 1. review of the national building fund based on statistical samples; 2. identifying cost-effective approaches to improving the energy performance of buildings, tailored to the type of buildings and the climate area; 3. policies and measures to promote an economically efficient fundamental improvement of the energy performance of buildings, including phased implementation; 4. establishing a financial framework for directing investment decisions of investors, the construction industry and financial intermediaries; 5. forecast for the expected energy saving. (2) The program under para. 1 shall be presented to the European Commission together with the national energy efficiency action plans.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u38	Statements? I won't. We vote, fellow Members. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u39	"Chapter 3 " Activities and measures to increase energy efficiency and provide energy efficient services. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u40	Statements? I won't. We vote! Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u41	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 29 and offers the following editing: Art. 29. The activities to increase energy efficiency are: 1. reducing energy costs in the production, transport and distribution of energy as well as in the final consumption of energy; 2. training and acquiring a qualification in the field of energy efficiency of persons providing energy efficient services; 3. an assessment of the conformity of investment projects of buildings with regard to energy efficiency requirements; 4. testing and certification of energy efficiency of buildings; 5. verification of energy efficiency of heating installations with boilers and air conditioning in buildings; 6. an energy efficiency survey for enterprises, industrial systems and external artificial lighting systems; 7. energy efficiency management; 8. provision of energy efficient services; 9. raising the awareness of households.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u42	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 29. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u43	Under art. 30 has a proposal from the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Alexander Nenkov, Valentin Nikolov, Dimitar Zhelev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 30: Art. 30. (1) Measures to increase energy efficiency are actions which lead to a verifiable, measurable or measurable increase in energy efficiency, in the final energy consumption, as well as in the production, transmission and distribution of energy. (2) The eligible measures under para. 1 shall be determined by the regulations referred to in Article 1. 18, para. 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u44	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 30. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u45	Section II Engineering and certification of buildings The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u46	Statements? I won't. We vote. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u47	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 31: Art. 31. (1) Any investment project for the construction of a new building, reconstruction, major renovation, major renovation, which covers more than 25 percent of the area of the external buildings and elements of the building or the reconstruction of an existing building that alters the energy performance of the building shall comply with the energy efficiency requirements laid down in this Law and in the Law on Construction of the territory. (2) Investment projects for new buildings under para. 1 shall comply with the technical, environmental and economic feasibility of alternative highly efficient installations and systems for the use of: 1. decentralised systems for the production and consumption of energy from renewable sources; 2. installations for cogeneration of electricity and heat; 3. installations for central or local heating and cooling, as well as those which fully or partially use renewable energy; 4. Heaters. (3) Energy consumption indicators and energy performance of buildings and energy scale parameters for different categories of buildings shall be determined by a decree issued by the Minister of Energy and the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. (4) The minimum energy performance requirements of buildings or parts thereof with a view to achieving optimal cost levels, technical requirements and energy efficiency indicators, as well as the method/standards for determining annual energy consumption in buildings, including buildings with close to zero energy consumption, shall be determined by a decree of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. (5) The energy performance requirements shall be subject to mandatory periodic verification once every 5 years and shall, if necessary, be updated to reflect technological developments in the building sector.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u48	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 31. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u49	Under art. 32 there is a proposal from the MPs Kancho Filipov, Petar Petrov, Rosen Petrov, Martin Ivanov, Georgi Nedev and Krasimira Kovachka. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2 and does not support it by t. 1. Unsupported t. 1 states: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32, para. 2 is added after the words the volume is greater than 20 per cent and the volume is added to the words the volume is greater than 20 per cent. The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of art. 32: Art. 32 (1) The energy performance of a new building before putting into service shall be certified by a certificate of design energy performance. (2) When separate parts in a new building have different use and are separated as heat zones and each of the areas has an air-conditioned volume of less than 90 per cent of the total air-conditioned volume of the building, certificate under para. 1 is issued separately for each area on a scale corresponding to the purpose in the area concerned. (3) If there is a heat area with an air-conditioned volume equal to or greater than 90 per cent of the total air-conditioned volume of the building, the certificate under para. 1 shall be issued for the whole building in accordance with the scale for the category of buildings to which this area belongs. (4) The certificate under para. 1 is issued on the basis of the energy performance of the building of the investment project of the building (executive documentation) by persons of: 1. Art. 43, para. 1; 2. Art. 43, para. 2 only for 5th category buildings according to art. 137, para. 1, t. 5 of the Law on Construction of the Area, with exclusion of public service buildings of this category. (5) The provision of para. 1 shall not apply to: 1. the prayer homes of the legally registered religions in the country; 2. temporary buildings with planned time to use up to two years; 3. the economic buildings of farmers used for agricultural activity; 4. production buildings and parts of production buildings; 5. residential buildings which are used as intended up to 4 months per year or as an alternative for a limited period of time per year and have an expected energy consumption of less than 25 per cent of the expected use per year; 6. buildings with built-up area up to 50 sq. m.s.....................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u50	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the non-voting part of the proposal of the MPs Kancho Filipov and the group, and that is by virtue of this. 1 of the proposal. We are voting on the part of the proposal not supported by the Commission. The proposal is voted on, which is not supported. They voted 102 MPs: 18, against 68, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission's version of art. 32. Vote 89 MPs: for 86, against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u51	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 33: Art. 33. (1) The contracting entity within the meaning of art. 161, para. 1 of the Construction Act in the territory of a new building is required to acquire a certificate of design energy performance of the building before it is put into service. (2) Owners of individual buildings in a building shall be entitled to receive a copy of the original certificate of design energy performance of the building. The original of the certificate shall be kept by a person authorised by the owners.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u52	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 33. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u53	Proposal by the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Alexander Nenkov, Valentin Nikolov, Dimitar Zhelev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 34: Art. 34. (1) When selling a new building in its entirety, the seller shall provide the buyer with the original of the certificate of design energy performance. (2) When selling individual sites in a new building, the seller shall provide the buyer with a copy of the certificate of design energy performance of the building. (3) The landlord shall provide the tenant with a copy of the certificate of design energy performance of the building when renting a new building or individual sites. (4) Where a new building for which a certificate of design energy performance has been issued or a stand-alone site is declared for sale or rent, the specific annual cost of primary energy shall be indicated in all notices.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u54	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u55	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposals that made colleagues Dobrev, Nenkov, Nikolov and Zhelev, I understand that they were made in terms of lightening small buildings, no administrative burden and so on, but this does not achieve anything, because it is not about buildings which do not have such a certificate at all, but about buildings to which a certificate has already been issued. In this certificate, the only indicator that enables the building to be assessed whether it enters category A to category D is the indicator .................................................... In this regard, I think that the supplement that colleagues have made is unnecessary and there is no point in putting it in, because even when we buy an iron, we look at what class of energy efficiency it enters, and when we rent a building or when we buy an apartment in it and that indicator is not there, we are far from that truth. I propose to my colleagues to withdraw this proposal, if possible procedurally, or to the House, to vote on the proposal under art. 34 by importer, not by reference to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u56	Since editorial proposals are made on the Commission's texts, you propose this supplement...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u57	I propose in art. 34, para. 4 drop the expression or another indicator of the energy performance of the building.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u58	Which means you're partial to the words "kilovate" / "hours"...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u59	"Kilovat/hours" yes, they are in the offer by importer. One more time for the record and for the transcript. I propose in this regard also those arguments that I have said and once again repeat, to make it clear what category of energy efficiency, what class a person buys in a new building, notice, it is about a new building, and not something else to express the expression or another indicator of the energy performance of the building. 34, para. 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u60	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u61	Mr. Ermenkov, I understand your editorial proposal. The aim of me and my colleagues was to relieve, if possible, households in cases where single family or multifamily residential buildings up to 250 kilowatts to conduct an audit and to have a specific annual primary energy consumption, for information in kilowatt/hours per square. 3 feet. But I can see the meaning of what you're saying. Actually, when it comes to buildings up to 50 square meters. When it comes to new buildings, it only concerns those up to 50 sq. m not even 250, because only those up to 50 square meters. m, or who enjoy a few months up to four months a year, or consume up to 25% of annual consumption, only they have to design, general heating and energy audits. I see logic, but I'm not sure, and I'm hoping you'll pick up the duplicate to explain if this really will not affect some additional administrative burden on households, even if we're just talking about those under 50 kilos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u62	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u63	Mr. Dobrev, it will not in any way affect, because it is a text that is organically related to a new building in its entirety when there is already a certificate for design energy performance and these indicators are already mentioned in this certificate as kilowatt/hour per square. There's nothing new to do. Only in the advert will be required for this indicator so that the person who will buy the apartment, or will rent it, will see in the advert itself that this building according to the classification of the apartment / hour per square. m is in energy efficiency from A to D. Nothing more. There are neither additional investigations, nor nothing from the building's certificate is taken and placed inside for better information. Otherwise we risk confusing people who buy apartments and entering something that is not clear exactly what the other indicator will be, which will be placed for the energy performance........ can be on the walls, can be on the windows................................ Do you understand me? Therefore, nothing new is being done, but we are just putting something that has already been established in the advert so that people can have good, clear, impartial information. So there is no additional burden on households or other buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u64	Now I expect in the manner of conduct, Mr. Dobrev, to navigate the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u65	Yes, in the manner of conduct, Madam President. The colleague Ermenkov made a procedural proposal, which in para. 4 of art. 34 at the end of the sentence, the words "or another indicator of the energy performance of the building indicated in the certificate" shall be dropped. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] Yeah, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u66	Yeah, that's clear. We've recorded it, but you accept Mr. Ermenkov's offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u67	...to drop out as a procedure. Please put this procedural proposal to the vote. I think it's resonant.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u68	Thank you. I'll follow your recommendation. Are there any other MPs who would like to speak? No. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Tasco Ermenkov, who proposed in art. 34, para. 4 drop the text, back to front a third row, or another indicator of the energy performance of the building. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 86 MPs: 84, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We are voting for the full version of art. 34 together with the proposal we adopted just now for the editing of para. 4. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u69	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 36.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u70	Anblock, we vote both terms. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u71	Article 37. Proposal from the MPs Kancho Filipov, Petar Petrov, Rosen Petrov, Martin Ivanov, Georgi Nedev, Krasimira Kovachka. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 37: Art. 37. (1) The certification of energy efficiency of buildings in operation and parts of buildings in operation shall be designed to verify the current state of energy consumption in buildings, energy performance and their compliance with the scale of the energy classes defined by the ordinance under art. 31, para. 3. (2) The energy efficiency certification of buildings in operation and parts of buildings in operation shall be carried out on the basis of an energy efficiency survey. (3) Where separate parts of a building in operation have different uses and are separated as heat zones and each of the areas has an air-conditioned volume less than 90 per cent of the total air-conditioned volume of the building, certificate under art. 36, para. 3 shall be issued separately for each area on a scale corresponding to the purpose of the area concerned. (4) In the presence of a heat area with an air-conditioned volume equal to or greater than 90 per cent of the total air-conditioned volume of the building, the certificate under art. 36, para. 3 is issued for the whole building in accordance with the scale for the category of buildings to which this area belongs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u72	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 37, colleagues. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u73	Article 38. Proposal by the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Alexander Neykov, Valentin Nikolov. Dimitar Zhelev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Kancho Filipov, Petar Petrov, Rosen Petrov, Martin Ivanov, Georgi Nedev, Krasimira Kovachka. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 38: Art. 38. (1) Each building in operation may be audited and certified, except: the prayer homes of legally registered religions in the country; temporary buildings with scheduled use time of up to two years; the business buildings of farmers used for agricultural activities; production buildings and parts of manufacturing buildings; residential buildings which are used as intended up to 4 months per year or as an alternative for a limited period of time per year and have an expected energy consumption of less than 25 per cent of the estimated year-round use; buildings with built-up area up to 50 sq. m. (2) Buildings of cultural values covered by the Cultural Heritage Act may be examined for energy efficiency and certified insofar as the fulfilment of certain minimum energy performance requirements does not result in a violation of the architectural and/or artistic characteristics of the building. (3) All buildings for public service in operation with a built-up area over 500 sq. M, and from 9 July 2015 With an area of more than 250 sq. M, shall be subject to mandatory audit and certification, except for buildings under para. 2. (4) The owners of buildings under para. 3 shall comply with the measures to achieve the minimum required energy consumption class prescribed by the first audit within three years of the date of acceptance of the results of the audit. (5) The owners of buildings for public service with a built-up area over 500 sq. M, and from 9 July 2015 With an area of more than 250 sq. m, for which a certificate of energy performance is issued, are obliged to place the certificate in a prominent position in the building.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u74	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u75	Madam President, without questioning the logic of the proposals of colleagues from GERB in relation to the addition of the word, the initial audit... only to be mandatory for implementation, I want to ask a question and perhaps in the form of a reply Mr. Dobrev will answer me. If, in the process of operation of the building changes, including the requirements of the European Commission regarding energy efficiency buildings and so on, which caused additional second, third, fifth or seventh audits, according to the years when this came, will the implementing measures or only be mandatory once in the first investigation, then these measures, even if there are other mandatory audits with measures, will not be mandatory for implementation? You understand me, Mr. Dobrev? That's my question. Perhaps it is nice, though, to drop the word "the first one" because in this case we only freeze things to one survey and further development of energy efficiency requirements if it has to meet new this building, there is no way we can oblige people to do so.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u76	- What's the line? Mr. Dobrev!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u77	Mr. Ermenkov, this addition is for greater clarity so that we do not fall into the situation in which the European rules and requirements change within a few years and are required after achieving the energy characteristic Class C recommended in the first examination, two years after that we need to increase this class to Class B or Class A. So in view of the situation in the country and in view of the extremely expensive measures in reaching Class A or close to zero consumption, we believe that at this stage it is reasonable to record the first energy survey, and subsequently, perhaps after five, seven or three years, you know that we always have the opportunity to change legislation so as to introduce higher requirements for the energy performance of buildings. But at this point, in our opinion, this is the appropriate model that we need to follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u78	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Ermenkov? You don't want to. Thank you. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u79	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I have a proposal in para. 1 to drop t uc 1 which is related to the exclusion of research facilities, which are the prayer homes of legally registered religions in the country. I see no sound sense in such a proposal not to be certified and therefore not to take energy efficiency measures for such buildings. First of all, because these buildings are, for the most part, newly built buildings, parts of the neighborhoods in urbanized territories. These are buildings that are in no way different from the other buildings next door. They have new materials and need heating or cooling as large groups of people gather there. Some of these temples function quite actively during the week, almost every night they have events. First of all, they should be certified because they are not effective in their activities. Very often they are heated since noon and accordingly measures are taken to cool them. The use of the relevant cooling and heating appliances is ineffective. From another point of view, people who reside, serve or worship their deities are subjected to climate terror. Very often the services continue for hours and these people freeze or collapse in heat. From this point of view, I do not see why they should not be certified and measures should not be taken to process the buildings accordingly. I think this point needs to be dropped. Let us not forget that the status of buildings is of cultural values. They are for the most part old prayer homes and in para. 2 are removed from the scope of art. 38 quite rightly, since the renovation of a monument of culture would make it anything but a monument of culture. I have made such a proposal in the Commission. 38, para. 1, t. 1 to be removed and the remaining points after para 1 respectively. 1 to be renumbered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u80	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u81	Mr. Simeonov, I understand your motives and concerns for religious people who spend a long time in prayer temples and for them there should be conditions that allow them to feel comfortable. However, this proposal, this exception, firstly, relates to the directive. Secondly, it does not mean that we prohibit religious or building owners from implementing energy efficiency measures. The difference is we don't oblige them. Firstly, the directive allows us not to oblige them. Secondly, you will probably agree with me that all these prayer temples throughout Bulgaria, regardless of whose religion they are owned, have a number of other problems related to the construction of the building, wall paintings and the dome, which must first be solved in order to be really prayer temples. If we oblige them by law to carry out energy efficiency measures first, this means that strengthening and repairing the buildings themselves must remain second. In this sense, we support the importer's proposal to remain the exception to the prayer homes of legally registered religions in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u82	Second line? A hole, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u83	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Dobrev, I have little understanding of the logic of your argumentation, but as a technical person I would like to offer you as a topic of reflection the following case. When the prayer home is part of a building because there are such cases, usually several floors are held for example by one religion, in which case the overall certification and appropriate processing for the energy efficiency of the entire building is compromised. Do you understand? It's just that someone very speculative can use point one and say that they have a prayer home here and that's why they won't sanitize. You know that in this way all over and below them will be subjected to ineffective renovations, regardless of what funds are invested. Leave the murals, they're on the inside. We're not talking about inside, we're talking about external efficiency measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u84	Any other MPs? Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u85	Mr. Simeonov, the example you set is interesting. There are indeed some religions that are housed in buildings that have other activities. However, if you look at art. 32, para. 2, which we have already voted on, it states that: "When separate parts in a new building have different uses and are separated as heat zones and each of the zones has an air-conditioned volume of less than 90 per cent of the total air-conditioned volume of the building, the certificate is issued separately for each area on a scale corresponding to the purpose of the area concerned. This means that the rest of the building, provided that this part is excluded, will be certified separately with a separate certificate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u86	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. We're going to vote on art. 38. First, I put to the vote Mr. Valeri Simeonov's proposal: in art. 38, para. 1 drop the text and numbering of t. 1: The prayer homes of the legally registered religions in the country. Colleagues, we're voting. They voted 82 MPs: 26, Against 14, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the full version of art. 38 on the Commission report. Vote 82 MPs: 80, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u87	Under art. 39 there is a proposal from the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Alexander Nenkov, Valentin Nikolov and Dimitar Zhelev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 39: Art. 39. (1) Until the issue of a certificate of energy performance of a building in operation, the energy performance shall be certified with the certificate of design energy performance of the building. (2) The owners of public service buildings in the territory shall acquire, under this law, a certificate of energy performance of the building within three years and no later than 6 years from the date of its entry into service. (3) The energy performance certificate of a building in operation shall be updated when carrying out activities leading to a change in the energy performance of the building: reconstructions, main renovations, major repairs covering more than 25 per cent of the area of the exterior enclosures and elements of the building, and re-use of existing buildings.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u88	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. Vote art. 39 of an importer in the version of the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The motion has been accepted, Article 39 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u89	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 40.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u90	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. We vote, colleagues, art. 40 on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 79 against 1, no abstentions. Article 40 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u91	Under art. 41 has a proposal from the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Alexander Nenkov, Valentin Nikolov, Dimitar Zhelev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 41: Art. 41. (1) When selling a building under art. 38, para. 3 The seller provides the buyer with the certificate of energy performance of the building, and when selling a stand-alone site in a building a copy of the building's energy performance certificate. (2) When renting a building under art. 38, para. 3 or on a stand-alone site in a building, the landlord shall provide the tenant with a copy of the energy performance certificate of the building. (3) Where a building in service for which a certificate of energy performance has been issued or a standalone object is declared for sale or rent, the specific annual cost of primary energy shall be indicated in all notices.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u92	Statements, honourable Members, under art. 41? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The attitude I'm going to take is the same as it was in connection with art. 34, for which I was able to explain to you why it is necessary to drop the words or another energy performance indicator of the building. The difference between art. Art. 41, Art. Article 34 is that. 34 concerns only new buildings, and Art. 34 concerns only new buildings. 41 concerns buildings already in operation to which a certificate of energy performance in service has already been issued. Nothing changes in meaning, so I'm asking you this time purely editorial from art. 41, para. 3 drop the expression or another indicator of the energy performance of the building by analogy with what we voted for art. 34. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u94	I understand, Mr. Ermenkov. Thank you. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u95	In fact, there is a difference between the two terms and it is precisely that in one case it is a new building, and in the other case it is a sale of an existing building. But the key to the proposal and the reason why we can adopt the same approach as in art. 34 is that it is explicitly stated that there is a certificate of energy performance already issued for the building, which means that this building should also have the energy performance indicator of the annual primary energy consumption in kilowatt hours per square meter. So I think that the procedural proposal of colleague Ermenkov could be accepted for dropping the words or another indicator of the energy performance of the building.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u96	Thank you. Do you want a hole? No. Any other speeches? I can't see. Firstly, we are voting on Mr. Ermenkov's proposal to drop a text in art. 41, para. 3, which reads:.. or another indicator of the energy performance of the building.................................................................................................. Please, colleagues, we are voting on Mr. Ermenkov's editorial amendment. Vote 85 MPs: 68 against 2, abstention 15. The editorial proposal is not accepted. Mr. Ermenkov, re-vote, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Please, let's follow the logic of the law. After we got into art. 34 if this fails, I do not see the logic to refrain from falling into art. 41. I ask you really not to become a law that contradicts itself inside. I therefore ask you to support this proposal. You can see that Mr. Dobrev supports him, too. It's purely editorial. Thanks again. I hope this time you will support it with the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u98	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. And I'm asking for concentration. Please, honourable Members, we are voting on the editorial proposal that Mr. Ermenkov defended just now. Vote 87 MPs: 78, no objection, abstention 9. In the case of quorum 70, the editorial change proposed by Mr. Ermenkov was accepted. Now, honourable Members, we are voting art. 41 with the editorial amendment voted before, made by Mr. Ermenkov. Colleagues, we vote art. 41. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u99	Under art. 42 The Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u100	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. Vote art. 42 on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u101	Under art. 43 has a proposal from the MP Petya Avramova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Metodi Andreev, Stanislav Ivanov and Kostadin Markov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 point (b) and does not support it in the rest. The unsupported part of the proposal is as follows: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 43 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 2 the word "supplied" shall be replaced by "supplied"; (b) c. 3: ... (bb) in point (b) the words "not less than 2 years' shall be replaced by "not less than 3 years' and the words "not less than 3 years' shall be replaced by "not less than 5 years'; (c) in letter, in the words, hold a valid certificate of successful examination for the acquisition of the necessary qualification for carrying out the activities under para. 1 in higher technical schools specializing in the professional fields,,,, e-technics, to be replaced by, possess full design competence in the specialties of the professional fields.., Electrotechnics, Architecture, Construction and Geodesy. 2. In para. 2, p. 5 the words.. hold a valid certificate of successful examination for the acquisition of the necessary qualification for carrying out the activities under para. 2 in higher technical schools specializing in the professional fields,,,, e-technics and, to be replaced by a full design competence in the specialties of the professional fields.., Electrotechnics, Architecture, Construction and Geodesy. 3. Allinei 3 and 6 drop out. Proposal from the National Representative Maya Manolova. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 point (b) and does not support it in the rest. The unsupported part is almost the same as the one read, but for the record, I will read it: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 43 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 2 the word "supplied" shall be replaced by "supplied"; (b) c. 3: ... (bb) in point (b) the words "not less than 2 years' shall be replaced by "not less than 3 years' and the words "not less than 3 years' shall be replaced by "not less than 5 years'; (c) in letter, in the words, hold a valid certificate of successful examination for the acquisition of the necessary qualification for carrying out the activities under para. 1 in higher technical schools specializing in the professional fields,,,, e-technics, to be replaced by, possess full design competence in the specialties of the professional fields.., Electrotechnics, Architecture, Construction and Geodesy. 2. In para. 2, p. 5 the words.. hold a valid certificate of successful examination for the acquisition of the necessary qualification for carrying out the activities under para. 2 in higher technical schools specializing in the professional fields,,,, e-technics and, to be replaced by a full design competence in the specialties of the professional fields.., Electrotechnics, Architecture, Construction and Geodesy. 3. Allinei 3 and 6 drop out. Proposal by the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Alexander Nenkov, Valentin Nikolov and Dimitar Zhelev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Zhelyo Boychev and Dragomir Stoinev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Kancho Filipov, Petar Petrov, Rosen Petrov, Martin Ivanov, Georgi Nedev and Krasimira Kovachka. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 43: Art. 43. (1) The energy efficiency survey, the certification of buildings, the assessment of the conformity of investment projects and the preparation of energy savings assessments shall be carried out by persons entered in the register under art. 44, para. 1 which: 1. are traders within the meaning of the Commercial Law or under the law of another Member State of the European Union or of another State of the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation; 2. possess the necessary technical means determined by the ordinance under art. 44, para. 9; 3. have the necessary staff of the energy efficiency consultants who meet the requirements of the ordinance under art. 44, para. 9 and: (a) have completed higher education in the field of technical sciences in professional field and specialties according to the requirements of the ordinance under art. 44, para. 9, recognised in the Republic of Bulgaria or in another Member State of the European Union, or in another State, a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or in the Swiss Confederation, or a completed secondary technical education; (b) have an internship in the specialty of at least two years for persons with an educational and qualified degree of Master, not less than three years for persons with an educational and qualified degree of Bachelor and not less than 6 years for persons with completed secondary technical education; (c) hold a certificate of successful examination for the acquisition of the necessary qualifications for carrying out the activities referred to in this subparagraph in higher technical schools specialised in the professional fields of............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (2) The energy efficiency survey, the certification of buildings, the assessment of the conformity of investment projects and the preparation of assessments of energy savings for buildings fifth category according to art. 137, para. 1, t. 5 of the Law on construction of the territory, except for buildings intended for public service of this category, may also be carried out by persons entered in the register under art. 44, para. 1 which: 1. are natural persons suppliers of energy efficiency that meet the requirements of the regulation under art. 44, para. 9; 2. have the necessary technical means specified by the ordinance under art. 44, para. 9; 3. have completed higher education in the field of technical sciences in professional direction and specialties according to the requirements of the regulation under art. 44, para. 9, recognised in the Republic of Bulgaria or in another Member State of the European Union, or in another State, a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or in the Swiss Confederation, or a completed secondary technical education; 4. have an internship in the specialty of not less than two years for the persons with educational and qualification degrees of Master and not less than three years for the persons with educational and qualification degrees of Bachelor and not less than 6 years for the persons with completed secondary technical education; 5. hold a certificate of successful examination for the acquisition of the necessary qualifications for carrying out the activities referred to in this subparagraph in higher technical schools specialised in the professional fields of (3) The qualification of energy efficiency consultants shall be acquired at two levels: 1. Level 1... have competence to carry out the activities under para. 1 for all categories of buildings under art. 137, para. 1 of the Law on construction of the territory and the nomenclature of types of constructions according to the different categories defined by the ordinance under art. 137, para. 2 of the Law on Construction in the Area; 2. Level 2.. have competence to carry out the activities under para. 1 for the fifth category buildings according to art. 137, para. 1, t. 5 of the Law on construction of the territory and the nomenclature of types of constructions according to the different categories defined by the ordinance under art. 137, para. 2 of the Law on Construction in the Area, except for public service buildings of the same category. (4) The persons under para. 1, including the staff employed by them, as well as the persons under para. 2 shall not be entitled to carry out energy efficiency testing and certification and/or conformity assessment of the energy efficiency projects of the building when they are: 1. designers of the building; 2. builders and/or suppliers of machinery, equipment and technological equipment of the building; 3. participants in the operation of the building; 4. participants in the implementation of energy saving measures in the building. (5) The energy efficiency consultants under para. 1, t. 3 may participate in the teams of no more than two persons under para. 1, t. 1 and under art. 59, para. 1, t. 1. (6) Energy efficiency consultants carrying out a building energy efficiency test before carrying out the energy saving measures prescribed in the audit shall not carry out an energy efficiency test to demonstrate the implementation of the prescribed measures, as well as an assessment to demonstrate the levels of energy savings achieved as a result of the implementation of those measures. (7) A declaration of absence of circumstances under para. 4 and 6...........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u102	Debates, statements under art. 43? Here you are, Mr. Andreev, along with a group of MPs, you have a proposal, partially unsupported.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In relation to art. 43 I have some remarks that I would like to share here with my fellow Members in this Chamber. It's a misunderstanding of what I've proposed with my colleagues. First of all, in respect of art. 43, para. 1, t. 2. There is a requirement that is entered, as adopted by the Commission, that the specialists involved in the certification of buildings, the preparation of energy efficiency assessments and so on must have the necessary technical means. I want to explain that...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u104	Determined by a regulation under art. 44, para. 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u105	Yes, according to the rules laid down in art. 44, para. 9. I have to explain the following feature: different appliances have to be used very often in the work of technical and expert groups. For example, when investigating the construction of a building it is necessary to have cryptometers available there, there should be apparatus for scanning the armies. Nowhere, in any provision which regulates the work of the specialists involved in examining building structures, there is an explicit requirement that they have these appliances because these appliances are expensive. And usually these appliances can be rented. And if you go on the Internet or are interested, you will see that there are institutions, that there are businesses that can serve the companies in question with these appliances to carry out their professional duties. It's the same case here. I had suggested that the word "possibly" should be replaced by "possible." This means that the apparatus that serves alongside the software to it, which serves to assess energy efficiency, does not need to be owned by the company or the expert who performs the specific investigation, because it means that this person or this company to reach in with about 10 to 15 thousand. lv. for an appliance that can be hired for a specific task. I do not see why the Commission did not accept this because this makes it easier for experts who are involved in assessing energy efficiency not bringing them into different costs, making their process much more mobile, much more normal and unrelated to additional financial problems with the purchase of these appliances. Not to mention that the software, which is Dutch, is actually owned by one of the people who stand entirely and monopolise this activity in the country, i.e. an assessment of energy efficiency, so that all companies that have to own this appliance should ultimately own this software. And this software can be purchased by a professor from Sofia University, I won't tell him his name, but it also creates an opportunity for practices that are not good to tolerate. That is why I propose and call you to art. 43, para. 1, t. 2 the word "suppose" to be replaced with "supplied," nothing bad. On the contrary, very good as an opportunity. With regard to point (b) (i) (i) (i) and (ii) (ii) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (i) (ii) (iii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) The idea of a point is tied to a point in a point. According to point "in', persons who can or are engaged in an energy efficiency assessment must have passed an examination for the acquisition of a qualification. This is now one of the main problems in art. 43, because the first law that was made in Bulgaria, which defined, regulated the activities of a large community of constructors, electric engineers, OB engineers, water engineers, general specialties concerning construction, this was the Law on the Chamber of Engineers in Investment Design. In this case, a precedent is established under this law for persons who have full design competence must have two requirements: one necessary and one sufficient. And that is at all the attitude of the state towards all such specialists. The necessary condition for a specialist to be able to practice his profession is to have completed the relevant specialty, to have a corresponding diploma for completed higher education. The second sufficient condition is that this person has practice in his specialty, that is, that is, that he has been practicing for some time what will work for the rest of his life. This relates to the concept of project service. And in the House of Engineers Act in investment design... [[The President signaled the expiry of time.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u106	To finish your sentence, your time is long gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u107	Yes, the same requirement needs to be regulated here. We can't take exams, we can't create a precedent for some people who have a higher education. Their qualification, their design competence, is obtained as a result of the application of their profession. Only then can we have a correlation between what we propose and what has been applied for several years now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u108	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. You defended this part of the proposal, which the Commission rejected. That's probably where you did it. Thanks for the argument. Replies to that statement? Here you are, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Andreev, a man with a conscious civil conscience... Where are you that I can't see you?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u110	Please, on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u111	A man with an upstanding civil conscience like you gives an opportunity for firms mediators. What is the meaning of this? So this can, with a fictitious employment contract, win this privilege that gives him this law, because he, to all of us, gives us a great privilege, a great front for energy evaluation of a new strata, to which we will just like that, give bread in our hands. That's the truth. Let them at least try to secure the necessary tools, the necessary appliances. You say, "They're expensive." Well, they'll take credit if they have to. How does it sound, for example, to give a taxi license to a person who doesn't have a car? It doesn't sound good to me, because this guy could immediately become an intermediary, an intermediate unit, a distribution unit, if he has a corresponding position in the hierarchy. If it is close to the hierarchy that evaluates and gives the relevant certificates, this person or this company, without having the necessary equipment, can suddenly become an intermediary and overreach. Because, throughout the law, I do not see any ban on this activity being awarded to a delegate, so let us not create these conditions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u112	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov, for the line. Second line? Mr. Tasco Ermenkov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u113	Colleagues, I, from the experience of the Executive Director of the Energy Efficiency Agency then, and now, on sustainable energy development, will say that in the first law that we adopted in 2004, which entered into force on 5 March, it was envisaged that companies should have ownership of these appliances for one single reason that, otherwise, with the amendments that were then received, it became what is at risk if we do not write They sign a contract with the owner that they have it and start such a domino story that neither makes sense nor needs to be done. Mr. Simeonov is absolutely right. We cannot create by law a field of activity and in it a field of activity to do mice in terms of ownership of labour funds that each company should have. As for the exams held and the certificates received by colleagues, if you notice, the meaning of the law, the meaning of the European directives of European legislation is that a new profession is being created. It is called the Energy Efficiency Consultant. It's not called a projector. It's not called an architect. It's not called an engineer. Architects, designers and engineers may, if they so wish, also become representatives of the profession of Energy Efficiency Consultant. You see that, among other things, given the European experience, permission is given, including those adopted by the Commission, and those with secondary education, respectively, to be able to pursue this profession. And if we just limit ourselves to a designer, this is really, I don't know how it sounds to you, but it sounds lobbyist to me. We close all the work to some designers so that we don't take their bread and they can do whatever they want out of control, so please very much, let's unite around what the Commission has proposed and not do voluntary exercises on the topic of Energy Efficiency without very understanding it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u114	And thank you for the line. Third line? Mrs. Petya Avramova, please take the stand. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm coming up with a line to my colleague Metodi Andreev. I fully support his proposal to have the equipment that will be carried out. I will argue that construction companies can hire equipment and carry out large construction sites. The Public Procurement Act allows the equipment to be declared to be hired, and we are setting a precedent here only for companies carrying out energy efficiency to be unable to employ an investigative technique. Can I do a single procedure? If possible, we can vote on Mr. Andreev's proposal separately in the technique part of it and it is available, not just its own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u116	Okay, thank you. That is to say, you are making a procedural proposal to vote Mr. Andreev in another part separately. Dear colleagues, before I give the floor to the duplicate, we must vote on the procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] Okay, I'm giving it a shot at the back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u117	First, I would like to thank my colleague Avramova for her understanding. I mean, about what Mr. Valeri Simeonov said. It is a profound misunderstanding, Mr. Valeri Simeonov, to want a firm to be equipped with all the equipment needed for her work. I can tell you that as a construction engineer and constructor who has done extremely many constructive investigations, I personally do not have in my company my own spirometer, nor my own scanner for the army. This is done by larger companies. The man goes, hires them and does his job. There can't be a mouse here, it's a normal process. The other thing I want to say to Mr. Ermenkov. He hinted that the things they're doing here are some kind of thoughtless suggestion. I'll tell you what. The software is a monopoly. Mr. Ermenkov knows very well the software with which this equipment works, whose monopoly is of a friend of his from the Technical University, and it is Dutch software. That is, in any case, you can buy the appliance, but the software must be taken from one person. You should know that! The other thing is the question of the exam. Mr. Ermenkov, if a surgeon shows up at the famous energy efficiency courses and then takes an exam with the same person from Technical University, will the surgeon become an energy efficiency specialist ask you? What is this new profession with 3-year courses you are getting a new profession?! You can get a new qualification, but the profession is the result of your studies, from your exams, from the qualifications you receive in relation to your diploma. It is insane for constructors who are responsible for the security of buildings not to hold any exams. When they graduate, they have a single requirement that they have the necessary internship in the specialty, and build buildings, notice, from single family houses to skyscrapers, no first, no second degree. This is fictional, honourable colleagues, for one thing only to be able to take twice a person's exam, to pay a huge amount of money to certain people, and if this person is to be torn to the test again, to take the exam that is the point. Therefore, we need to seriously review the points related to the requirement for an examination. No one holds an exam.. neither surgeons after having completed their higher education, nor construction engineers after having completed their construction education, nor electricians, nor energyists. They work and they improve, they get a full designer's degree, that's the point. Who is it that said that those who test the specialists in question have the necessary qualifications? Who gave them that right? Who said: these people are the most competent, they can test and they can decide who has and who has no right to work?! This is not serious.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u118	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. We heard your back. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] Mr. Ermenkov, you gave him a line. The most normal thing is in the back he should mention to you. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] Mr. Ermenkov, I didn't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u119	He accused me of being friends with someone. That's an insult.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u120	Mr. Ermenkov, this is your personal interpretation. I don't have a chance to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u121	Okay, I'll make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u122	Of course, as a statement you can. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] Mr. Martin Dimitrov, come in for a statement. Okay, I'm recording you for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I believe that most of the editorials and amendments to this Law are in the right direction, but I want to bring you back to the main philosophy. [[Relation of lines between the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Metodi Andreev. Noise and lines.]] What we're doing together...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u124	Order, please! Mr. Dimitrov, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u125	What we are doing together, honourable Members, is expanding competition. [[Extends the exchange of lines between the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Metodi Andreev.]] Mr. Ermenkov, since I address you personally...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u126	Mr. Ermenkov, please take your place.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u127	...I want your attention, Mr. Ermenkov. The most important changes to this bill we are making concern the expansion of competition. That is to say, we are giving this new niche, which is being created for energy efficiency consultants, to have more companies and more participants. That is why we give the opportunity not only to people with higher education, but also to people with secondary education and six years of internship, taking an exam, to participate. In this regard, I would like to support only one of the proposals of my colleague Metodi Andreev, who is currently not paying attention again. When it comes to possessing a technique, why should I support you, Mr. Andreev? Because when a company takes the equipment of an operating financial lease, listen to me well, colleagues: operating financial leasing, and you ask: Does this company own the equipment? It's an operating financial lease. Does he own it? He doesn't own it. Therefore, the use of the supplier is more appropriate because, in the modern world and the development of technology, it is normal for similar operating financial leasing schemes to become more and more. Imagine, a company uses this model so every three or four years I can replace its equipment with a new one. Mr. Andreev's other proposals do not meet my basic criterion, which I set before you in the beginning for more competition, so I would not support it. But especially on the subject of this, it is rather important that we use the term............................................ because otherwise you see, colleagues, what we get. The richer companies will own and they will gain advantage over those who are in smaller settlements. For example, in the region of Haskovo, Mr. Dobrev, there I suppose that companies have fewer financial opportunities, although they know a person, and it turns out that unlike the larger companies, which are to say in Haskovo city, who own similar equipment, in smaller towns in Haskovo region do not own and could be more difficult to buy, that is to say, put them in an unequal competitive position compared to others. For this reason, it is reasonable if our goal is quality and competition, and the quality we get through it is that there are more companies to deliver the relevant service. And now, colleagues, here we have the responsibility of those who hire the companies. Well, they're gonna check what equipment they have, what specialists have, we always have a personal responsibility. Whatever texts we offer and whatever guarantees we try to write in the Law, from the issue of personal responsibility when hiring a particular firm we cannot escape. When hiring companies there will be competition, there will be different prices and different quality. Each contracting entity shall keep its eyes open, including in the procedures of choice, including when approving the firm concerned. I would like to assure you, fellow Members, that it is wiser to change this term, continuing the same logic of things more companies, more competition for better prices and better quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u128	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. You are essentially supporting part of the proposal and most likely the split vote. Are there any lines to Mr. Dimitrov's statement? Here you go, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u129	Mr. Dimitrov, I could not understand why with the rest of my proposals you do not agree when this remaining part was clearly explained? It concerns whether some people need to be tested by unknown people in order to obtain some new profession, as you have said here in the Chamber, or should have the necessary two things: a diploma for completed higher education and acquired full designer competence. Why do we have to introduce new requirements that, again, I say, lead to corruption schemes? First test for the first level of energy efficiency, second exam for the second level of qualification. You understand that this cannot be applied in a system that has experience in this direction. This means that when a surgeon decides, for example, to become abdominal surgeon, and then another surgeon, he should take exams. No, it's a matter of qualification. This is acquired by professional application of its knowledge and profession. There's no need for anyone to test some people and give them a new profession. That's what I mean. You can't give a new profession with a single exam. Tell me one of you in the gym, did you get your profession with a single exam? If there's one, call me!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u130	Driver's license!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u131	Thanks for the line. Second line, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u132	Mr. Dimitrov, I feel obliged to respond, to make a line, because several times you have given examples with Haskovo, do they or do they not have equipment in Haskovo? In fact, I support the thesis that appliances should be owned. It's not about anything else, it's because they're not worth millions. These appliances must cost several thousand leva, and only one survey costs 20-30-50 thousand leva. The colleague Petya Avramova is wrong because the company has the opportunity to have the equipment, but it in the construction costs hundreds of thousands and millions. Here we are talking about equipment that costs several thousand leva and which will be paid for at the very first won audit to the one who bought it. In this case, given that there are thousands, tens of thousands of sites in the country, not to mention hundreds of thousands, which will be audited, one company to provide 15 other supposedly rentals, and no one to use these appliances and not to buy them, and they to cost several thousand levs, it is not serious. In the rest of your speech, I support you because I also believe that there should be an opportunity for greater competition here and that people with full design competence, as is the proposal of colleagues, should not be allowed to occupy an entire sector of the Bulgarian economy. Because basically that's the proposal, reading between the lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u133	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Third line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u134	Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I also join what Mr. Dobrev said, with whom I have already had the pleasure to share with me an activity that is more technological intellectual activity, for which it is necessary to have measuring instruments that, by average calculations, cost no more than 3-4 thousand leva in this case, at least such are my memories that they cost these appliances to prevent this company from registering and being able to act in terms of energy efficiency without having a toolbox. Tomorrow it may turn out that the company that declared that it had the relevant activity, that it had the relevant equipment, because it intended to borrow it from someone, was hired to do some work, but it might not be able to get the equipment, because it was given to another firm for rent. Unfortunately, that thing had it. That's why I'm suggesting that she stays in possession. I'm gonna go with the software he's speculating on right now. He has nothing to do with the equipment he owns. The instruments are for measuring thermal conductivity, physical measurement of volumes for the buildings concerned. They are in no way connected to special software that is sold or sold elsewhere is monopolised. Mr. Dobrev is right to disagree with you, and I disagree. Let's keep the amount of property held in order to have order throughout the system. I am referring to the large volumes of activities that are to be carried out with all the buildings on which we have to investigate, the square, the existing companies, so that these volumes can eventually be implemented, and not placed under the risk of whether or not a company currently has or does not have the appropriate equipment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u135	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u136	Dear colleagues, the main goal that we set and which was supported by colleague Dobrev, in some sense by Mr. Ermenkov, is more competition. The requirement to possess the technique, that is to say to be yours, is some kind of limitation. I also talked to fellow engineers. There is equipment that is far more expensive than 3-4 thousand leva, which may need to be used in the investigation. For a reason, I set an example with smaller settlements, for example in Haskovo region, where it may be a problem for companies to buy such equipment. In order to be effective in realising our main priority, more competition for the realization of better quality and good prices, we should change the term I continue to support this thesis, despite all the arguments you've made. Again, think about it. Operating finance leases with him do not own anything, you are not the owner, and many companies can use operating financial leases. It is in Western Europe so they can replace their equipment with new equipment every three or five years. Then these companies automatically do not meet the law requirement. Finally, colleagues, think about it. Any requirement to own such equipment effectively increases the price and reduces competition opportunities. By the way, colleagues, if all the equipment is 3-4 thousand. leva, that question wouldn't have stood. Finally, I will add the price of the investigation in Bulgaria is quite low. Here Mr. Dobrev gave us some high prices that may apply to a particular case. I heard the price is one to three leva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u137	Two or three leva squared.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u138	So to fully realize the objective set so far, we should act in this way to change the term................................................................................................. Mr. Andreev, with all due respect to your personal expertise, but the requirement for more competition in this case leads us to the idea of having an exam for everyone. Your fellow designers, given their competence, will easily pass the exam. This will be like a little test for them and no problem. I don't see what your concern is based on. For so many competent people, it will be an honor with ease and pleasure to take this exam. I mean it with a little irony, of course. The problem that you are putting into place is really not that serious.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u139	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. The speech is given by the people's representative Mrs. Maya Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u140	Honourable Members, Mr. President, this must be one of the few cases in which Mr. Metodi Andreev and I have tabled the same proposals and we are basically defending the same ones under a bill that is up to date... [[People representatives Martin Dimitrov and Tasco Ermenkov are talking to each other. Noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u141	Mrs. Manolova, I'm sorry. Mr. Dimitrov, please, there have been speeches made to you. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u142	...in view of the actuality of the subject of energy audits. In fact, these proposals that we have made must be absolutely correct, are proposals from the Chamber of Engineers in the investment design, which has 13,000 members and which has its history, its authority in the professional industry. In this regard, although I am far enough away from the subject, because of the commitment made, I had to read and take an interest and also pay attention to the debates that are taking place in the Chamber. I would therefore like to draw attention to Mr. Metodi Andreev, with whom we have tabled the same proposals, on the dynamics in the discussion and in the final version of the texts. In the end, the Commission, and I suppose the House, will support an editorial that allows them to become consultants on energy efficiency and persons who have completed besides higher technical but secondary technical education. This is a text that acted in the old law, which was changed by GERB in February 2013. Then it was forbidden for people with secondary education to be able to deal with energy audits. Now I see that the MPs of GERB are ready to return this opportunity and it also has its logic, because the buildings that are to be monitored are indeed tens of thousands, and given the programme that the government has announced for renovation of buildings. In my opinion, in the context of the committee's decision, that they will be able to deal with energy audits and people with secondary education and at all different technical educations, and not just those who offer the House, we may end up listening to the proposal for a qualification course to end up with an examination. I fully agree with your arguments, Mr. Andreev, when it comes to designer with higher engineering and technical education. Another is the situation when it comes to a person who has simply completed secondary technical education. A step forward is the fact that these courses will already be made once and for the entire professional career, with which I also support Mrs. Petya Avramova's proposal, because it will really limit speculation and, above all, the way one company, one person to win from endless courses with endless exams in relation to people who will perform an energy audit. At the same time, I would like to bring further arguments to the proposal that we have made together with you.. companies to have and not to have the necessary equipment. I will support here the proposal to vote separately on these texts. You don't have to put him to the vote. It's standard practice. Because the proposals are different in a joint proposal...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u143	You wish, including your proposal, unsupported, to be separated?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u144	My proposal is the same as Mr. Metodi Andreev's, so the proposal under para. 1 point (s) to be voted separately from the other proposals. Here I would like to tell Mr. Martin Dimitrov and Mr. Dobrev that the reality of the prices at which investigations are carried out is very different from what you are informed about. I will give you an example with Kyustendil: according to a public contract announced by the Ministry of Education and Science the price for surveying per square meter reached BGN 0.23. It's a lot less than BGN 1. After all, it's 1,000 leva. There was an energy audit of schools in Kyustendil municipality. I guess the situation isn't very different in other cities, either. At the same time, I would like to point out to you that the buildings to be investigated must be tens of thousands, and at the moment, the registered companies I checked in the register are 290, and the consultants are 8. In other words, it is very important whether it really will not encapsulate this profession, which has huge opportunities for work, for making money and so on. In this regard, I suggest that we do not create further obstacles. Let's support the proposal to have the company because, indeed, if it is not even an income, but for volumes of 1000-2000 BGN, imagine your renovation program. That's where you said a firm would be building a block. An energy consultant should be doing research on a building. Let's give more people the opportunity to join this market without having a pre-needed technique and so on, because this is really fair and will give both business and people who have just walked into this, as it becomes clear, an extremely promising profession.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. We have understood your thesis and suggestions. - What's the line? Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u146	Today, we are witnessing a rare phenomenon.. Me and Maya Manolova are importing the same texts, which is good [[crowd cheering and cheering]] which means that this problem is not really party colored, but is principled. Because I can hardly stand on her thesis, and she can stand on mine. What it offers for specialists with secondary education, yes, there can already have exams because of them the levels of education are basically, secondary, higher and PhD. They lack one level. An exam can be applied there. But for people who have graduated from higher education who have completed the entire course, who have full designer skills, putting in exams is not serious.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u147	Thanks for the line. Second line? I don't see anyone who wants to. A hole, Mrs. Manolova? No. Here's your speech, Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u148	I want to strongly support Mr. Andreev in both his proposals. About having the necessary equipment to participate in some process, to win some kind of public procurement. For so many years, those who worked under the Public Procurement Act know that the direction of changes in it was to increase competition, to be able to appear much more companies. With this proposal we contradict the logic of this law because the bill is extremely simple. If these appliances can afford five companies, 50 will want to appear on the appropriate order. You mean when will the competition be higher? If we follow this logic, let's get the designers to own computers with certain parameters and software for certain activities. It doesn't make sense. If we have to drive road companies to win a public procurement to own asphalt bases, we are still narrowing the circle of companies that will participate. So I strongly support the suggestion that the words "I have the power to replace them with "the ones who are" and "the ones who are." A lot of arguments have been heard about the exam, but I have to tell you that I am imagining an extremely funny situation: there are professors sitting in the same room, I don't even know if they're going to be professors, and they're taking the exam Professor. Nazerski is the largest building material coffer in this country. The investigation has two main components.. the qualities of the construction materials and the qualities of the construction. How are you going to feel about this guy who invented this thing?! If it's me, I'll get up and leave. What kind of eyes would you have with such people?! I know they're involved in companies like this. The absurdity is as big as, say, GERB in three years to get Boyko Borisov and test him whether he is fit to be the leader of the party. He figured it out. It's not gonna happen. Let there be midterm exams, but for graduates there is no way to experience these people, there is no way with which to call them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u149	Thank you, Mr. Markov. That's an interesting analogy. Party leaders are usually tested at congress and elections. Replies to Mr. Markov's statement? I can't see. My fellow Members, there are still speeches to be made, but I suggest that this be done after the break. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. Please, everyone in the hall at 11.50. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u150	Dear colleagues, we're moving on. Before the break for speech was signed the people representative Tasco Ermenkov. Dear Mr. Ermenkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u151	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll take a couple of questions. First, according to what is called whether they have the equipment concerned or have the equipment concerned. I just want to read you art. 17, para. 1 Directive 2010/31 of the European Union has already been corrected, which reads as follows: The Member States shall ensure that the issuing of certificates of energy performance of buildings and inspections on heating and air conditioning installations are carried out independently by qualified and/or qualified experts. I ask you: what kind of independence can you have if you do not have the relevant equipment that you can work with and you have to work with, what kind of independence you can have, when, for example, in a region we have talked here with a colleague who also defends this thesis, which I will now tell you, someone decides to monopolise the ownership of the relevant appliances and to rent them only to certain companies that are closer to the municipality or more distant, to give them other conditions, that is, the independence of the activity is, besides the lack of conflict of interest and ownership of the production funds, if I can express myself so that you can really carry out your activities without depending on someone else whether you will rent something, whether you will have it or not. What's more, when we talk about this activity and its scope, it's nice for people, having this equipment, to know and be able to use it, because it's one thing to have and to have it, it's another thing to own it and to be able to constantly improve on the use of the device. As for whether and how the exams should be conducted, I want to tell you that I really made a mistake in my previous line that I was talking about a new profession. It's about qualifications. There's no way you can get one qualification without taking the appropriate courses. It is true that at the moment there is a distortion of the situation and many of our colleagues have said that. It is true that by 2010, while I was executive director of the agency, for the courses for these energy efficiency consultants, as we already call them, the price paid for a specialist today was paid for the entire team and the software was given free of charge. It's not Dutch, it's Norwegian. We had a contract with the Norwegian government, were given, if I'm not mistaken, 2500 licenses for this software, which had to be distributed free of charge to the companies and in my day it was so. Why it has then become a trade and craftsmanship, and the part of the professorship of some of the people has been replaced by a slightly more commercial dimension, I am no longer to blame for this thing. At least it's the people who take classes who are responsible. But please, let's not close the door to the so-called energy efficiency consultants. Let us leave things the way they have been proposed by the Commission, because they have been proposed not because the Commission liked it so, but because they are a synthesis of many disputes, of many interests, because there is no way that there is no interest in this activity, and of many measured compromises made so that both consumers and contracting entities and contractors are equally protected. Once again, I ask you: let us support the text as proposed by the Commission, because I really believe that it responds most to the interests of all those involved in carrying out energy efficiency audits. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u152	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Here's a line for you, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u153	Mr. Ermenkov, I would like to tell you that you are making a very baseless suggestion, quoting what you quoted as an independent expert. One has absolutely nothing to do with the other. The directive, as an independent expertise, refers to something quite different from having an independent appliance, having it and working with it. You're trying to create such an impression, and I think you're wrong. I do not wish that in this House we create natural monopolies administratively that guarantee certain companies jobs and do not allow smaller companies to carry out this activity. I want to tell you that to buy a 15,000-dollar appliance. BGN, without having guaranteed activity and knowing that in this year you can not win any public contract to fulfill, how profitable it is to own this appliance for 15 thousand. lv.? Let us give companies the opportunity to hire such equipment, to participate in public procurement and to carry out such activities. Let us not monopolize the market only for large companies who have the opportunity to buy such appliances and give them the opportunity to work only them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u154	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Ermenkov, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u155	Mrs. Avramova, the last thing I'm trying to do is make suggestions from this tribune. I'm making an opinion, and I'm trying to make a point. Moreover, I am defending an opinion and arguing the opinion of a proposal of the Commission and of colleagues from GERB, and of the governors from GERB, is not mine. This is their proposal, and I defend their proposal as paradoxically as it may sound, but it is reasonable and normal, because it is the truth and so must be things. Don't take it as an insult. I say those who have faced energy efficiency and the processes know why they propose this thing. When we talk about independence, notice, in the old text, which was unedited and which was quite abused in the directive, there was talk of independent qualified or accredited experts. There's a new, faithful version that says "in an independent way." You know what I mean? If we create monopolies, I am worried that we will create monopolies for the owners of those who have appliances and those who have appliances will abuse power and position. It's not $20,000. lv. Twenty thousand leva could cost the equipment, if it comes to the investigation of industrial systems, yes, there is a really much more specific technique that includes gas analysts and other more technological requirements for them. When it comes to building, not so big and expensive appliances, considering the volume of buildings. I told you, at least from my memories, at the time I was there, a set, because we did this check, not to put too much pressure on the companies, was worth about 3 4,000. lv. Buildings are all I'm talking about. You have things that have to measure heat current, you have to measure ventilation, insulation, that is, heat conduction, and measure power. It's not that big of a deal. But, again, this is a matter of political decision. My concern is that we will create with the lack of requirements for the possession of the appliances a group of parasite companies, if I may say so, which with minimal costs and lack of them, because here I do not want to enter into the topic of how and under what conditions the staff in these companies work, that we will enter into a completely different discussion already, will appear somewhere, after which they will look for the scheme from one time in Bulgaria: two meet, do business, shake hands, one goes looking for the money, and the other goes for the goods. You know what I mean? So I think it's nice to have what people have and what they're working with so that they can really at any moment when they're called not to look for equipment, but to take it out of their drawer and go to work with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u156	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. To speak, the public representative Emil Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u157	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues! Infatuated with a lobbyist amendment, we've come to a bit of an extreme. They've put in two of these. The first was: is qualification and competence necessary? She started by whether she could and those with secondary education and reached out to whether the academic community should test themselves. Educational and qualification degrees are the Bachelor's degree and the Master's degree. The Doctor is one intermediate and the other is the academic community. I agree that it would not be right for one professor to test another professor, but it is not right for a professor to register a firm and bye-mangal to work for him later as a delegate. Mr. Andreev said that everyone with a master's degree should exercise their activities by right. And down goes: can you do the ones with a medium? I am grateful to Mr. President for giving a break, because otherwise we would have come to this...................... if we couldn't do without education, as it is enough for only those who want to say that there is a desire and a measure for this business. We also heard the thesis that you should not be given professional competence with just one exam. Well, it is now. Most occupations in the service field have one exam: waiter, crane player, cook. And the drivers of motor vehicles with how many exams do they get, with which they drive cars for life, carry out transport activities and serve their children? So you can do it with one exam. And that argument is out of the question. Right hand developed two beautiful ones. One is to allow almost every merakliya to work because it will create jobs and the other one will be on operating lease because it will increase competition. Then should we cancel the education rate at all?! As far as operating leases are concerned. Have you ever heard of someone who bought equipment, then lent it to an operating lease and wanted to lose their business? No, he wants rent and the company that rented this equipment will include it in the price at which it will carry out its activities. Well, this company, if it buys the equipment itself and of any deferred payment includes it in the price of the service or takes an operating lease and the value of the lease, includes it in the service, how will it be cheaper? I mean, that argument is also out of the question. And whether it is with its own technique, whether it is with an operating lease the price will be almost the same because no one wants to lose and vice versa to win. The debate also revolved around an important dilemma: could it ultimately be without education, professional qualifications, without the existence of a specific technique of performing a highly specialized and using a very strictly necessary profession appliances? Some people said it was possible, others said it was unacceptable. If I ask you: can a hospital have no doctors, no specialists, no X-rays, no labs, but still allow it to heal, you will all say: "No. I, if I go there, I want to have these things, but here we are ready to cancel everyone. The people said, "Where are you going to a wedding without a groom?" We have two exits to adopt an extremely lobbying text: Any candidate close to the ruling party should not declare a corresponding education and the presence of a technique. That's a beautiful text! This consultant should offer only two declarations: loyalty to the party concerned and express willingness to educate himself if necessary, hire a technique, hire specialists. [[Applause from PF.]] The other is what we started with. Everything else is lobbying. It's no use. Let's do it. As for a professor to test a professor, I personally would feel uncomfortable in such a committee, but for everyone else who wants to receive money and exercise this activity, we must prove that they really can do it, because it is an activity with a lot of money, with a lot of consequences, and since we are solving this business, we must also have corresponding requirements for this kind of candidate. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u158	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? Mr. Tasco Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u159	At the risk of becoming annoying if I'm not up already. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I will begin, first, with an admiration in the way you protected the possession. Thank you, but my line is on the second part about a professor testing a professor. Note that the process of monitoring energy efficiency does not only include insulation, floor cover, roof insulation, dograms and other such, but is a process that includes a building in its integrity, which includes ventilation, heating, air conditioning, including why not water supply, which is also an element of the energy distribution part, electricity. When we talk about acquiring an expert qualification, about an energy efficiency consultant, one has to be really familiar with all those parts that are related to energy efficiency in their aggregate in order to be able to view them as a whole. Yeah, he's strong in the part of isolation, but he still has to have an idea in that part that's called.................................................................................... Therefore, when we talk about an exam, we are not talking about Professor "H" to test Professor "U" because they are both from the Construction Institute and they know each other and have done one thing or another, but to expand our view on issues from another point of view. It's not about humiliating one professor in front of another, it's about training, which is about things that give a different angle of discussion. So I say again: let's not bring it to the point that one professor is going to test another professor, but it's really about acquiring a qualification which is called the Energy Efficiency Consultant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u160	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Dimitrov? [[Reply from the National Representative Emil Dimitrov.]] He won't take advantage of his right to a line. To speak, the People's Representative Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u161	Dear colleagues, it was an interesting discussion. I'll try to sum it up. It has somewhat staggered in the direction of whether exams should be conducted to acquire this specific professional qualification, or should not, but in fact escaped from the more substantial proposal or the more essential part in the proposal of colleagues Metodi Andreyev and Maya Manolova in relation to the rejected part, of course, about who can carry out this activity. In fact, the more important part of the rejected proposal is that the Chamber of Engineers in the investment design offer only them or only people with full design competence to carry out this activity, which we believe is incorrect and which must be categorically rejected. From then on, the text agrees with the fact that it eliminates the periodicity of taking courses and taking exams, because until now the practice has been that not only are you taking this certificate, passing the course, taking the exam, receiving the certificate or certificate, but every three or five years you have to reappear and repeat this exam. With the Commission's proposal, around which all our colleagues from the Energy Commission have united, this is out of the question. In fact, at the beginning you get the certificate and it does not have a period of validity, as proposed by colleague Petya Avramova. In this sense, the text is consensus, balanced and ensures, firstly, that we will have the quality of the service done, because we will be sure that the people who carry out the energy audit have the professional qualification necessary for professional qualification, regardless of whether they have completed certain engineering specials or something else, passing the course and passing the exam ensures that they will have the necessary qualifications. Regarding whether the appliances should be owned or the companies can have them, I told you that my opinion is that they should be owned. After all, these are not so expensive appliances, they are not worth hundreds, thousands or millions, they cost several thousand leva. This is how we verify that these appliances are really available. If you think that..... is enough because there have been enough voices in this direction, everyone can decide for themselves whether to support this procedural proposal or not. My appeal is to support the proposal, the Commission's version, because it is indeed balanced. On the one hand, it ensures the quality of the service performed, on the other hand, removes this, if you want, administrative, if you wish, financial burden, if you will, this inconvenience and annoying everyone at a certain time period to re-exam and to pass courses, which is really pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u162	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. - What's the line? Mrs. Maya Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u163	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Dobrev! In fact, the debate is not only to say its preliminary position, but to hear the arguments of the other side and to let it be convinced when its opponent's proposal is better. As a result of this debate, I have convinced myself that the text of the Commission, which also enables people with secondary technical education, after passing the appropriate course and taking the relevant examinations, to engage in an energy audit, is better than our proposal, so I will support it. On the other hand, I think that you, as importers of the proposal, should hear our arguments and agree with them. This is what we're talking about. Tens of thousands of buildings, including one part of them, are to be monitored by the government's famous Sanitation Program. I went to all the trouble right now to check this register that we're talking about under art. It includes 290 companies and 8 consultants, 8 natural persons who meet the requirements. So 300 people are about to deal with a market of tens of thousands of buildings. With this proposal, whether to have the necessary equipment or to own it, we will either close the door of this market or allow small, small, sole traders, individuals applying for energy audit of the fifth-type building, or, as it is, the smallest buildings, to have the opportunity to participate in this competitive market. If you do not accept our proposal with Mr. Metodi Andreyev, this means that you are only and only for the big ones, for those who have already established themselves [[the President signals that time has run out]] and who won't be able to do all the work. Give the little ones a chance, too, who are now going to this market. Thus, if you will, you will also solve some of the problem of unemployment and the need for new jobs. People will have the incentive to qualify.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u164	Time, Mrs. Manolova!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u165	Because they have a market after that to offer their skills.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u166	Thank you. Any other lines? People's representative Tasco Ermenkov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u167	Mr. Dobrev, you have failed to reassure everyone in this room that we have provided a completely different regime for these companies for small buildings. That's exactly how it's written, for small buildings it's written that those who conduct the investigation have the necessary equipment. So there is no fear that those who will work with small buildings will have to buy their equipment. There's a record of it. In other words, those who want to investigate buildings that are category five do not need to buy equipment. It's written here that he should have it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u168	To Maya Manolova!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u169	She had a line, I told you that you didn't say that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u170	Any other lines? Mr. Dobrev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u171	I would accept the thesis of the small and the small and the small to remain small, and the large ones if these appliances were worth hundreds of thousands of pounds they cost several thousand leva. One of these companies has a team of at least five people. If it's worth 2,000. BGN, each of these five people must set aside 400 leva. You can see how it's 400 leva. Any little one could get big. But let's not get into this debate because I think we've gone too far. I suggest, as I did in my speech, that each of you decide whether 2-3 thousand. lv. owning the appliances would stop the competition or not, and whether it would affect at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u172	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Any other speeches? I won't. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u173	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose an editorial amendment in the holiday we talked to Mr. Delyan Dobrev in art. 43, para. 1, t. ..in............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The justification is as follows. At the University of Architecture, Construction and Geodesy specialities related to isolation are studied. There are also specialists who can train and conduct courses related to energy audits. That's it. This is an editorial amendment................................................................ architecture, construction and This is the scientific direction, this is the professional direction: Architecture, Construction and Geodesy. This is how the professional direction is formulated.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u174	Okay. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting on the proposal of the MPs Metodi Andreyev, Stanislav Ivanov, Konstantin Markov, in his unsupported part of the Commission there was a proposal art. 43, para. 1, t. 1, b. The vote shall be taken separately. It reads:................................................................................. 2 the word "supposes" to be replaced by "supplied." I put this proposal to the vote, a vote separately on this proposal, to be taken. 2 the word "supposes" to be replaced by "supplied." 90 MPs voted: 69, against 13, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u175	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u176	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am asking for a re-voting procedure, as colleagues have failed to vote. As you can see, they're still moving in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u178	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote again in art. 43, para. 1, t. 1 sub-paragraph (s) which states: 2 the word "supposes" to be replaced by "supplied" and "supplied." They voted 93 MPs: 71, against 15, abstentioned 7. [[Single applause from the hall.]] The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the proposal of the MPs Metodi Andreev, Stanislav Ivanov, Kostadin Markov in the rest, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 4 against 36, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the proposal of the MP Maya Manolova. One part of this proposal has already been accepted. I vote on the rest, which is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u179	Mr. Chairman, cancel this vote. You shouldn't vote on my proposal at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u180	You didn't withdraw it, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u181	Because they're identical to Metodi Andreyev's.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u182	Yeah, but it's a separate offer. 70 MPs voted: 8 against 20, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u183	Yeah, but one part was backed up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u184	I didn't put him to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u185	It's the same thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u186	Now I vote on the proposal made by the MP Metodi Andreev to add...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u187	But they're the same, and that's how it works...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u188	Yeah, and we got the same result. As they are the same, the same result was obtained. It's simple.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u189	But you can get a different result.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u190	But it didn't work out. [[Extreme lines from the National Representative Maya Manolova away from the microphones.]] I put to the vote a point "in" in the version of the Commission, a proposal by the National Representative Metodi Andreev, who proposed that after "supposed" "Electrotechnics" should be added to "Architecture, Construction and Geodesy." Please vote on the editorial proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev according to the text he proposed to you. Vote 95 MPs: 87, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the final text of art. 43 according to the Commission report and the adopted editorial changes, namely: in art. 43, para. 1, t. 2 shall read as follows: they shall be entitled by the necessary technical means determined by the ordinance under art. 44, para. 9 "As well as what Mr. Metodi Andreyev did and voted on a short addition to this. 3 letter in the box, as he read it from the stands and I read it just now. Please vote on the final text with the proposed version for art. 43. Vote 89 MPs: for 76, against 10, abstention 3. The text of art. 43 on the Commission's report, together with the editorial changes made in this House, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u191	Under art. 44 has a proposal from the MP Petya Avramova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Metodi Andreev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Maya Manolova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Kancho Filipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 44: Art. 44. (1) The Agency shall record in a public register the persons referred to in Article. 43, para. 1 and 2 at their written request. (2) To the written request under para. 1 shall apply: 1. for the persons referred to in Article 43, para. 1? documents certifying the circumstances under art. 43, para. 1, t. 1 2. for the persons referred to in Article 43, para. 2: (a) documents certifying the circumstances under art. 43, para. 2, p. 3 ssssssssssss, 5sssssssssss, 3sssssssss, 5ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. (b) Declaration under art. 43, para. 2, p. 2. (3) The Agency shall issue to the persons entered in the register certificates for payment of a fee determined by the tariff under art. 75, para. 1. (4) The Agency shall refuse to register persons who do not meet the requirements of art. 43, para. One or two. (5) The certificate of entry in the register or the reasoned written refusal of entry shall be issued by the Executive Director of the Agency under the conditions and within the time limits laid down in the Administrative Procedure Code. (6) The validity of the registration certificate shall be 5 years. (7) Upon expiry of the validity of the certificate of entry in the register, a new certificate of entry shall be issued after presentation of a declaration that there is no change in the circumstances of para. 2 or the relevant documents in the event of a change in the circumstances under para. 2. (8) The refusal to enter the register shall be subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code. (9) The circumstances of art. 43, subject to entry, the order of entry in the register and receipt of information, as well as the conditions and procedures for obtaining qualification under art. 43, para. 1, t. 3 (b) and 3 (c) 2, p. 5 shall be determined by a decree issued by the Minister of Energy and the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u192	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Is there any speeches on the proposed art. 44 according to the importer's text? After the stormy speeches on the previous article, it is now silence. Honourable Members, please vote on the Commission's version of art. 44. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. Article 44 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u193	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 45: Art. 45. The Agency shall remove from the register persons who have received certificates entitled to carry out an energy efficiency test where: 1. stop meeting one of the conditions under art. 43, para. 1 or 2; 2. have submitted false declaration under art. 44, para. 2, p. point (b) is replaced by the following: 3. have violated the requirements of Article 3. 43, para. 4, 5 or 6; 4. have committed systematic violations under this law established with effective criminal decrees; 5. are declared bankrupt or in liquidation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u194	Thank you. Statements under art. 45? I don't see anyone who wants to. Let's move on to the vote. Please, honourable Members, vote art. 45 in the version of the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 1. The proposal shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u195	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 46. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 47. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 48. "Section IІІ" "Check for energy efficiency of heating installations with boilers and air conditioning installations in buildings". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 49.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u196	Thank you. Statements under art. 46, 47, 48 plus the name of Section III and art. 49? I don't see anyone who wants to. Please, honourable Members, we are voting Anblok art. 46, 47, 48, the name of Section III and art. 49. Please vote. Vote 81 MPs: for 80, against none, abstention 1. The proposal of the above Members to the Commission has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u197	Under art. 50 has a proposal from the MPs Metodi Andreyev and group: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50, para. 1 after the words, water heater, to be added, of liquid or solid fuel, and after the words, more than 20kW to add s of natural gas with a single rated power of more than 100 kW for space heating.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Maya Manolova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50, para. 1 after the words, water heater, to be added, of liquid or solid fuel, and after the words, more than 20kW to add s of natural gas with a single rated power of more than 100 kW for space heating.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MPs Delyan Dobrev and group. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 50: Art. 50. (1) A check under this law shall be carried out with heating installations with boilers in buildings with net rated capacity for heating of premises above 20 kW. (2) Depending on the installed capacity and type of energy used, heating installations with boilers shall be subject to a mandatory periodic energy efficiency check once: 1. every 8 years for heating installations with liquid or solid fuel boilers with a single rated power of 20 to 50 kW including natural gas with a single rated power of more than 100 kW including; 2. every 4 years for heating installations with liquid or solid fuel boilers with a single rated power of 50 to 100 kW inclusive; 3. every three years for heating installations with liquid or solid fuel boilers with a single rated power exceeding 100 kW inclusive. (3) The check under para. 2 includes an assessment of: 1. the state and operation of the accessible parts of the buildings heating installations, including water boilers, heat supply management systems and circulators; 2. the useful performance ratio of the water heaters for boilers with a single rated power exceeding 50 kW; 3. dimensioning of the boilers in accordance with the needs of heating the building. (4) The assessment under para. 3, p. 3 shall not be carried out if no changes to the heating system or the requirements concerning the heating of the building have taken place between two checks. (5) The verification of heating installations with boilers shall be carried out during the heating period in operating heating installations with boilers. (6) The first inspection of installed water heaters in new buildings shall be carried out within the scope of the energy efficiency survey of the building after it has been put into service.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u198	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote art. 50. Firstly, I put to the vote the proposal of MP Metodi Andreev and colleagues, which the Commission does not support. Please, honourable Members, we are voting. Vote 81 MPs: 12, against 22, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. We are continuing with the proposal of the National Representative Maya Manolova, which is not supported by the Commission. Please, honourable Members, vote. Vote 77 MPs: 10, Against 19, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the whole text of art. 50 on a proposal from the importer. Please, honourable Members, vote on the text in art. 50. Vote 84 MPs: 82, none, abstention 2. Article 55 in the version of the Commission has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u199	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 51. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 52.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u200	Speeches, honourable colleagues? I don't see anyone who wants to. We vote Anblok Art. 51 and 52 as amended by the importer. Please vote. Vote 77 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u201	Under art. 53 has a proposal from the MP Kancho Filipov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 53 para. 2 to be The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 53.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u202	Statements under art. 53? I don't see anyone who wants to. Honourable Members, we are voting on the proposal of Mr. Filipov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 84 MPs: 10, against 29, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 53 by importer. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u203	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 54. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 55. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 56. "Department IV " Research for energy efficiency of enterprises, industrial systems and systems for external artificial lighting. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section IV.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u204	Statements on the three terms of the 54th, 55th and 56th, plus the name of Section IV? I don't see anyone who wants to. We vote by importer Articles 54, 55 and 56 and the title of Section IV. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u205	Under art. 57 has a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in art. 18, para. 3. Proposal by the MP Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 57: Art. 57. (1) The energy efficiency study of enterprises, industrial systems and external artificial lighting systems aims to identify the specific possibilities for reducing energy consumption and to recommend measures to increase energy efficiency. (2) A mandatory energy efficiency test shall be subject to all: 1. production enterprises which are not small and medium-sized enterprises within the meaning of art. 3 of the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Act; 2. enterprises for the provision of services which are not small and medium-sized enterprises within the meaning of art. 3 of the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Act; 3. industrial systems whose annual energy consumption is more than 3000 MWh; 4. systems for outdoor artificial lighting located in a populated area with population over 20,000 inhabitants. (3) The investigation under para. 1 shall be carried out at least once every 4 years. (4) New investigation under para. 1 shall be carried out on: 1. industrial systems one year after major changes in technological equipment and/or production systems, change of fuel base and the way energy is converted; 2. systems for outdoor artificial lighting one year after changes in the installation (change of lamps, change of lighting schemes and/or power supply) or when the requirements for lighting of lighting are changed. (5) The owners of enterprises, industrial systems and systems for external artificial lighting, which shall be subject to mandatory investigation under para. 2 shall submit to the Agency annually by 31 January a declaration in accordance with a model laid down in the regulation under para. 6. (6) Energy consumption indicators, energy performance of enterprises, industrial systems and systems for external artificial lighting, as well as the conditions and procedures for carrying out energy efficiency audits and evaluation of energy savings shall be determined by a regulation issued by the Minister of Energy and the Minister of Economy. (7) The undertakings under para. 2, p. 1 and 2 and the owners of industrial systems under para. 2, p. 3 applying an energy or environmental management system to be certified by an independent compliance body with European or international standards shall be exempted from mandatory energy efficiency audit requirements, provided that the management system applied by them includes an energy audit of the undertaking or industrial system concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u206	Before I give the floor for debate on the proposed member, I would like to announce that guests in the plenary are students from the University of Veliko Tarnovo. St. Cyril and Methodius. Please give them a round of applause. [[Applause, the MPs welcome the students on the balcony of the plenary.]] Thank you. Please, statements under art. 57? I don't see anyone who wants to. Dear colleagues, we are voting Art. 57 in the version of the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 82 against 1, abstention 1. The proposal shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u207	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 58.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u208	Statements under art. 58? I don't see anyone who wants to. Dear colleagues, we are voting Art. 58 by importer. Vote 82 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u209	Under art. 59 has a proposal from the MP Petya Avramova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Metodi Andreev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 letter (s) and does not support it in the rest. The unsupported part is as follows: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 59 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1, t. 3: ... (b) in point (b) the words "not less than 2 years' shall be replaced by "not less than 3 years' and the words "not less than 3 years' shall be replaced by "not less than 5 years'; (c) in point "in" the words "in" hold a valid certificate for the successful examination of the required qualification for carrying out an energy efficiency study of industrial systems in higher technical schools specialising in the professional fields,,...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 4. Alinea 4 to fall. Proposal from the National Representative Maya Manolova. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 letter (s) and does not support it in the rest. The rest is the same, but for the record, I'll read it: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 59 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1, t. 3: ... (b) in point (b) the words "not less than 2 years' shall be replaced by "not less than 3 years' and the words "not less than 3 years' shall be replaced by "not less than 5 years'; (c) in point "in" the words "in" hold a valid certificate for the successful examination of the required qualification for carrying out an energy efficiency study of industrial systems in higher technical schools specialising in the professional fields,,...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 4. Alinea 4 to fall. Proposal by the MP Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Tasco Ermenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Kancho Filipov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 59, para. 1, t. The word "valid" shall be inserted in point 3 (b) of the word "valid" in point 3 (b) of the word "valid" in point 3 The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 59: Art. 59. (1) The investigation under art. 57, para. 1 and the production of energy savings assessments shall be carried out by persons entered in the register under art. 60, para. 1 which: 1. are traders within the meaning of the Commercial Law or under the law of another Member State of the European Union or of another State of the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation; 2. possess the necessary technical means determined by the ordinance under art. 44, para. 9; 3. have the necessary staff of the energy efficiency consultants who meet the requirements of the ordinance under art. 44, para. 9 and: (a) have completed higher education in the field of technical sciences in vocational fields and specialties, as required by the regulation under art. 44, para. 9, recognised in the Republic of Bulgaria or in another Member State of the European Union, or in another State, a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation or a completed secondary technical education; (b) have an internship in the specialty of at least two years for persons with an educational and qualified degree of Master and not less than three years for persons with an educational and qualification degree of.Bachelor and not less than 6 years for persons with completed secondary and technical education; (c) hold a certificate of successful examination for the acquisition of the necessary qualification for carrying out an energy efficiency audit of industrial systems in higher technical schools specialised in professional fields of (2) The persons under para. 1, including their staff, shall not carry out an energy efficiency audit of the industrial system where they are: 1. designers of the industrial system; 2. participants in the construction and/or operation of the industrial system; 3. participants in the implementation of energy-saving measures in the industrial system. (3) The energy efficiency consultants under para. 1, t. 3 may participate in the teams of no more than two persons under para. 1, t. 1 and under art. 43, para. 1, t. 1. (4) The persons under para. 1 carried out an energy efficiency test of an industrial system, prior to the implementation of the energy saving measures prescribed in the audit, cannot carry out an energy efficiency test to demonstrate the implementation of the prescribed measures, as well as an assessment to demonstrate the levels of energy savings achieved as a result of the implementation of those measures.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u210	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Statements? The usual suspects, Mr. Andreev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u211	Dear colleagues, in art. 59, para. 1, t. 2 We meet again the word......................................................................................................... We just voted in art. 43, para. 1, t. 2 the words.. have the right to be replaced by................................................................................................................... I also propose that we make this editorial amendment here, as we have already voted once.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u212	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. We vote... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u213	We are voting on the proposed version in art. 59, para. 1 in the Commission's version, i.e. 2 the word "supplied" to replace with "supplied" and "supplied."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u214	Mr. Dobrev, let us first vote on Mr. Andreev's proposal, which the Commission rejected, but, anyway, he confirmed as an editorial change.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u215	No, Mr. Andreev's proposal and a group of MPs, and Mrs. Maya Manolova's is regarding other texts, and in this sense we should vote first the rejected proposals, then the editorial amendment of Mr. Andreev, then the editorial amendment. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u216	We vote on the proposal of the MPs Metodi Andreev, Stanislav Ivanov and Kostadin Markov in the part not supported by the Commission. [[Noise and lines.]] We vote on the proposal of the MPs Metodi Andreev, Stanislav Ivanov and Kostadin Markov in the unsupported part of the Commission. 70 MPs voted: 10, against 21, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposal of the MP Maya Manolova in the unsupported part of the Commission, which is the same as Metodi Andreev, Stanislav Ivanov and Kostadin Markov. They voted 72 MPs: 14 against 18 abstentions 40. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of MP Kancho Filipov and a group of MPs, which is also not supported by the Commission. They voted 85 MPs: 9 against 33, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. And now we are voting on the version made by the National Representative Metodi Andreyev in art. 59, para. 1, t. 2 the word "supplied" to be replaced by "supplied." We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Mr. Andreev. Vote 87 MPs: 76 against 4, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u217	Procedure, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u218	Come in, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u219	In order to unify the text with the already adopted editorial amendments I make a procedural proposal in art. 59, para. 1, t. 3 letter "in" after the words "in the professional fields of.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u220	Yeah, we already voted that in the law. I put to the vote the editorial proposal made by the National Representative Delyan Dobrev in order to synchronize with the remaining texts of the law, as presented by the stands. Please vote. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The editorial proposal made by Mr. Delyan Dobrev is accepted. I am now putting the text to the vote in art. 59, according to the Commission report, together with the newly voted editorial changes proposed by Mr. Metodi Andreev and Mr. Delyan Dobrev. Please vote. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 2. The text of art. 59, according to the Commission report, together with the editorial changes made in the Chamber by the MPs Metodi Andreyev and Delyan Dobrev, was adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u221	Under art. 60 has a proposal from the MP Petya Avramova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MPs Metodi Andreev and group. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Maya Manolova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MPs Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MPs Kancho Filipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 60: Art. 60. (1) The Agency shall record in a public register the persons referred to in Article. 59, para. 1 at their written request. (2) To the written request under para. 1 shall apply documents certifying the circumstances of art. 59, para. 1, t. 3. (3) The Agency shall issue to the persons entered in the register certificates for payment of a fee determined by the tariff under art. 75, para. 1. (4) The Agency shall refuse to register persons who do not meet the requirements of art. 59, para. 1. (5) The certificate of entry in the register or the reasoned written refusal of entry shall be issued by the Executive Director of the Agency under the conditions and within the time limits laid down in the Administrative Procedure Code. (6) The validity of the registration certificate shall be 5 years. (7) Upon expiry of the validity of the certificate of entry in the register, a new certificate of entry shall be issued after presentation of a declaration that there is no change in the circumstances of para. 2 or the relevant documents in the event of a change in the circumstances under para. 2. (8) Refusal of entry into the register shall be subject to appeal under the order of the Administrative Code of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u222	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Are there any statements on the read art. 60? I don't see anyone who wants to. Please vote art. 60 in the version of the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u223	Under art. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version of Article 61. 61: Art. 61. The Agency shall remove from the register persons who have received a certificate entitled to carry out an energy efficiency test where: 1. stop meeting one of the conditions under art. 59, para. 1; 2. have violated the requirements of art. 59, para. 2, 3 or 4; 3. have committed systematic violations under this law established with effective criminal decrees; 4. are declared bankrupt or in liquidation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u224	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 61 in the Commission's version. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u225	Under art. 62 The Commission shall support the text of the importer. "Department V "Management of energy consumption ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section V.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u226	Statements? I won't. Please vote art. 62 by importer supported by the Commission and the name of Section V by importer supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u227	Under art. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version of Article 63. 63: Art. 63. (1) The obliged persons under art. 14, para. 4, the owners of buildings under art. 38, para. 1, the owners of enterprises, industrial systems and systems for external artificial lighting under art. 57, para. 2 are required to manage energy efficiency. (2) Energy efficiency management shall be carried out by: 1. organizing the implementation of the programs under art. 12, para. 2, as well as other measures leading to the fulfilment of individual energy savings targets; 2. maintaining databases for monthly production/use by type of energies and users, including dates, prices, quantity and quality of supplied/sold energies and fuels; 3. annual production of energy consumption analyses; 4. evaluation of the implementation of their individual energy savings targets. (3) The obliged persons under art. 14, para. 4 draw up monthly and annual energy balances including purchased and sold energy. (4) The persons under para. 1 submit to the Agency annual reports on energy efficiency management. (5) The accounts under para. 4 contain information on the fulfilment of the requirements of para. 2 and submitted to the Agency no later than 1 March of the year following the reporting year. (6) The obliged persons under art. 14, para. 4 annual by 1 March provide the mayor of the municipality with information on the quantities of the energy sold to the final customers in the territory of the municipality for the previous year. (7) The accounts under para. 4 of the state authorities and of the mayors of municipalities shall be presented to the agency together with the reports under art. 12, para. 5. (8) The accounts under para. 4 shall be drawn up on a template established by the Executive Director of the Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u228	Statements under art. 63? There aren't any. I shall put to the vote art. 63 in the version of the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The text of art. 63 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u229	Under art. 64 The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version of art. 64: Art. 64. For the management of energy efficiency in buildings, state or municipal property to regional or municipal administrations can be established expert advice to assist the activities of district managers or mayors of municipalities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u230	Statements? I won't. We shall vote on the wording of art. 64 in the version of the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 1. The proposal shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u231	"Department VI "Supporting energy efficient services ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VI. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 65.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u232	Statements under the name of Section VI and under art. 65? I don't see anyone who wants to. We vote on the Anbloc title of Section VI by importer, as well as art. 65 by importer. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u233	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 66 and offers the following editing: Art. 66. (1) Energy efficient services shall be carried out on the basis of written contracts concluded with final customers. (2) Energy efficient services shall include the implementation of one or more activities and measures to increase energy efficiency as defined in the ordinance under art. 18, para. 2. (3) To ensure traceability of energy costs and energy savings achieved as a result of the performance of energy efficient services, the persons referred to in art. 14, para. 4 provide with invoices to final customers and information about: 1. current actual prices and really consumed energy; 2. energy consumption by month for the past one-year period compared to energy consumption by month for the previous one-year period; 3. contact details of consumer organisations, energy agencies or other institutions, including Internet addresses, from which information can be obtained about possible measures to increase energy efficiency.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u234	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on art. 66. I don't see anyone who wants to. Vote art. 66 in the version of the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u235	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 67 and offers the following editing: Art. 67. (1) The energy-efficient services may be carried out by natural or legal persons, traders within the meaning of the Commercial Law or within the meaning of legislation of another Member State of the European Union, or of another State, a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation. (2) The persons obliged under art. 14, para. 4 provide energy efficient services or contribute to the Energy Efficiency and Renewables Fund or other financial intermediaries. (3) Where within the scope of energy efficient services under art. 66, para. 2 shall be included in the implementation of activities under art. 36, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 57, para. 1, the persons under para. 1 and 2: 1. perform the activities themselves if they meet the requirements of art. 43, para. 1 or 2 or art. 59, para. 1; 2. assign the implementation of the activities to persons who meet the requirements of art. 43, para. 1 or 2 or art. 59, para. 1. (4) The obliged persons under art. 14, para. 4 jointly with the owners of the means of commercial measurement of energy supplied to final customers may provide as an energy service at competitive prices to ensure traceability of energy costs by end customers of replacement of existing means of commercial measurement with smart measurement and control systems or other technical solutions that provide visual information on: 1. the current energy consumption; 2. the transitional current account; 3. the instantaneous energy load; 4. other necessary information. (5) When determining the value of the energy efficient services provided, account shall be taken of the increase in energy efficiency achieved and the degree of satisfaction of other requirements provided for in the energy service contract. (6) The obliged persons under art. 14, para. 4 jointly with owners of the means of commercial measurement of energy supplied to end-users shall: 1. during the installation of smart measurement systems to consumers to provide appropriate advice and information on the full potential of these systems with regard to the management of reporting and monitoring of energy consumption; 2. ensure the security of smart measurement systems and data transmission; 3. in the process of data transmission to ensure the privacy of end-users, subject to data protection and privacy legislation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u236	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Statements under art. 67? I can't see. Vote art. 67 in the version of the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u237	"Section VII - Availability and accessibility of information'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VII.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u238	Statements? I can't see. We vote on the name of Section VII by importer. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The proposal for the name of the section is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u239	Under art. 68 has a proposal from Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 68 and offers the following editing: Art. 68. (1) In order to ensure accessibility and availability of the information collected under the terms and conditions of this law, the Agency shall establish and maintain a national information system on the state of energy efficiency in the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) In order to ensure accessibility through the system under para. 1 information shall be provided on: 1. the national energy efficiency target; 2. the implementation of activities and measures provided for in the national energy efficiency action plans under art. 5, para. 3, p. 1; 3. the achieved annual energy savings; 4. the state of energy efficiency at national level and by sectors; 5. the acts referred to in art. Art. 4 and art. 5, para. 3, p. 1-5; 6. Programs under Art. 12, para. 2 and provided under art. 12, para. 4 means of implementation; 7. the accounts referred to in art. 63, para. 4; 8. good practices in the field of energy efficiency; 9. persons entered in the registers under art. 44, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 60, para. 1; 10. financial instruments and mechanisms for stimulating projects for providing energy efficient services; 11. opportunities for the participation of financial intermediaries in the financing of measures to improve energy efficiency. (3) In order to ensure availability through the system under para. 1 shall be collected for: 1. the implementation of individual energy savings targets; 2. realized by the debtors under art. 14, para. 4 energy sales to final customers in the previous year; 3. the quantities of production and/or service rendered and value added in the previous year and the energy used for that purpose; 4. the energy efficiency activities and measures implemented; 5. buildings subject to mandatory certification under art. 38, para. 1; 6. heating installations with hot water boilers and air conditioning installations under art. 50, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 51, para. 1; 7. enterprises, industrial systems and external artificial lighting systems subject to mandatory inspection under art. 57, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 8. projects implemented to achieve individual energy savings objectives financed by the Energy Efficiency and Renewable Sources Fund or by other financial intermediaries; 9. other activities related to the implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u240	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. Vote art. 68, as amended by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u241	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 69: Art. 69. (1) The information referred to in art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules 1. the debtors under art. 14, para. 4; 2. the owners of buildings under art. 38, para. 1; 3. the owners of heating installations with hot water boilers and air conditioning installations according to art. 50, para. 1 and under art. 51, para. 1; 4. the owners of enterprises, industrial systems and systems for external artificial lighting under art. 57, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 5. the Executive Director of the Energy Efficiency and Renewable Sources Fund, as well as financial intermediaries; 6. other persons providing energy efficient services. (2) The information referred to in art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 2 and 3 shall be made available to the Agency no later than 1 March of the year following the year of implementation of the relevant activities and measures. (3) The Agency shall ensure the integrity and confidentiality of the information provided privately and/or commercially sensitive in accordance with European Union law. (4) Where the information provided is categorized as classified, all actions relating to its processing and storage, as well as the provision of access to it, shall be carried out under the Classified Information Protection Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u242	Statements under art. 69? There aren't any. Vote art. 69, as amended by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 78 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u243	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 70. "Chapter 4" for increasing energy efficiency. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following wording for the name: Chapter Four. Schemes to promote energy efficiency. Section I supposes mechanisms. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following wording of the name:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u244	Statements? I can't see. We vote Anblok Art. 70 by importer, Chapter 4 by version of the Commission and Section I by version of the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 79 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u245	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 71: Art. 71. (1) To promote energy efficiency schemes and mechanisms may be applied, such as: 1. contracts with guaranteed result; 2. certificates of energy savings; 3. funding from the Energy Efficiency and Renewable Sources Fund or from other financial intermediaries; 4. other national or European support schemes and mechanisms. (2) The schemes and mechanisms for promoting energy efficiency introduced under this law shall be developed and implemented in compliance with State aid requirements. (3) In developing schemes to promote cogeneration, the production of electricity through high-efficiency cogeneration is supported, the efficient use of waste heat to achieve primary energy savings and the possibility of reducing technological costs in the production and transport of heat and taking into account the characteristics of high-efficiency cogeneration. "Department II.. Contracts with guaranteed The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u246	Speeches, honourable colleagues? I don't see anyone who wants to. Vote art. 71 as amended by the Commission and Section II by importer. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u247	Under art. 72 there is a proposal from the MPs Delyan Dobrev and a group which the Commission supports. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 72: Art. 72. (1) The contracts with a guaranteed result (ECO contracts) shall be subject to measures to increase energy efficiency in buildings, enterprises, industrial systems and systems for external artificial lighting, such as the recovery of investments made and the payment of the remuneration due to the contractor shall be carried out at the expense of the energy savings realised. (2) Contracting entities under para. 1 may be final customers, and contractors. The providers of energy efficient services. Contractors shall be persons who are traders within the meaning of the Commercial Law or within the meaning of the legislation of another Member State of the European Union, or of another State, a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation, with an activity involving the performance of services under contracts with a guaranteed result. (3) Contractors under para. 1 may not carry out activities under art. 36 and 37 for the building or under art. 57, para. 1 for the enterprise, industrial system or external artificial lighting system.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u248	Statements under art. 72? I don't see anyone who wants to. Please vote art. 72 as amended by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u249	Under art. 73 has a proposal from the MPs Delyan Dobrev and group. The Commission supports the proposal. Mr. Chairman, I will make a procedural proposal, as our proposed para. 9 states that the obligations of the contracting entities under the ECCO contracts are not debt within the meaning of the Law on Government Debt and the Law on Municipal Debt, but current obligations for consumed energy. After commenting with the Budget Committee, the Ministry of Finance and Mrs. Menda Stoyanova clarified that this is actually a problem in the implementation of one of the directives. In this sense, I withdraw the proposal and please submit the vote to the editorial that I will read without para. 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u250	Please read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u251	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 73: Art. 73. (1) A contract with a guaranteed result shall be concluded after an energy efficiency test carried out and a certificate issued for energy performance certifying the current state of energy consumption in the building, or after an energy efficiency test of the undertaking, the industrial system or the external artificial lighting system, subject to the contract. (2) The contracting entity shall provide the contractor with a summary of the report of the energy efficiency audit carried out on the building, the undertaking, the industrial system or the external artificial lighting system. (3) The contracts with a guaranteed result shall be concluded in writing and shall contain at least: 1. the normalised energy consumption established by an energy efficiency test; 2. a list of the effectiveness measures to be implemented, including the steps to be taken to implement the measures and, where appropriate, the related costs; 3. the guaranteed energy savings, the order and time limits for their establishment following the implementation of the contract measures, as well as provisions for measuring and confirming the energy savings achieved, the guaranteed savings achieved, quality checks and guarantees; 4. obligation to fully implement the measures in the contract and document any changes made during the project; 5. a description of the financial consequences of the project and the distribution of the shares of the two countries in the achieved financial savings; 6. method of financing; 7. method of payment of the remuneration; 8. other clauses, including provisions relating to changes to the framework conditions relating to the content and outcome of the contract, including equivalent requirements for each sub-contract with third parties, as well as detailed information on the obligations of each Contracting Party and penalties for their breach. (4) The performers under art. 72, para. 2 ensure that the service is carried out, in whole or in part, by their own means and/or that they undertake to provide their financing by a third party. (5) The performers under art. 72, para. 2 carry the financial risk, as well as the technical and commercial risk of carrying out the activities and measures provided for in the contract to increase energy efficiency and achieve the result guaranteed by the contract. (6) ESCO Contracts shall ensure that the energy consumption class required for the building is reached under the contract. (7) For buildings of state and/or municipal property which are subject to a contract under art. 72, para. 1, the budgets of the public authorities and municipalities shall be planned and shall provide funds which, for the duration of the contract, correspond to the normalised energy consumption of these buildings. (8) The arrangements for determining the size of the planned under para. 7 funds, as well as the terms and conditions of their payment shall be determined by a decree issued by the Minister of Energy and the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u252	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Statements? Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u253	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposed proposal that colleagues Dobrev, Nenkov, Nikolov and Zhelev made regarding a new para. 9, there may be problems with the State Debt Act. Perhaps it is logical to remove the part concerning the State Debt Act, perhaps it is logical to reject the wording at all.... are not debt............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I'll try to explain why this is about this thing. We, knowing what the state of the building fund of municipalities is, if we let the Municipal Debt Act affect the ECCO contracts and further I will propose for funding from the Energy Efficiency Fund to be in our field, it means limiting the opportunities to invest in energy efficiency in municipalities to 25% of the assets. You know, Mrs. Stoyanova, how's that thing? [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] Therefore, please very much, let's put it this way..The obligations of the contracting entities under the ECCO contracts are not, or do not fall within, the scope of the Law on Municipal Debt.... only this or the wording, which is more correct, but you understand what the point is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u254	I mean, you're proposing an editorial change of para. Nine? [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] The line is Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ermenkov, I agree with you in general. Only we here and say it's not a debt, and say it's not a debt under the Municipal Debt Act, it's a debt. I want you to understand correctly that under the Public Finance Act, under European rules, this is a debt and it cannot be otherwise. Therefore, I suggest that we resolve this in another way, as we have solved it in other cases, for example, when it is taken from the FAG Fund to co-finance a project or advance project financing. Let's say in the State Budget Act in a Transitional provision, as we have done before, and I guarantee that we will do it for 2016. We will offer it at least, and let's say that this debt under the ECCO will not be subject to those 15% restrictions. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] Not at all not to be a debt under the Municipal Debt Act, but not to enter into that 15% limitation, because ultimately the recovery of this debt under the ECCO contracts will come from cost savings. In this sense, it makes sense that it is not in that 15%, but it belongs in the transitional provisions of the State Budget Act and we will do it there. We can't do this here. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u256	Thank you. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u257	Mr. Ermenkov, I suggest that we really agree to withdraw the point, as our editing will not be precise and most likely will not work, but I am firmly convinced that we should make an amendment similar to that which Mrs. Menda Stoyanova mentioned, because even if it is debt, it is ultimately a new debt with a clear vision of how it will be restored and from savings. If we do not do this edit we will find ourselves in a situation where ECCO contracts cannot be implemented in many of the municipalities in Bulgaria because they have already reached the limit of 15%. In order to really unblock the investment in ECCO contracts and projects for energy efficiency of municipalities, where, according to the reports we have, 50% of the energy consumption is only from street lighting, which in a unit of municipalities is replaced, we need to make an urgent change in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u258	Thank you. I can't see a third line. A hole, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u259	I am delighted with the understanding that you are showing and agree that we need to find the right editing, because really duty is duty and whatever we call it, this money is due. I have one request: let us not wait next year in the Budget Act, because we are losing six months after the adoption of the Law in action that could be taken. Either way, the law today will not be able to be passed to the end. It contains transitional and final provisions. If Mrs. Menda Stoyanova does not object, we should look for a version for editing by tomorrow.. Until we get there, and in the Transitional and Final Provisions to include this part, because the financial situation with municipalities is not good, the state budget can hardly afford to finance energy efficiency activities in municipalities. The only way we are looking for is through external investors, the ECCO contracts that can be in this thing, not to waste half a year until the next budget, but to find a way where in the Transitional and Final Provisions of this Law to bring this thing in. Thank you for understanding. Otherwise I agree to withdraw now what is here and we will support Mr. Dobrev's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u260	Thank you. Any other speeches? I can't see. First, I'm going to put to the vote what Mr....
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u261	I've withdrawn al. 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u262	You withdrew and that is to say we are voting for the withdrawal itself, and you agree?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u263	Mr. Chairman, I am the importer of this new para. 9 " I and my colleagues are withdrawing the paragraph, so there is no point in putting it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u264	I get it. Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Vote art. 73, as amended by the Commission, without the withdrawn para. Nine read by you from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u266	Dear colleagues, we are voting Art. 73, except for the withdrawn para. 9. Please vote. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u267	"Department III "Servings for Energy Savings ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 74.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u268	Statements? There aren't any. We vote on the name of Section III Anbloc with the text of art. 74 by importer. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u269	Article 75. Proposal by the MPs Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 75: Art. 75. (1) The certificates of energy savings shall be issued by the Executive Director of the Agency for payment of a fee fixed by a tariff adopted by the Council of Ministers. (2) The certificates of energy savings issued to the debtors under art. 14, para. 4 are used to confirm the implementation of their individual energy savings targets. (3) For the purpose of meeting individual energy savings targets, energy savings certificates may be transferred from: 1. debtor to another debtor under art. 14, para. 4 where the first debtor is in re-execution of its assigned individual energy savings target; 2. non-taxable person to a debtor under art. 14, para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u270	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the editorial for art. 75 by importer made by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 1. Article 75 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u271	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 76. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 77. "Department IV " "Field" "Energy efficiency and renewable sources" The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section IV. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 78.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u272	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for art. 76 and 77, the name of Section IV and the text by importer of art. 78. Vote 81 MPs: for 80, against none, abstention 1. The texts of the importer shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 76 and 77, as well as the proposed name of Section IV and the text of art. 78 accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u273	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 79: Art. 79. (1) The Fund shall manage funds provided for investment projects to increase energy efficiency and renewable energy production projects, according to the priorities set out in the national energy efficiency strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria and in the national energy efficiency action plans. (2) The Fund shall carry out its activities under this law and agreements with donors.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u274	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the edited text of the Commission for art. 79 by importer. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The text of art. 79 on the Commission report has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u275	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 80.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u276	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 80. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The text of the importer for art. 81 has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u277	Article 81. Proposal of the National Representative Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 81: Art. 81. (1) The funds of the fund shall be raised by: 1. donations from international financial institutions, international funds and Bulgarian and foreign natural or legal persons, subject to the provisions of art. 11 of the Law on measures against money laundering and on verification by place of establishment of a lack of tax liability in a Member State of the European Union, or in another State of the Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or in the Swiss Confederation; 2. interest on current accounts or bank deposits of the fund; 3. loans or other financial instruments of a credit nature by international organisations and banks, as well as by natural persons and/or legal persons registered as traders obtained exclusively for the purpose of the fund; 4. installments under art. 21, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 5. other proceeds corresponding to the nature and activity of the fund. (2) The funds of the fund shall be kept in at least three depositories with a license to operate in the territory of the country, designated by competition and/or by the Bulgarian National Bank.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u278	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u279	I'm not sure the BNB can do the job.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u280	Why can't he?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u281	Because she can't, she's not a Depository Bank. Colleagues, I am speaking in relation to the supplement that has been made.................................................................................................................. The Bulgarian National Bank can store state funds. I am not convinced that it can play the role of a bank for payments, as the Energy Efficiency Fund does not keep its money on deposit. This is money that is used for the so-called grants and borrowings for energy efficiency activities. If this money goes to BNB, there is no way and I do not know how it will carry out this business there. I understand the idea of being there so there are no problems, that they disappear somewhere in banks, but it seems to me that the Bulgarian National Bank simply cannot be a bank in which the money of the fund will be placed. Those who are financiers and are more familiar with the issue, I will ask them to take an attitude not to record things in the Law, which simply contradict the BNB Act for example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u282	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u283	Mr. Ermenkov, you said yourself that we will not be able, unfortunately, to complete the bill today. We will certainly check your thesis and we can react before we finish the bill. That shouldn't be a problem for me. You know that other funds are stored in the BNB, such as means for decommissioning the units of NPP "Kozloduy" under the RAO Fund and so on. You're right, we'll check again for greater security. I propose that, at this stage, we vote on the text as supported by the Commission. Subsequently, if necessary, we will return to this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u284	Any other lines? I won't. A hole? [[Reply of MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] Okay. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for art. 81, according to her report. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The text of the Commission for art. 81, according to her report, has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u285	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 82: Art. 82. (1) The funds of the fund shall be spent on: 1. reimbursable funding of projects for development of energy efficiency; 2. reimbursable funding of activities and projects for the production of energy from renewable sources; 3. Guarantee activity for loans by financial and credit institutions granted under projects under point 3. 1 and 2; 4. Priority funding of projects for: (a) implementing measures to increase energy efficiency in final energy consumption; (b) the use of renewable energy in the final consumption of energy; 5. maintenance of the fund according to the annual budget for revenue and expenditure approved by the Management Board and by the General Assembly of donors. (2) The consumers of electricity, heat and natural gas in buildings under floor property regime, established legal entities supplies of owners, under the Law on Floor Property Management, may apply for funding from the fund of projects to increase energy efficiency and projects for building installations using renewable sources.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-23.u286	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text edited by the Commission of the importer of art. 82. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. The text of art. 82 on the Commission report was adopted unanimously. Messages for Parliamentary Control. On 24 April 2015, Friday, at 11:00 p.m., they will reply: - Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev to a question by the National Representative Volen Siderov; - Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov to a question from the National Representative Maya Manolova and one question from the MPs Chavdar Georgiev and Philip Popov; - the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to seven questions from the MPs Kalina Balabanova, Borislav Iglev Two questions, Mariana Boyadjieva and Stoyan Mirchev, Dora Yankova, Willi Lilkov and Miglena Alexandrova, and to two privies from the MPs Boyka Marinska and Ivan Penkov Ivanov; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev to three questions from the MPs Volen Siderov, Petar Slavov and Manol Genov; - the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to three questions from the MPs Lyubomir Vladimirov, Petar Slavov and Stanislav Stanilov; - The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev addressed three questions from the MPs Jayhan Ibryamov, Lyubomir Vladimirov and Willi Lilkov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova, to two questions from the MPs Stefan Kenov and Georgi Andonov and Daniela Saveklieva, and to four questions with a written answer from the MPs Evgeni Stoev, who has two questions, Ivan Kirilov Ivanov, Kalina Balabanov and Nikolay Alexandrov; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to two questions from the National Representative Kornelia Marinova; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to five questions with a written answer from the MPs Stefani Mihailova, Krasimir Yankov, two questions, Kalina Balabanova and Chavdar Georgiev. Due to participation in the meeting of the Economic and Financial Affairs Council in Latvia, the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to pre-planned commitments in the Parliamentary Control Meeting, the Minister for Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva will not participate. Due to a joint meeting of the Governments of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Romania in the Parliamentary Control meeting, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov, Deputy Prime Minister of Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of Interior Rumiana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister of Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski, Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva, Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukar, Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov, Minister of Health Petar Moskov, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Ljiljana Pavlova and Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova. Questions.. 18. Questions about the period, number of questions and questions. Necessary parliamentary time 3 hours and 27 minutes. Tomorrow we continue with the first vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
