ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u1	There is a quorum, I am opening the plenary session. Honourable Members of Parliament, according to the National Assembly's adopted Work Programme for 7 and 8 May 2015, as first item for Friday, 8 May 2015, is intended to discuss and vote: PROJECT FOR A DECLARATION ON THE 70-YEAR-FRAID FROM THE CAPITULATION OF THE NATE GERMANY IN THE SECOND WORLD WAR AND ON THE DAY OF EUROPOLIA. The Committee on Foreign Affairs is the importer. A report came in from the Foreign Policy Committee. Mrs. Grozdanova, please fill us in on the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the Project Declaration for marking the Day of Winning over Fascism during the Second World War and the Day of Europe - 9 May, No 554-03-4, submitted by Miho Dimitrov Mihov and a group of MPs on 22 April 2015; Project for a Declaration to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the victory over fascism, No 554-03-6, submitted by Mihail Raykov Mikov and a group of MPs on 28 April 2015; Project for a Declaration to celebrate the Day of Victory over Hitlerism in the Second World War - 9 May, No 554-03-7, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 29 April 2015; Project for a Declaration on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the victory over Hitlerfasism, No 554-03-10, submitted by Velizar Penchev on 7 May 2015. At meetings held on 29 April and 7 May 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee examined those draft declarations. On 29 April 2015, the members of the Foreign Policy Committee generally approved the proposed draft declaration submitted by the MP Miho Mihov. They agreed to discuss and propose a joint draft declaration to the National Assembly. Discussion and voting were held separately on the proposed texts of those involved in the meeting, on the basis of which the Foreign Policy Committee formulated a Declaration on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the surrender of Nazi Germany in World War II and on the occasion of Europe's Day. At the meeting on 7 May 2015, the Commission further discussed proposals made concerning the draft declarations submitted by Mihail Mikov, Volen Siderov and Velizar Enchev respectively. On the basis of the debate, taking into account the approved text of the declaration on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the surrender of Nazi Germany in World War II and on the occasion of Europe Day, as well as the adopted proposals for additions thereto, the Committee on Foreign Policy, with 15................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The delegation of power on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the surrender of Nazi Germany in World War II and on the occasion of Europe Day Marking the 70th anniversary of the surrender of Nazi Germany in World War II on 9 May 1945; - recalling Robert Schumann's declaration of 9 May 1950 proclaiming the idea of a united Europe; - stressing the importance of these two events in history, opening the way for a community of solidarity and understanding between the peoples of Europe; - stressing that one of the main objectives of the European Union is the prevention of war conflicts and crimes against humanity; - expressing determination to preserve peace and prevent a new division between the peoples of Europe; - recalling the contribution of the Bulgarian people to the rescue of the Jewish community in Bulgaria, National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria: 1. Pays tribute to the memory of the fallen and victims of World War II and recognition of the countries that won the victory over Nazi Germany. 2. He expressed his gratitude to the Bulgarian warriors who fought in World War II. 3. He condemns all forms of xenophobia, extremism, neophasism and violence by calling for abstention from actions leading to new dividing lines in Europe. 4. Confirms his desire for unity, peace and prosperity in Europe and his determination to continue working for mutual respect, shared responsibility, freedom and security of all Bulgarian citizens. 5. Expresses support for the processes leading to unification in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. The debate is open. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to participate in it to give a sign. [[Replications from the MPs Mihail Mikov and Yanaki Stoilov.]] On behalf of the importers? As an item on the agenda, it is written that the common declaration "the one presented to us by the Committee on Foreign Policy, but there is no obstacle to the presentation of the declarations on behalf of the importers as well. Do you want to be represented in this order? Then, in the order of the importers over time, the declaration of the ABB Parliamentary Group. Here you go, Mr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! On May 9, 1945, Germany's surrender ended World War II in Europe. It involves more than 60 countries, directly affecting 80% of the Earth's population. Military action is conducted in the territory of 40 countries, approximately 57 million people are killed, most of them in the prime of their life forces. The Bulgarian people contributed dignifiedly to the defeat of fascism. We will forever owe tribute and gratitude to the Bulgarian soldiers, officers and officers who died in the final phase of World War II on the battlefields of Yugoslavia, Hungary and Austria. In the Pantheon of Bulgarian military glory will forever remain the memory of the heroism of our warriors at Nis and Stracin, Kumanovo and Strazhin, at Drava and Moore. On May 9, 1950, in Paris, exactly five years after the victory of the anti-hitler coalition that saved Europe from mortal danger, French Foreign Minister Robert Schumann stated in his historic declaration: the Europe will not be built suddenly or according to a single plan. It will be built through concrete achievements, which create solidarity in the first place......................... this date has been chosen to celebrate Europe's Day. It is no coincidence that on May 9th we celebrate today and Victory Day and Europe Day. The two events are inextricably linked. What Europe is, the European Union owes largely to victory over fascism. This victory is the solid foundation on which European unity is being carried out and developed. May 9th is a day of peace, a necessary condition for the unification of Europe to take place. The most important message on this day is that we can successfully face new challenges if we combine efforts based on a common understanding of the need to prevent military conflicts, resolve disputes exclusively through peaceful means and build a sustainable environment of cooperation and security. In this regard, the ABC Parliamentary Group proposed a Declaration, which was subsequently actively supplemented by the declarations of the parliamentary groups of BSP left Bulgaria and Ataka, who also made a valuable contribution to offering a joint Declaration of the National Assembly. To smooth out some language inaccuracies and to recognise some historical realities we propose two small amendments to the Declaration. First, in the title of the Declaration, we propose to be the Day of Victory over Nazi Germany and not the Capitulation. However, victory is a more general concept, which includes all sides, even those who have not been there at the moment. And second, in the operative, we suggest that the first point should sound like this: "She pays tribute to the memory of the fallen and victims of World War II and recognition of the countries, as well as the resistance movements in Bulgaria and Europe, which won the victory over Nazi Germany. The reasons for the latter are due to the fact that across Europe the various resistance movements of the entire political spectrum have successfully fought against Nazism and we must pay tribute to them too.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u5	Do you have the text written? Thank you. The next time submitted to the National Assembly Declaration is by the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. Mr. Mikov will present to us the Declaration and its motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! The proposed BSP Declaration project left Bulgaria has some differences that I will try to present and focus on them. In fact, the previous Professor. Kyuchukov, Dr. Kyuchukov, outlined the direction in which Bulgaria's contribution to the victory on 9 May is given a true focus. I believe that the Declaration and we present both in its motives and in its content, a major focus related to the contribution of anti-fascist resistance and not only in Bulgaria, but the anti-fascist resistance in Europe, with the contribution of Bulgarian citizens who did not accept our participation in the Nazi axis as an undisputed fact. Victims given by the anti-fascist resistance of Bulgarians in Bulgaria and in the resistance movements throughout Europe should be honored as people who have also contributed to the victory. The other accent in our Declaration is about memory. The May 9th 70th anniversary of the victory, from the surrender of Nazi Germany, is also related to other monuments and memory. Recently and in our country, and certainly elsewhere in Europe, the desecration of monuments reminding of this dark period of mankind's history has become some kind of political fashion, which is silently tolerated by some or other politicians. The 70th anniversary is a good occasion for the Bulgarian Parliament to express its attitude towards such vandalism actions in desecrating monuments. Otherwise, closing the eyes of parliament before the desecration of the monuments can trigger a process that will cause irreparable damage to historical memory, whether it be the monuments of anti-fascists, the monuments of the participants in World War II or monuments that highlight any other events. The other important issue is Bulgaria's contribution. It is not only about participation in the second phase of the war, but it is also about the victims that Bulgaria has given so that it can remain within its borders as they are today so that the gene can. Stoychev marching in the march of victory in the Red Square. Behind this act of May 9, 1945 is the blood and death of thousands of Bulgarian soldiers who participated in the victory over the Nazi army. In general, we support the idea of adopting such a Declaration. However, if we run away from the historical truth, from the clear and clear assessments of memory, from a strong position on the defilement of the monuments, we do not want to finally recognise the Bulgarian participation in the anti-fascist resistance, then this Declaration will have, above all, a ritual character which will not give either to society or to other peoples that sign which is required to give the National Assembly. Finally, we also propose that there should be a call for other parliaments and other peoples in the text. In many places in Europe and in the world today neo-fascist movements are revived. The Bulgarian Parliament must have a very clear position on this issue because in addition to the memory, because apart from the marking ritual, apart from the formal tribute, there must also be a very serious warning, which only takes an act and occasion from the 70th anniversary, but is aimed primarily at the present and future of Europe and the world. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP left Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u7	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. The Declaration is to be presented on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ataka. Mr. Chukolov will do that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u8	Dear colleagues, on May 9th tomorrow, we celebrate 70 years from Victory Day. It's Victory Day, which, if it wasn't, there wouldn't be Europe Day! That is why we from the National Assembly have submitted a Declaration to the National Assembly, which I will now offer to your attention. As you know, the most damaged continent in World War II was Europe. On the North, South America, Australia, other areas even one bomb doesn't fall, one building hasn't collapsed. Europe suffers the greatest sacrifices. Ninety percent of the important battles, 90% of the victims from Nazi Germany happened on the Eastern Front. When we talk about World War II, it must be clear that yes, the United States is involved, but they are giving 417 thousand victims in this war. The Soviet army, the Soviet Union, has made over 20 million casualties. It is therefore fair and correct in the Declaration of the Bulgarian National Assembly in an adequate way to pay tribute to the people who have really fought and fought in this war. We should also bear in mind something that many of you in this room will sound heretic. Yes, I know many of the parties in this House are talking about Euro-Atlantic orientation, NATO, Europe, the United States and so on, but we must also be aware of the dual role played by the then and now our future Euro-Atlantic partners USA, England, even France in this war. They waited until the last moment to see what would happen on the Eastern Front and then joined, until 1944 they joined. It must also be clear that this war was launched, set on fire by Nazi Germany, yes, by Hitler. But not to underestimate the role that huge American and English companies played in Hitler's creation, in directing his vision of the East towards the Soviet Union. Nobody wants to talk about it today. But these are historical facts, and they need to be said and mentioned. History must be read not by the winners. Yes, unfortunately it is. History must be read accurately, clearly and truthfully. Since World War I, American companies, such as General Motors, Standard Oil, Dupont and others have been partners of.G Farben Industries and have actually created Hitler's chemical and military industry. That should also be clear. All the time they encourage Nazi Germany to turn their eyes to the East. When Hitleranxing certain territories, they pretend to declare war on Nazi Germany, but what are they doing fighting during that time? No, they don't fight. They're just waiting to see this huge conflict, whose goal is the fall of the state created by Stalin. I'm saying from Stalin, not Lenin. When we presented this Declaration here, and in committees, there was an opportunity for debate to take place in the couloirs, then I heard a lot of opinions. It was like we were accepting a November 7th affidavit. No, it's not November 7th, it's May 9th for Victory Day. If you ask us, we are absolutely sure to say this "November 7th is a bad date. There an Orthodox state falls and creates something that actually suppresses millions and millions of Russian citizens. So as a summary, what do we see today? We see a desire in Bulgaria, in Europe, in the US and in other countries to minimize the role of the Soviet Union, the Soviet army in this war. Soon I had read a poll that was conducted in the United States of America, where with a large majority, over 2/3 of American citizens believe that the United States actually won the war. The Soviet Union, Russia, fought there, there was some kind of accident, some sort of clash. This replacement is wrong for us by "Attack." This replacement, in fact, does not help either those who replace or those for whose account it is. And last but not least, you know what the situation in Bulgaria is now - NATO is grouping troops around Russia, it is talking about sharpening the international situation, it is talking about how Russia was an aggressor and that is why we will not go on 9 May, I mean the leaders of some countries in Europe. Do you think 70 years after this huge conflict is right? Is this opposition right? To say, "I will not go to the Red Square, and I will not honor this great sacrifice which the Soviet people gave then!" For what purpose is that? Don't you realize that in this way, I am referring specifically to the behaviour of Rosen Plevneliev and his statement, in this way you are actually taking the side of Nazi Germany, taking the side of those who were then fighting and who were given these sacrifices by not honoring them. Ten years ago, on the 60th anniversary, many European leaders were in Russia. Now what, the story has changed so much in 10 years that we now have the right not to honor these victims?! Oh, yeah? This is wrong for us from Ataka. I'm going to read you the Declaration we're offering you specifically. During the debate, we will make proposals for changes to this joint declaration, which we will work out and I hope you will accept them. DECLARATION to celebrate the day of victory over Hitlerism in World War II. Forty-third National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria, noting the 70th anniversary of the victory over Nazi Germany and Hitler's surrender on 9 May 1945, recalling the crucial role of the Soviet Army in this victory and saving the European peoples from the Nazi danger, evaluating, above all, the value of the more than 20 million victims of the Russian people, without which there would be today's free single Europe DECLARES: 1. He expressed his gratitude to the countries of the Anti-Hitler Coalition, first of all to the then Soviet Union for releasing Europe from Nazism. 2. He pays tribute to the 20 million dead Russian warriors, as well as to everyone who gave their lives for the victory over Hitlerism. 3. Stresses the fact that despite Bulgaria's belonging to the Rome axis, Berlin, Tokyo, no Bulgarian soldier has fought on the Eastern Front against the Liberation of Europe from the Soviet Army, and after 8 September 1944, when Bulgaria declared war on Hitlerist Germany, the Bulgarian army participated in the fighting against Hitler and gave more than 30 000 victims. 4. He condemns the revival of Nazism and fascism in any form that we are currently seeing in the administration of Ukraine and the Baltic Republics, as well as the stimulation of similar phenomena by leading countries in the world, such as the United States. 5. Condemns the manifestations of intolerance to Orthodoxy, as well as to any traditional religion, manifestations of racism, bulgarophobia and russophobia, both of any xenophobia and extremism, also condemns the desecration of monuments associated with World War II. 6. Condemned the Bulgarian President Rosen Plevneliev's refusal to take part in the celebration of 9 May 1945 in Moscow and described this refusal as an embarrassment to the memory of the millions of victims of World War II. 7. Confirms the aspiration for self-determination of the European peoples and condemns the dual standard of decision-making at the highest level in the European Union. And in conclusion, honourable Members, to point out something that I could not see in the General Declaration, but we believe it is important that it gets there. The BSP colleagues mentioned the role of the anti-fascist movement in Bulgaria. Although I have heard from colleagues from other parliamentary groups that there was no fascism in Bulgaria, yet we must mention the role of the anti-fascist movement in Bulgaria. But we must emphasise the fact that Bulgaria is actually involved in the fight against Hitlerist Germany in this war. And as I said at point three that Bulgaria actually gave over 30 000 victims in the period after 8 September 1944. If you ask a medium-intelligent, well-educated, even informed person from Western Europe, from Russia today, from other countries, whose country Bulgaria was on during World War II, they will tell you the country of Germany. Everyone remembers the photos of King Boris III with Hitler, these are meetings that were not one and two. With such a declaration, with the inclusion of such words in our joint declaration we will somehow make this message that Bulgaria has actually sacrificed in this war that Bulgaria has fought against Nazi Germany. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. We expect it to be presented to us by Mr. Velizar Enchev and his declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! On May 9, 1945, Hitlerist Germany surrendered and ended World War II in Europe. Thanks to the armed forces of the anti-fascist coalition led by the United States of America, Britain and the Soviet Union, the civilized world achieved a historic victory over Hitlerophasism. Seven decades after the liberation of the brown plague, the world has been divided into its assessments of this magnificent event, and in some countries not only the contribution of European anti-fascists is denied, but the spirit of neonazism and xenophobia is revived again. Unfortunately, in our country too, attempts are being made to rewrite history by denigrating the anti-fascist struggle in the kingdom of Bulgaria and our participation in the final phase of World War II of the country of the Anti-hitlerist coalition. But while in Europe, the participants in the armed resistance against Nazism and fascism are revered as national heroes, the right-wing forces in Bulgaria declare the Bulgarian partisans and political prisoners as anti-state elements. Unfortunately, this is an official policy of all the right-wing parties, first of all the Union of Democratic Forces and GERB party. For the democratic-thinking Bulgarians it is unacceptable to belittle the Fatherland War and the more than 30 thousand victims of the First Bulgarian Army, thanks to which Bulgaria washed the stain of its participation in the Triple Pact. It is outrageous, honourable colleagues on the right, that neither the President nor the Prime Minister nor the military minister honored the 70th anniversary of the Sremska, Dravska and Murska operations of the First Bulgarian Army, in which our warriors showed wonders of bravery, defended the military honor and, most importantly, had a decisive contribution to the defeat of the Hitlerist troops in Serbia, Macedonia, Croatia, Hungary and Austria. We worship the memory of 20 million Soviet citizens, who gave their lives for this magnificent victory without which European civilization today would be at the feet of Nazi barbarians. Without the crucial contribution of the Soviet army, without its victories in the Stalingrad and the Kursa battles, World War II would have had a completely different outcome. At the same time, the role of the United States of America and Britain for the end of the war with the opening of the Second Front in June 1944 is extremely important. The MPs reprimand the refusal of Head of State Rosen Plevneliev to attend the Parade of Victory on 9 May 2015 in Moscow. By this act President Plevneliev undermines the victims of Hitlerophasism and denies the Bulgarian contribution to the defeat of the Third Reich. We believe that the Bulgarian people appreciate the merit of the anti-hitler coalition and the resistance movements in Europe during World War II and will not allow the forgery of history to impose their anti-human views. And to be constructive, after reading my declaration, I suggest adjusting the item. 2 of the Declaration, I stress, t. 2 of the Declaration adopted in the Foreign Commission yesterday, which reads: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria expresses appreciation for the Bulgarian warriors who fought in the Second World War. You understand, without being historians, that the categories here are completely blurry and, I would say, ideological. I propose a new point to read: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria expresses its appreciation for the Bulgarian warriors who fought in the Homeland War. If you refuse from the right, ladies and gentlemen, from the Reformation bloc in the first place, from the GERB Party, from the Patriotic Front, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which you voted against yesterday in the Commission, if you refuse this amendment, Bulgaria will become the first country in the world to deny itself, its parliament is denying its Patriotic War, in which, as I said, we have given 30 thousand victims! Remember that the blood of these Bulgarian officers and soldiers protected not only the dignity of our country! The blood of the officers and soldiers of the First Bulgarian Army protected the borders of Bulgaria and this should never be forgotten when we should note the contribution of the Great Powers to the preservation of these borders: in the first place the role of the Soviet Union, the Paris Peace Conference! With the shed blood of the Bulgarian warriors, whom you do not wish to honor during the War of the Fatherland, with this shed blood they washed the disgrace of our alliance with the Third Reich, concluded by these same political forces, to which you today not only sympathize, but claim to be their successors. You do not want, honourable Members from the right, from the GERB party, I stress that this is to be known by the Bulgarian citizens, from the Reformation bloc, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, to call this war a State War, to say it directly, however strange for you, because of your sympathies for Boris III's pro-German policy, which imposed the repressive Law on the protection of the state and the anti-Jewish Law on the protection of the nation. In fact, you undermine not only the memory today, you deny not only the blood of the Bulgarian soldiers and officers in the Homeland War, but, as the colleagues of the BSP and the Party of Ataka said in their statements, today you undermine the memory of the fallen Bulgarian anti-fascists in World War II! I would like to ask you, according to your vicious logic, that the Bulgarian anti-fascists were bandits: you on the right, gentlemen, by this vicious logic do you believe that the fallen by Sofia British Major Frank Thompson is also a bandit, as he is a participant in the Bulgarian partisan movement, brutally shot in violation of international law, military law by the Bulgarian gendarmerie in 1944? You on the right would you dare to tell the British ambassador in Sofia tomorrow that Major Thompson does not deserve our respect and is a bandit? I know the answer to my question is one thing, and it's a definite no, you wouldn't dare. You will not dare, despite your views, which are too related to the views of neo-Nazi organizations in Bulgaria. The Bulgarian people should know that if you, I stress once again, refuse to put in this Declaration the term of the Fatherland War, which must be replaced by the Second World War, you join the defeated forces in the Second World War, forces struck by the anti-fascist coalition, in the first place the Soviet Union and its army, the United States of America and Britain. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u11	The debate is open. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to participate in it to participate. Mr. Enchev, I'm asking you for the proposal. 2 in writing. Do you have it edited? Mr. Yanaki Stoilov has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u12	Madam President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is good that today the Bulgarian National Assembly is discussing the topic of victory over fascism and the end of World War II. It is good that he is trying to adopt a declaration, but I must, at the outset, regret that the text proposed by the Committee on Foreign Policy reduces Bulgaria's role in this war, does not fully and objectively represent the historical events and thus largely distinguishes today's political importance of such an act. Questions aren't just historical. We can ask ourselves: is there fascism today? And the answer can be divided into several parts: when today, who? This includes those who organize and participate in pro-Nazi or pro-fascist events in different places in Europe; those who somewhere in the East in Europe are preparing lists of opponents of the current power and calling for them to be persecuted. Where's all this going? We can see it in large Western European countries. We can see it in Eastern Europe. It is enough to point out one of the most eloquent examples: in the Odessa Union House, where fleeing, suffocating people were killed. These are all the modern faces of what Europe experienced 70 years ago. Bulgaria started the war on one side and ended it on the other. This is an occasion for more serious lessons for the service and enthusiasm with which many of the leaders in Bulgaria in the 20th century took some positions, and they themselves or those who had to change them and punish them have turned them 180 degrees. Today there are plenty of reasons to ask ourselves: is this political mentality outlived? Bulgaria, despite its participation in the final phase of World War II of the so-called Peoples of Europe, was not recognised as a co-authoring country, precisely because it joined the Tripartite Pact because it announced a symbolic war that led to thousands of bombarded peoples in Sofia and several other cities in Bulgaria. Because the Civil War in Bulgaria, which began in 1923, continued with the next generation, which grew in it and in which the division was no less. Because this war has really become a homeland war for Bulgaria as well. Because even in the proclamation calling for anti-fascist resistance, this organization in its programme determines what the tasks and national importance of the resistance are. Bulgaria, as a result of the anti-fascist resistance and the Bulgarian army, which fought in Yugoslavia, in Hungary, managed to make sure that we did not experience another national catastrophe from the territory of Bulgaria was not taken away. That must also be a lesson, and so many of the people who were going to the front went under the slogan: The road to the homeland passes through Berlin! I ask: why do you not support the proposals we have made? And I'm going to repeat them one more time: The National Assembly, respecting the role of anti-fascist resistance in Bulgaria. 2: He expressed appreciation for the Bulgarian warriors, for the Bulgarian and European citizens who participated in World War II against fascism. Finally: The National Assembly is declared for the protection and against the desecration of anti-fascist and military monuments. Is there anything controversial about these events, or in Bulgaria will some claim that there was anti-fascist resistance, but there was no fascism? What are these people fighting against, both for the legal and the illegal opposition, and for those who opposed the government with certain forms of authority that were allowed by then, and those who did it more categorically and decisively, taking much greater risks to their lives even?! We therefore insist that these proposals be included in the declaration text. Without their approval by the National Assembly, we ourselves would have become accomplices in maiming Bulgarian history, in reducing the Bulgarian participation. But I will also try to answer the question: who and why does not support these proposals? They will probably not be supported by successors of pro-fascist organizations, those who are publicly or unspokenly believed to be in some way continuing the case of parties and organizations, which Europe and Bulgaria, precisely today, are condemning because of these manifestations. They may not be accepted because you do not want to admit that the Bulgarian Socialist Party is the party of anti-fascist resistance. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Perhaps you do not want to support them, because many of the people went to the front not only because they as debt bear the protection of the Fatherland and as people of the Bulgarian Army are obliged and convinced that they should always fight on the side of their country. But there was another major part that went as volunteers or mobilized and who in their personal journals.. we are not talking about any other questionable historical evidence, they write that after we defeat fascism, we will build the socialist order in Bulgaria. Perhaps that is the other reason that disturbs you, because you cannot overcome today's division between the then allies in the war. The fact that they separated very quickly with the release of the iron curtain in Europe does not mean to deny the role of the allies who earlier or later joined this war and contributed to the victory over fascism. Perhaps many of you curtsy towards the position of the Bulgarian President. I don't want to qualify her because nothing worthy of her can be said. People from all ethnic groups participated in this resistance and it cannot be exhausted only with the rescue of the Jewish community in Bulgaria, and this rescue was possible not only because of the efforts of Bulgarian politicians and parliamentarians.... some of them had previously voted on the Law on the Protection of the Nation, and this for them is a kind of political rehabilitation, but this was possible thanks to the tolerance of the entire Bulgarian people, of this resistance, of the Bulgarian Church, of many movements which were in their own way united in this process. Why are you shy? There is a group here that, I think, should express its empathy for the case of these Bulgarian anti-fascist Turks who, along with their fellows, participated in this process, or are you already descendants of something else entirely?! Why would even former communists possibly want to admit these historical things? And I wouldn't be surprised that there might even be people of late active fighters against fascism. [[Applause from BSP LB]] who probably need to distance themselves from their previous biographies as far away as possible. Let us overcome all these complexes because when the truth is at the fore, when human dignity and political accuracy are criteria, we will not be mistaken and we will not be separated from our people. I would also like to find out what the position of the Bulgarian government is, as Mrs. Kuneva is here. Does the Bulgarian government have any bearing on these things at all, will it assist parliament in forming a solid national position? That's still possible. Therefore, my call to you is to be worthy heirs of those who have stopped fascism, who have restored national dignity and who must now see the continuors of these efforts. It may sound pathetic, and I apologize for not transforming into our official language part of what has become the anthem of this war: "Pust my fury, nobility" Vizpaet, how free you are! The Idët War People's, The holy war! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] We can sing it somewhere else. I invite you tomorrow, on May 9th, to the Monument of the Soviet Army and to the Brotherly Mound, so there you can sing. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] But this war was won not only because of the great leaders and the strong military units, it was won because for many of the European peoples it was a people war. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u13	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u14	Mrs. Chairman! I see that today, instead of a day of unification and union, is once again becoming a day of political squabble. It always happens when politicians write history and historians pretend to be politicians. [[Noise and lines.]] To say one thing about the Pussy Fury, the nobleman, a really wonderful song. Just to remind you, it was written for World War I. [[Laughter and applause from GERB.]] Like the great Russian hymn, Agapkin's Forgiveness of Slav is written about the Bulgarian and Serbian soldiers of the Balkan War, for this Slavic woman he sings. Let me remind you that Bulgaria did not send any soldier to the Eastern Front that Bulgaria had never declared war on the Soviet Union that it was perhaps costing the lives of King Boris III when he was asked in Wolfshance to send 12 infantry divisions to 500 thousand people against the Eastern Front. Let's talk to the real facts. What does fascism mean? Excuse me, fascism is a purely Italian term. You can only talk about fascism in Italy. We can talk about Nazism. What does Nazism mean? German Workers National Socialist Party. That's the abbreviation of Nazism. And why should we not pay tribute today to those who really resisted Nazism in Bulgaria, Leon Tajer, who blew up the warehouses in Ruse of the German army, or the Rilo-Pirin squad that attacked German troops near Zabokrek? But what army do you think is involved in the war against Nazi Germany? Which army? Any new army? No, it's still the same army that has always protected Bulgaria. Who's in the war against Germany? Kingdom of Bulgaria. Who declared war on Germany on September 2nd? Konstantin Muraviev. The Bulgarian troops withdrew from Macedonia and Yugoslavia with fighting. They sacrificed, some were taken prisoner. Shall we say that Spisarevsky is a Nazi? Do you think Dimitar Spisarevski is a Nazi after defending the sky over Sofia? [[Applause from PF.]] He performed a ram on an American flying fortress. Is he a Nazi or a Bulgarian patriot defending Sophiaians from the bombs? Otherwise, I agree with whose bombs. Here, in this National Assembly is the declaration of the war of America and England with the proclamations of Hurrah! But patriotism is not a political value to go from one political party to another. Patriotism is a given, in my opinion, to every political party. Because the Bulgarian army served officers who had the Iron Cross for bravery and order Slava. Should we deny their case?! Indeed, the Bulgarian army has performed a feat. Indeed, without its participation, perhaps the Yugoslav border would have passed 5 km from Sofia. But please, let's really handle the facts. As far as the term "capitulation" is concerned, I am about being a "Capitulation Day" because surrendering the historical facts say that there have been two capitulations. One was carried out on the western front, on 7 May, in the presence of Russian General Tsusobatov, without the knowledge of Generalissimus Stalin, and then he disappeared without a trace. The second is the true surrender on May 9th. So let's really honor the memory of the millions of Russians, Ukrainians, said, Uzbeks, Belarusians who died in this war, the six million Poles, the millions of Americans. [[(Replyes from BSP LB: Not true, not true.]] How is that not true? Share. Why shouldn't we honor the Kur rainbow and the Battle of the Guadalcanal? Isn't Australia bombed by Japanese aviation?! It's unification day, people! It's unification day! Come to your senses! We don't need to spend dividing lines in society. Let's remember the feat of our ancestors, the paratroopers who attacked Strajin and Straqin, the people of Drava who endured the attack of the Second SS tank army. She deliberately attacked the Bulgarian positions because she thought they were weaker, but they endured. And let's really not run dividing lines. Let's unite around a declaration. No one denies the severed guerrilla heads. No one denies the murdered hawks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u15	We'll see about the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u16	They're part of a story that should bring us together. The spilled blood should unite the nation, the spilled on the left, the shed on the right, as the United States of America joined together after the Civil War there, the North and the South. This war gave birth to the American nation 600,000 dead. So on this day let's talk less about hate, about dividing lines, and about unification! [[Applause from GERB, RB, BDZ and PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u17	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines? First line, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Maybe you should at least withdraw some of the applause. I regret to take up the parliamentary group's time because what Mr. Rosen Petrov is saying is part of this particular attempt at revisionism in quotes. In the 1990s, a statement about what he said about the authorship of the song of lyrics and music appeared in some of the media. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]] Then, after one of these publications, there is a court case, which finds that the accusations of plagiarism, I quote, are not in line with reality and demean the honor and dignity, the reputation of the song's author, the Holy War. That is why this fact is established. It's just a detail. I wouldn't stand up to replicate you, but since you're a man who's had a long time to form public opinion and through the media, be more serious about spreading one or another gossip. And secondly, no one denies the merit of the Bulgarian military, who during the entire period of World War II fought on behalf of Bulgaria. In the text we offer, no one lowers the memory of these characters. So if you're talking about unification, it means giving a political assessment of the events without lowering the role of the Bulgarian army in this process. Because politicians make decisions and others do. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u19	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Second line? I won't. Mr. Petrov, would you like to use the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u20	I apologize if I was wrong about the Holy War, but I think it's still from World War I, and it's a belogvardian song. Isn't that right? Let's be honest with history.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u21	Colleagues, let's not get carried away in the Russian song art during World War II.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u22	Yes, I do plead not to engage in Russian song art because it is interesting to a narrow range of Russian scientists. Really, let's be together on this day, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u23	Well, back up the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u24	Yeah, why not?! No one denies it, only we need to be aware of the historical facts. There was no fascism in Bulgaria. Bulgaria was simply an ally of Nazi Germany. The only fascist movement in Bulgaria that can claim such movement is the People-social movement of Prof. Tsankov. You know very well his social base, it was 3,000 people. Don't do that!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u25	Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u26	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I will return to the Declaration we are discussing today. I will not artificially call for a national union to not argue on this date and at the same time to stir in all the historical wounds of Bulgaria; nor will I discuss songs and dances of the peoples to lower songs with which millions have died with them in their mouths. Shame on you! Regarding the General Declaration submitted by the Foreign Commission and the National Assembly is about to adopt. Honourable Members, this Declaration, as I said in my previous speech, has reduced the role of the state, a winner in all this conflict, namely the Soviet Union. If you look at this declaration, you can see in the title "World War II and Europe Day." Then we read the first sentence of the second world war, the seventy-year anniversary of surrender, which, as we said, is an incorrect word, and then Robert Schuman, a united Europe, the peoples of Europe, the European unification, preventing a new division of the peoples of Europe. Once it is mentioned World War II, the Bulgarian wars are nice that we have mentioned them quite shyly, then again there will be no dividing lines in Europe, unification in Europe, prosperity in Europe. Is this a Declaration confirming the Euro-Atlantic focus of Bulgaria, as you say? Or is this a declaration that we actually honor this great anniversary with? As some of the previous speakers said, this is really becoming a statement of a protocol, as much as there is something to note, to pull over the number of the National Assembly has made a declaration. I understand perfectly, I saw it with my own eyes when I presented the proposal of the Attack Party in the Foreign Affairs Commission. Those who stood before me, no matter what GERB, DPS, the Patriotic Front, the Reforming Block, were all abstentions, I abstain from all the proposals that we made, for the historical truth that you all well know, here in this House, to be mentioned in this declaration. Madam President, I will read the proposals of the Attack Party for a change in the joint declaration, then I will give them to you to put them to the vote. At the beginning of the Declaration after the first indent, create a new dash with the following content: In reminiscent of the crucial role of the Soviet Army in this victory and saving the European peoples from the Nazi danger. In this way, we point out the historical truth that the huge loss of the Soviet people actually helped win World War II. There's no doubt about that, is there? Point one to acquire the following type: "1." Pays tribute to the memory of the 20 million dead Soviet citizens and victims of World War II, and recognition to the countries that won the victory over Nazi Germany. Point two to acquire the following type: "2." Stresses the fact that despite Bulgaria's belonging to the Rome axis, Berlin, Tokyo, no Bulgarian soldier has fought on the Eastern Front against the liberators of Europe from the Soviet army, and after 8 September 1944, when Bulgaria declared war on Hitlerist Germany, the Bulgarian army participated in the fighting against Hitler and gave more than 30 thousand victims. We mention that the Bulgarian soldier did not participate in the Eastern Front as if if he had been ordered to participate, do not be illusioned about it. Point three: after the word "extremism" we put a comma and add the word "russo You are monitoring the information flow in Bulgaria enough and you know that at the moment russophobia is becoming some kind of urban fashion. Let's say it in modern English to go to the Monument of the Soviet Army and scratch something. There were candidates for MPs from one of the parliamentary political forces who launched the campaign by going to the Monument of the Soviet Army and scratching something. The police have come to arrest them, of course, they are referring to their immunity, which they have as a candidate the MPs are raging in the media, and they are launching their campaign. See what an original way to launch your campaign to scratch a monument, to say that Russia wants to somehow hold the Orthodox peoples in submission through the Holy Orthodoxy. It's still a form of russophobia. We are, of course, against this, and therefore insist that this declaration should also be included in the word "Russian." We create a new point six with the following content: It's six. He condemns the Bulgarian President Rosen Plevneliev's refusal to take part in the celebration of 9 May in Moscow and defines this refusal as an embarrassment to the memory of the millions of victims of the Second World War. Many friends in social networks and people with whom I talk tell me: "Wait, right Rosen Plevneliev should not go to Moscow. Right! There meet worthy men who honor decent men. At this point we want to reprimand the behaviour of our President. My fellow Members, I know how you will vote in this House, and I know what kind of MPs I am up against, what political groups I have already seen in the Foreign Commission. In the towers you will say: "Yes, you say the right things, but you will abstain. But ask yourself: these twenty million victims that the Soviet army gave if they had decided to abstain when they got their border back? They reached the border where she was before Germany attacked them. If they had stopped there and abstained, would there be Europe Day now? What do you think? Would they be gathering in Brussels now presidents or would Brussels be some kind of German province? What do you think? Come on, ask yourself this question and vote this way.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. The word is Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u28	Madam President! Colleagues, I was provoked to speak out of two tosses just a few moments ago. The participants in the anti-fascist resistance were called the "Mandrajis." On this occasion, I would like to say that with their refusal, which is expected to be seen shortly, with their refusal on the right side of the Chamber to recognise the Bulgarian anti-fascist resistance, GERB and the Reformation bloc will actually stand on the side of the pro-hitlerist political forces, which 74 years ago in this Chamber brought Bulgaria into the Trilateral Pact, then announced the so-called Symvoic War. Dear colleagues on the right, I would like to remind you that if today you do not support the proposals made by the BSP, the Ataka and mine for the Homeland War, you will also deny the Bulgarian bourgeois opposition in the face of Petko Stainov, Atanas Burov and Nikola Petkov, who in those military years, in this Chamber, in your places, have declared themselves against the disastrous policy for binding the kingdom of Bulgaria with Nazi Germany, fascist Italy and Imperial Japan. And to find out how anti-European the Bulgarian right is, I want to tell you that in Bulgaria's neighbouring Serbia and Greece, and in the further Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Norway, Italy, France and Belgium, I am not talking about the conservative parties, I am not denying my anti-fascist resistance. And most importantly, it does not allow itself to show sympathy for the pro-German governments in its countries during World War II, which you uncover passively and actively do. In Rome, in Paris and in Brussels, these right-wing parties, apropo, members of the European People's Party, of which you are also a member, report as national heroes the Italian, French and Belgian partisans, while in Sofia GERB and the Reformation bloc call the Bulgarian partisans, as I have just heard, Thank God I couldn't hear the word bandits. On this occasion, I would like to ask you: Would you call the bandit and the colonel of the Belgian Army, the hero of Belgium Todor Angelov of Kyustendil, who directs you to read on Wikipedia, and I stress that he is leading a terrorist group composed entirely of Jews? Are you going to call him and the Jewish terrorists, the Mandraji and the bandits? No, you wouldn't. You won't have the guts to do that! Your courage is enough to call the people who participated in the Home War as partisans and as assistant commanders in the First Bulgarian Army. Would you dare to call "Mandradzija" Colonel Zhelyo Demirevski if you refuse to replace World War II with the Homeland War, who, as a colonel, as commander of the company, performed a great feat with his warriors in the first phase of the Homeland War? Or perhaps the paratroopers who are smashing around Stracin Esseus division, also according to your right-wing standards and criteria are............. since they were commanded by communists, assistant commanders in the First Bulgarian Army. I repeat, as the fate of this declaration, unfortunately, is in the hands of your voices...... the Reformation Block and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I ask you, after these strong, heavy words for you, but true words, to support the editing of point three, which I have just introduced to Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva, which reads: "We bow to the memory of the Bulgarian warriors who died in the Bulgarian War." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u29	Are there any other colleagues willing to take the floor, or should we focus on voting? Mr. Metodi Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u30	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have a proposal to enter as an editorial amendment to the Declaration, which was proposed by the Commission, because the historical fact is that the real act of surrender was signed on 8 May 1945 with the forces of the anti-hitler coalition. It is known that by explicit order of Joseph Visarionovich Stalin on 9 May, an Act was signed separately between Germany and the Soviet Union. I believe that this Declaration should reflect the historical truth, and it is that the act of complete and unconditional surrender of Nazi Germany was signed on 8 May 1945, and later, when Robert Schuman proclaimed his idea and Declaration to Vienna and Europe, this is actually the hand that Europe handed to the then empire built by the Soviet Union. That is, Europe then lends its hand to uniting the whole of Europe without ideological differences and borders. To be united, we must reflect in this Declaration the historical truth, and it is she that we all know. That's why I'm proposing to you. By marking the 70th anniversary of the surrender of Nazi Germany in World War II on May 8, 1945,................................................................................................................................................................... [[Single applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u31	Mr. Chukolov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u32	Madam President, my procedure is this: to extend the time for the work of the National Assembly to the adoption of this point, which we are currently discussing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u33	We have a follow-up job, Mr. Chukolov. Then we have all day parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u34	I know this thing, but put it to the vote. That's my procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u35	Is there a reverse opinion? Mr. Chukolov proposed extending the time to work for the National Assembly today until the vote on this Declaration. Colleagues, we then have parliamentary control, so an implicit solution is contained in our programme. A reverse opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u36	Madam President, honourable Members, many things have been said so far. Declarations have been read, debate continues. I do not think it is rational to repeat ourselves and harm our planned work in the National Assembly. I'm against extension of working hours and procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u37	Either way, we should close the debate and vote on this point in order to move on to the next ones. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 125 MPs: 37, against 53, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. Again, this is an offer contained in our schedule for today, Mr. Chukolov. [[Reply from MP Desislav Chukolov.]] There is no time for parliamentary control. Whenever you want to say with your proposal that we are also entering the time of control something that we have done and is a parliamentary practice, whenever the work on our legislative part needs to be completed. I ask that we be gathered in our speeches so that time remains for control, as many Fridays have not been held for objective reasons. To speak, Mr. Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u38	Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, to declare that the Reformation bloc will support the Declaration in the proposed by the Foreign Commission type by supporting the whole and the edit proposed by Mr. Andreev, because even the National Assembly of Bulgaria must comply with the astronomical truth. There are things that are beyond our will in this world, and part of them is the moment of rising and setting the sun over Europe. We maintain this Declaration because it is a step towards a common reading of the worst moments of our European and national history. A general reading that is lacking and which has been lacking for a long time weighs on the Bulgarian society and until it is overcome will continue to weigh and cause irreparable damage. As a matter of fact, this Declaration is a modest step, but it is in the right direction. I'm saying why she's modest. It is modest because it does not concern the comprehensive topic of political violence, which is leading in the history of Bulgaria for 103 years, from 1886, from the forced removal of the legal Bulgarian monarch from his throne until 1989 and the so-called "great trip" the forcible rename and banishment of a huge part of the Bulgarian Turks. One hundred and three years in Bulgaria are marked above all by various severe forms of political violence. And when, on such an important subject, as the moment between the dictatorship of the period 1934 and the totalitarian regime of the period 1947 and 1989, we do not mention political violence, it is a retreat from the general reading of historical truth. But this retreat is not scary, because we have to start at small paces, and this Declaration contains a sufficient step. It seeks unity of the Bulgarian Parliament and Bulgarian society on the basis of the principles enshrined in the unification of Europe, and they are: recognition of violence; rejection of violence; strong protection of democracy; strong protection of the right of national self-determination of the peoples and their choice of their own path by democratic means. So implicitly in this Declaration, the great topic of political violence, the great theme of democracy and the great theme of Bulgaria's national independence are affected in one sufficient way, I say again, as a first step way. Thus, the Bulgarian Parliament and any political power that supports this Declaration will make its move towards a national unification around the historical truth a step that yesterday's Soviet Union, Russia today and their fifth and sixth colonies in Bulgaria and in other Eastern European countries refuse to make and thus hinder the national union of Bulgaria. Because they are silent when they want us to praise the Red Army in a declaration of the Bulgarian Parliament, I will definitely refuse to do so if we do not mention the Katyn Forest, ladies and gentlemen. I will absolutely refuse to do so unless we mention the sadistic silent observation of the Warsaw Uprising by the Red Army for three months the most embarrassing individual point in the history of the Red Army of the many shameful points. I will absolutely refuse if we do not mention the pogroms in Bulgaria in the weeks after 9 September 1944, if we do not mention the destruction of the Goryan Movement, if we do not mention the smear of the Berlin uprising, of the Hungarian uprising and of the Prague spring. That is when you offer these points, because some of them are not from Bulgarian history, then I will applaud you to include the heroic role of the Red Army in World War II. Let's put everything on the table. I want to see you do it and then go get your money from the Russian Embassy! [[Applause from RB, single applause from GERB.]] There must also be something about the fate of Bulgarian anti-fascists, ladies and gentlemen. I'm glad you're concerned about her, and I'm glad you want them to be mentioned. Let us mention in the declaration Nikola Petkov! I'm glad you mentioned Burov. He died in prison. I am glad that you mentioned, although without the specific name, Nikola Mushanov was killed in prison by a criminal who was deliberately released for this purpose. We can go on forever. But the truth is that not thanks to the right, but thanks to the left-hand side of this hall Bulgaria cannot achieve unification around the historical truth and its national tragedy. So let us at least support what little is offered us, for it is worthy! [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u39	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. For a replica.. Yanaki Stoilov. Colleagues, before that, a message. At 10.30 am, the meeting with representatives from all parliamentary groups on the occasion of initiated amendments to the Constitution was scheduled to begin in the Mirror Hall. I declare that it will begin after the vote on the Declaration that we are discussing is over.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u40	Mr. Kanev, the thesis on national agreement, or if you want a national union, was raised by BSP as early as 1990. Then your predecessors and your party were one of those who rejected it. They started their election campaign with a map full of skulls. Skulls we can look for a lot. You know some of them who they belong to and where they are. I'm not calling for that. I'm not embarrassed, there were voices from your committee to talk about the Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact. However, they did not mention the Munich agreements. So history can take it back, we can take it back to the period you're talking about. But we are talking here about certain events that you have no right to miss and reverse, because when we talk about anti-fascist resistance in Bulgaria, it cannot be denied because of what the regime was before or after. And as for your accusations, I expected the chairman to react. You have allowed yourself one statement, looking at the left side of the room and turning to it that its political positions are the result of some financial relationship with certain embassies. Is this how you build your career? Is this how you serve and lacquer? [[Applause from BSP LB.]] I hope that you will drop these charges because they are disgraceful and above all to you who say them. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u41	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Kanev? You won't use it. You're ordering a line to Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u42	Dear Mr. Andreev, Mr. Kanev! I appeal to you: let us not change the date of surrender! The common fact is on May 9th. If we accept it in Bulgaria on 8 May, we will embarrass ourselves in front of the whole world, really, I am telling you directly. May 9th as a symbol of national agreement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u43	Will you use the backrest now, Mr. Kanev? No. The word has God's Zablyanov. I don't see any other requests for speeches. Mr. Ermenkov, did you agree with Mr. Zablyanov to state your position? All right, here you go, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u44	Madam President, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I would like an extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u45	You're gonna have to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u46	Dear colleagues! It's amazing when historical, single events are handed over to them modern sound and interpretation. And when that happens with such heat, with such emotion and with such disrespectful statements as Mr. Kanev recently made, things become even more unusual. It's about the great victory in World War II, which, as we all know in this room, has not been won by Private Ryan. We must not involve artistic and filmmaking following the years of divided Europe serving ideological propaganda in the two blocs that have emerged as a result of victory in today's debate. At least because it's an attempt to mutilate an interpretation of what was and what happened. As a result of this war, Europe has been destroyed. This war was set on fire by fascism. The first to point out fascism as a future arsonist of wars was Bulgarian Georgi Dimitrov, the character from Leipzig. And there's no reason to deny him. I do not comment on any later political activity. The first politician in Europe to point out fascism as a threat to the future of Europe and who was recognised as fighting Fascism not only from left-wing political parties in the 1930s in Europe, there is no reason for us to be ashamed of this fact. There is no reason for the Declaration to remove the Bulgarian interbrigadists fighting in the 1930s against Franco's fascist regime in Spain. Because Frankism in Spain survived World War II and remained a semi-fascist regime in Europe, supported by geopolitical opposition. In general, the issue of today's attitude towards fascism is, I think, the key issue of this Declaration, of today's attitude towards fascism. Fascism has not passed a historical age! Fascism is a political ideology shared by different circles and movements. Our colleagues in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are particularly sensitive on the subject of xenophobia, on the subject of attitude towards different. But these questions all find their peak expression in a manic, fascist ideology that denies the right to exist on a racial basis. There is no other ideology that has appeared and reached such political peaks that has won the largest country at the time in Europe, which has built the most complex one and I will say an effectively commanded war machine and which has trampled all European peoples with its boot. That's why the Red Army isn't an invader! The Red Army is a liberator to the peoples of Europe! And the monuments of this army stand her way from Moscow and Leningrad to Berlin! And there is no reason for this historical truth, which is obvious, which everyone who has travelled in these European cities has had the opportunity to see, to be denied. I would also like to point out another circumstance in our proposals, which were made and the motive to make them. Surprisingly, the absence in the proposed draft specific text highlights the role of the anti-hitler coalition for victory. There cannot be a Declaration marked on May 9th, of course I will not comment on Mr. Schumann's Declaration. I doubt any of you believe that it has the same value, but I do not find it appropriate to be in one document, at least on this 70th anniversary. But ignoring the role of the anti-hitler coalition means strengthening today's global opposition. I don't know if we're aware of that. In the years of World War II, a coalition was built, which may be the coalition of the future, and we, as a parliament in a small country, should be aware of that, because when the three great ones met in Tehran, Yalta and Potsdam, they respected each other and our modern concept of Joseph Stalin, Winston Churchill and Franklin Roosevelt had nothing to do with the actual and actual relations between the leaders of the anti-hitler coalition. And surprisingly, they have no place in this Declaration either. Finally, we have also noted the need for the parliaments in Europe to turn to them in order to have a clear position, not because of something else, but because of the current advance of fascism in Europe. In Odessa, people were burned, set on fire by fascists... Silence. I'd like to highlight something. Our public opinion cannot accept the understanding that we have saved the representatives of a nation from something we claim to have been democratic. From whom were the Jews saved in Bulgaria, since the regime was not fascist, excuse Boris III? By whom? From the Law on the Protection of the Nation, as it was said, by the Law on the Protection of the State, two legal documents that turn the then kingdom of Bulgaria from a liberal constitutional monarchy turn it into a semi-fascist regime. This is the truth and the truth about the civil war in Bulgaria and about the guerrilla movement, which at that moment is an expression of the moods of progressive people in our society. That's why the guerrillas have a place in the Declaration. And there is no way to come to that common understanding when some of the colleagues believe that Boris III's regime was democratic, not fascist. [[Applause from BSP left Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u47	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. I don't see any other eligible MPs. The debate is closed, we're going to vote. Please, the Quaestors, invite the Members of the House, there are many proposals made. We will hold the votes on the text as they have been made, not during the MPs, according to their taking the floor, so that we do not miss some of the proposals. In the name of the Declaration, which the Commission's proposal reads:..Declaration on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the surrender of Nazi Germany in World War II and on the occasion of the Day of Europe...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] Mr. Zablyanov, you did not state specific... [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] They are in conflict with other suggestions of yours, which Mr. Yanaki Stoilov gave for editing. 2 and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u48	They complement each other. [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u49	Okay. Mr. Kuchukov's proposal for editing the name of the Declaration reads: "On the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the surrender of Nazi Germany, we should record the Day of Victory over Nazi Germany in World War II. This is Mr. Kuchukov's proposal. Please vote. Vote 172 MPs: 68 against 16, abstention 88. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u50	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I ask for a re-vote, as not all of my fellow Members back there have been able to vote. I ask for the support of this proposal, as this is the most neutral. We mark the Day of Victory. We don't talk about when he capitulated, who he capitulated, who he capitulated to. It is generally acknowledged that Victory Day is May 9th.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u51	It's a re-vote. Vote 168 MPs: 65 against 14, abstention 89. The offer is not accepted. The next, in the first indent, reads: "The 70th anniversary of the surrender on 9 May 1945. " Mr. Metodi Andreev suggests that instead of the [[(Radio.) Loud noise and lines on the left.)]] We vote. Colleagues, I don't understand what the debate in the left sector is about, since yesterday the Lantag of Berlin celebrates the Day of May 8th. [[Noise and lines on the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u52	He doesn't celebrate, he scores.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u53	140 MPs voted: 57 against 69, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. After the first indent in the Declaration, Mr. Chukolov proposed a second indent, which reads so.. I read the text literally:.. At the beginning of the Declaration, after the first indent a new indent with the following content:.. As a reminder of the crucial role of the Soviet army for this victory and the rescue of the European peoples from the Nazi danger. The editorial proposal is: "Remembering the crucial role of the Soviet army in this victory and saving the European peoples from the Nazi danger." We vote on Mr. Chukolov's proposal. Vote 166 MPs: 57 against 76, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. There's a proposal for the second indent. The first one is Mr. Yanaki Stoilov, who offers in a new indent, which sounds like: "As he respects the role of anti-fascist resistance in Bulgaria." We vote on Mr. Yanaki Stoilov's proposal. They voted 165 MPs: 64, against 54, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Valeri Zablyanov's proposal for a new indent in the article with the following content: "By emphasizing the role of the victory of the Soviet Union, the US and the UK." We vote on Mr. Valerie Jablyanov's proposal. They voted 165 MPs: 62, against 43, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the operative and the individual points in the Declaration. The first proposal is Mr. Kuchukov's. He proposes in t. 1, after the text:...and recognition to the countries that won the victory over Nazi Germany. We are voting on Mr. Kuchukov's proposal. Vote 166 MPs: 62, against 16, abstention 88. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Velizar Enchev offers a new item. 2 with the following content: The National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria expresses its gratitude to the Bulgarian warriors who fought in the Homeland War. We vote on Mr. Velizar Enchev's proposal. Vote 155 MPs: 42, against 66, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. There's a proposal for editing. 1 of the Attack Party, where they propose at the beginning of the Declaration after the first indent a new indent with the following content:..Remembering the crucial role of the Soviet army in this victory and saving the European peoples from the Nazi danger.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u54	We've already voted on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u55	Did we vote on it? In the same edit? So I have two texts in two places. Let's get to the point. 1 in the operative, the proposal of "Attacka" which reads: "Indulges in the memory of the 20 million citizens who died and victims of World War II, and recognition to the countries who won the victory over Nazi Germany." We are voting on this proposal for an amendment to this paragraph. 1 in the pleadings the proposal belongs to the colleagues from "Attack". They voted 161 MPs: 54, against 49, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. A proposal by the Party of Ataka. 2 to acquire the following species: "2." Stresses the fact that in spite of Bulgaria's belonging to the Axis of Rome, Berlin, Tokyo, no Bulgarian soldier has fought on the Eastern Front against the liberators of Europe from the Soviet army, and after 8 September 1944, when Bulgaria declared war Hitlerist Germany, the Bulgarian army participated in the fighting against Hitler and gave more than 30 thousand victims. We are voting on the proposal by the "Attack". Vote 158 MPs: 55 against 47, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal of the Party of Ataka is in point. 3 After the word "extremism", to put a comma and add the word "russo".
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u56	There are others...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u57	There are others, but I'm already taking them into groups, because otherwise I'm gonna jump over something. Ataka's proposal is in point. 3 After the word "extremism" a comma is placed and added to the word "Russian" is added. We vote! They voted 124 MPs: 15 against 66, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. The latest proposal of the group of "Attack" is to create a new item. 6 with the following content: It's six. Condemned the Bulgarian President Rosen Plevneliev's refusal to take part in the celebration of 9 May in Moscow and described this refusal as an embarrassment to the memory of the millions of victims of World War II. We vote! They voted 159 MPs: 45, against 77, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. So far, we have voted on Mr. Kuchukov's proposals, Mr. Velizar Enchev's and Mr. Ataka's proposals. We have more proposals from the BSP Parliamentary Group left Bulgaria, made by Mr. Yanaki Stoilov and Mr. Valeri Zhablyanov. [[(Reply from BSP left Bulgaria:]] Mr. Yanaki Stoilov proposes a t. 2 to acquire the following version: "2." He expressed his gratitude to the Bulgarian warriors, to the Bulgarian and European citizens who participated in World War II against fascism. We are voting for the version of this. Two proposed by Mr. Yanaki Stoilov. They voted 152 MPs: for 60, against 49, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Ermenkov will propose a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u58	Madam President, honourable Members! Probably not everyone voted, so please reschedule something that I think is important to Bulgaria and it is important for us as a unique country, being an ally of Germany, to participate in the victory parade, something that is due precisely to these anti-fascists, who then became assistant commanders in the Bulgarian army, and participated in the battles, to give them their recognition. I ask you very much to vote on this, because otherwise we will become unique for a second time denying the anti-Fashism that has made us equal to the rest of us who have fought against Germany. Thank you. [[Voices from BSP LB: "Bravo, Tasco! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u59	Revoting! Vote 158 MPs: 60 against 67, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. A proposal has been made by Mr. Yanaki Stoilov for a new item. 6: It's six. It is declared for the protection and against the desecration of anti-fascist and military monuments. We vote on Mr. Stoilov's proposal. They voted 158 MPs: 52, against 26, abstentioned 80. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I hope you are aware of the importance of this vote, yes, to prevent the desecration of monuments in the case of anti-fascist and military monuments. For me, this applies to every monument. [[GERB lines.]] The reverse vote means that you are encouraging precisely these actions and they will come back in some way that we do not want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u61	It's a re-vote. They voted 165 MPs: 55 against 36, abstention 74. The offer is not accepted. And a final proposal for a new point for Mr. Jablyanov to read: He calls on the parliaments of European countries, together with defending national interests, not to allow violence and a new division of Europe. We vote on Mr. Zablyanov's proposal. Vote 157 MPs: 44, against 45, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the draft declaration as presented to us in the Foreign Commission report. We are voting on the joint text of the Declaration on the Foreign Commission report. They voted 145 MPs: for 141, against 4, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB, the Reformation Bloc, the Patriotic Front and the Bulgarian Democratic Center. He's shouting, "Bravo" by GERB.]] Negative vote. Here you go, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! I voted against it because with today's formal Declaration the National Assembly shows a lack of respect for history and political courage in front of it; because this Declaration ignores the contribution of anti-fascist resistance to the Homeland War and the memory of the thousands of Bulgarian participants in it, whose blood is preserved the borders of Bulgaria; because this underestimates the conclusions and lessons learned from the largest carnage in the history of humanity with tens of millions of victims on all continents. [[Part of the MPs from the parliamentary groups of GERB, the Reformation Bloc, the Patriotic Front leave the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u63	Colleagues, there's no call for a break. Please, no movement in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u64	Because a parliament that encourages the desecration of monuments defiles itself! And this is proven, including by the way you are leaving today's session. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u65	I'm calling a break at 11.15. At 11:15, Parliamentary control begins. I invite colleagues from the parliamentary groups at 11.15 in the Mirror Hall to those who are relevant to the subject of the Constitution. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u66	Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 30 April 2015 to 7 May 2015: 1. A question was received from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Willi Lilkov to Ivaylo Moskovski, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications about the possibility of building an additional bridge on the Danube River and the stage of preparation for the implementation of the tunnel under the peak of Shipka. The reply should be made in writing by 21 May 2015. 2. There has been a question from the MP Petar Slavov to Rumyana Bachvarova.. Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of Interior, on the policy of the Ministry of Interior in terms of ensuring the safety of movement on the repaired sections of motorways and prevention and relief of congestion. Responses should be made in plenary on 15 May 2015. 3. There has been a question by the MPs Ivan Stankov and Georgi Kuchukov to Todor Panev about the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science for determining the criteria for selection of academic staff in the higher schools and scientific institutes in Bulgaria. The reply should be made in plenary on 15 May 2015. Total number of questions Written answers: - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the National Representative Evgeni Stoev; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the MP Evgeni Stoev; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Evgeni Stoev; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Evgeni Stoev; - from the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev to a question from the National Representative Evgeni Stoev; - from the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to three questions from the National Representative Evgeni Stoev; by the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on three issues by the National Representative Evgeni Stoev; - from the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev to a question from the National Representative Evgeni Stoev; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Evgeni Stoev; - from the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to a question from the National Representative Kalina Balabanova; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Kalina Balabanova; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question from the MPs Kalina Balabanov and Nikolay Alexandrov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Kalina Balabanova; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Kalina Balabanov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to two questions from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreev; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreyev; - from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreev; - by the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - by the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin to two questions from the MP Petar Kanev; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the National Representative Petar Kanev; - from the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to a question from the National Representative Petar Kanev; - from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Christian Mitev; - from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Christian Mitev; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - by the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Kristian Vigenin; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Mariana Boyadzhieva; - from the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to a question from the National Representative Mariana Boyadjieva; - from the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to a question from the MPs Mariana Boyadjieva and Stoyan Mirchev; - from the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Dimitar Delchev; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Dimitar Delchev; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Dimitar Delchev; - from the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Boris Yachev; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - from the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - from the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to a question by the National Representative Ivan Penkov Ivanov; - from the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Stefani Mihailova; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Katya Popova; - from the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to a question from the National Representative Ivan Slavov; - from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva to a question from the MPs Tsveta Karayancheva and Daniela Daritkova; - from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - from the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Vladimirov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - from the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Kiril Tsochev; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Ruchen Riza; - from the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to a question from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva to a question from the MPs Ivan Valkov and Dimitar Boychev; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question from the National Representative Ivan Kirilov Ivanov. We're moving on to parliamentary control. On behalf of the political party's parliamentary group, Atakas has the word Ilian Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u67	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, Mr. Minister! Let us congratulate and pay our respects to our guests Russian citizens, veterans of World War II: Mikhail Ivanovich Stahanov, Yuri Ivanovich Dobicin and Vladimir Georgievich Krasnogorski. [[The National Representatives of the House of Ataka are standing up and applauding the guests of the balcony of the Chamber.]] I invite the MPs and all journalists to the Club of the National Representative in 15 minutes, where the Vice-President of the National Assembly and the National Representative from Ataka (Mr. Yavor Notev) will present them with honorary plaques.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u68	Thank you, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u69	Colleagues, just a few days ago, on St. George's Day, on the so-called Parad of the Bulgarian Army, we saw a very sad picture. Unfortunately, what we have been repeating for years from Ataka that Bulgaria does not have armed forces, with an army, proved to be a fact both on 6 May and in the Defence Minister's Report, which was presented to the Advisory Council for National Security with the President. Unfortunately, we have to admit that according to today's government, the Bulgarian Army's Land Forces do not have the necessary capacity to preserve the country's territorial integrity. By the middle of this year the Bulgarian aviation will most likely be grounded. In the so-called army, we have two planes that can't even be repaired. Navy, whose fleet doesn't have offensive equipment, rockets. Unfortunately, our so-called "flottilia" today can only be used as fishing boats or floating restaurants. I say it with great regret. [[GERB's line.]] On the so-called "Parad" on 6 May we saw what is actually the final result of our country's participation in NATO a single helicopter, of course, Soviet production and 10 buses, which carry the Bulgarian servicemen. We from Ataka ask: are these the benefits of our membership in the Alliance, for which we gave billions of levs in the form of membership imports; in the form of expenses for our military contingents in Iraq, in Afghanistan; in foreign wars in which we did not pursue the Bulgarian national interest, but the foreign one? And today I am told that these were our values, our civilization choices. I'm sorry, but the choice of the Bulgarian is not in the murder of a million people in Iraq, of 500,000 children in Iraq. We, unfortunately, were involved in this. Those aren't our values. Our values are Orthodox. And although today's government perfectly knows that Bulgaria does not really have armed forces, another blow to the destruction of the Bulgarian army is being prepared by the Defence Minister Mr. Nenchev, who just a few days ago said that the Ministry of Defence intends to remove the entire Soviet equipment under the pretext that it was operationally incompatible with NATO-any of armed forces. However, we at the attack want to ask a rhetorical question: is Poland not a member of NATO? Everyone can check and see that Poland currently has about 250 tanks of Soviet production T-72 "Jaguar" which Minister Nenchev wants to remove today from Bulgarian arms. Poland, as a NATO member, also has MiG-29 fighter aircraft, which today's government wants to take down from our armed forces. Poland has a number of other systems that use them and does not intend to remove them from arms. Yes, the goal is to destroy the Bulgarian army, one BGN 4 billion from the Bulgarian taxpayer to be spent as a third hand American armament and all this money to be paid by the poorest citizens of the European Union. Just six months ago, and in the previous National Assembly, we have submitted a proposal to increase the Bulgarian pensions. You all say, "There is no money." Yes, you don't have money for the Bulgarian pensioners, but apparently you have $4 billion for an old American armament. And when we talk about Poland, let us not forget that Poland is not the only NATO member state in which there is still Soviet weapons. Similar is the situation in countries such as Croatia, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia; all those countries behind the Iron Curtain and were in the Warsaw Treaty. Mr. Nenchev and today's government, of course, pass with the thesis that we were too dependent on Soviet weapons. Well, well, when you spend five billion on an old American armament, aren't we gonna be addicted again? In other words, what do you propose to the Bulgarian people to take out five billion levs and change one dependence on another? We at Ataka have told you: let us revive Bulgaria's Military Industrial Complex according to the example of neighbouring Romania, which today produces major battle tanks, infantry war machines, anti-missile complexes and whatnot. If we do this, instead of spending these 4 billion dollars on old American armaments, let us put them into a state-owned military complex that will first open thousands of jobs; secondly, the state will earn billions, billions of dollars, as it has won in bad communism; and thirdly, we will gain partial independence in terms of equipment in our Armed Forces, because this State military complex, according to the example not only of Romania, but also of Sweden, and of Finland, and of Spain, and of France, will be able to supply Bulgarian military equipment to the Bulgarian Armed Forces, and then we will have really partial independence. You have seen the latest research, according to which only 25% of Bulgarian citizens would fight for their country. I kind of justify them, because for 25 years all of you who ruled have eradicated all values, all ideals in people. People no longer have ideals, no values, and they don't know what to fight about for Tsvetanov's properties, for the Sarai of Dogan, or for anyone else?! They don't want to fight for it. My fellow Members, I tell you once again: get your head together, let's make sure that the Bulgarian Armed Forces get back on their feet, as it was at the time of, of course, the bad Warsaw Treaty, in which we really had an army, but, unfortunately, national traitors destroyed our defense capabilities by cutting up the R300, R400 rocket complexes and a number of others. In this way, you have deprived Bulgaria. This was really the first step, you have deprived our country of defence capabilities. Today you want to completely finish what we call the army, unfortunately, is a corps. Learn from what we tell you from Ataka. Let us make a referendum on whether Bulgarian citizens want to participate in this Union. We've spent nearly $2 billion. BGN, we've made human sacrifices, we're involved in foreign wars, foreign interests. Bulgarian soldiers are involved in the killing of civilians in Iraq, Afghanistan, and everywhere else. [[Reply from GERB: "This is slander!"]] About what? Those aren't our values. Again, let a referendum be made, let the Bulgarians say whether we want to be in NATO or not. This is the highest form of democracy, I can't understand why you're running away from it.! Once again, I call you to reason, take hold of yourself there are generals, colonels, come on, enough with this policy, what the United States tells us to do. You know, we have introduced a project to expel these four US military bases, which have already been sitting in Bulgaria for nine years without paying one lev rent, while at the same time the United States is paying tens of billions of dollars in different countries as renting for military bases used by their armed forces. Why not pay the poorest country in Europe, one of the poorest even in the world? Why don't you want to?! Why are we now participating in a number of exercises that are at the borders of the Russian Federation? Thus, you know very well that the only thing that is being done is escalating military tensions. Why should Bulgaria be involved in military conflicts, creating NATO bases and the supply of all kinds of weapons here? You know perfectly well that the Defence Agreement between Bulgaria and the United States does not prohibit the introduction of chemical and biological weapons from the US into Bulgaria. Is that what we want for Bulgarian citizens? I doubt that's what we at Ataka want. If that's what you want, get on the stand and say it. American bases must be immediately closed. The Yankees get their stuff and go back to where they came from. And this proposal of ours was rejected by all of you. I hope he gets in the room as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Applause by "Attack" and shouts: "Bravo!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u70	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. We continue with the questions scheduled for today. Ivaylo Kalfin, Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy, will be the first to respond to a question asked by the MPs Kalina Balabanov and Nikolay Alexandrov about an incident at the Hotel Veronica. Here you are, Mrs. Balabanov, to develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! Recently, an incident occurred in the complex of Sunny Day, Varna Municipality, where the hotel collapsed and a group of workers collapsed. In the media space appeared the information that the buried workers are Todor Dimitrov, 46 years old, Borislav Asenov, 39 years old, Rumen Angelov, 40 years old, and Manol Manolov. The workers were employed by the company "Bul ", which is a sub-contractor of "Planex", and their work was related to the demolition of the old hotel "Veronica", where it was planned to build homes. In this case, a work inspection has been initiated by the Labour Inspectorate. We at Ataka are interested in what stage is the examination of the Labour Inspection and what results has it led to? Are there violations in the employment contracts of employees in the company and are the safety requirements in the workplace met? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Balabanov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Balabanov, Mrs. Alexandrov! The incident in Sunny Day complex, in which four people died after a collapse in Hotel Veronica, happened on 8 April this year at 18.30. The Labour Inspection began an immediate investigation to investigate the causes that led to the tragic case. The control bodies found that a complex system existed on the construction site with regard to the award of construction works for the individual stages of construction. As of now, the inspection has been completed. The reasons which are directly related to the occurrence of the accident are the following: First, carrying out an activity which is not provided for in the design documentation and, in particular, manual demolition of structural elements of the building instead of in a mechanised manner. Secondly, destruction has been carried out, which is a high-risk activity without the safe way to do so. The Safety and Health Plan does not provide for the safe implementation of the destructive works. Thirdly, work has been established for persons without employment contracts who are without the necessary qualifications and are not specifically trained for this type of activity. In the course of the verification, 43 violations of labour law have been identified, the removal of which have been implemented 25 forced administrative measures and 26 acts have been drawn up to establish an administrative infringement, 14 of which are to work without contracts concluded. 14 decrees for the declaration of the existence of employment are also drawn up for the found cases of work without employment contracts. The main violations are committed by all participants in the construction work. The contracting entity has not fulfilled its obligation to require participants in the construction process to comply with the Safety and Health Rules. As a consultant, in its capacity as a consultant, there was no control regarding compliance with the requirements for health and safety of work by the designer, namely that he had committed the destruction without in the Safety and Health Plan, in the design project or in the order book of the site to reflect the changes in the technology and the degree of removal, and to give precise and clear instructions on the way the building was safely destroyed. In its capacity as a builder it has not provided complex, healthy and safe working conditions, allowing the destruction of the bearing structure to be done manually by cutting down columns. The sub-contractor BulSearch Group is engaged in labor by nine persons without signed contracts of the site "Hotel " Mirage" and has not agreed his actions with the builder "Planex" Ltd, despite the explicit ban on entering people into the building, by allowing people working to perform cuts of two columns of bearing columns on the ground floor. The sub-executor "Diging" Ltd has taken up work by five persons without signed contracts of employment, and the company manager has commissioned the same to start cutting down the carrying columns. The physical person Yovko Rusev has carried out an intermediary activity of nine persons on a construction site, without having the relevant registration in the Employment Agency for carrying out an intermediary activity and employment service in Bulgaria. These are all serious violations of legislation. I will once again recall the proposal that I have and which I am discussing with the Minister of Finance when working without a contract comes to a fatal case, such as this one, to bear criminal responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u74	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. For a replica, the People's Representative Nikolay Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Since our colleague Balabanov and I asked the question, it has been an extremely long time. It was quite logical that all procedures for the collapse of the hotel and the loss of human lives were carried out. The question is, what will be done here in this Chamber to stop this practice? I mean, let's not read them as statistics from the stands and take them as something formal, and let the news inform us as if it didn't become a big deal. I'm gonna ask a few additional questions. When you identified these violations in the companies, did you follow up on the other sites where these companies operate? Are such violations available? What measures will you take to ensure that there are no violations of the other objects? Have you done at least one analysis of how many sites in Bulgaria are subject to demolition? How competent are the companies and the people involved in them? How can this thing not happen in the future? Will the Labour Inspection check other sites that are in such a procedure on the Black Sea, and not just on the Black Sea? Understand that this way we lose the most valuable. In the field of labor these are the working people. The light hand with which this happens is not acceptable to any country. Our job as a legislative body is to work out the laws in such a way that it does not come to human sacrifices, and yours is somewhat preventative of preventing employers in one area or another from breaking legislation in order to obtain any benefits, because it can come to such an end. What you have commented with the Finance Minister is wonderful, but let us stop commenting on things and start implementing them, because as we comment on them, the violations will continue. Starting to apply them, and especially if there are more serious sanctions that we have proposed by the Attack Party, these things will stop very quickly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u76	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. The word is Deputy Prime Minister Ivaylo Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to assure Mr. Alexandrov that the General Labour Inspectorate is doing targeted intensive checks. We've announced this on all construction sites. Currently, the construction activity is increasing, and there is the sector where there are the most violations and discrepancies found. You see that this is about a number of violations that are not just about fulfilling the working conditions. There are many institutions here that should be taken into consideration. If ultimately it doesn't come to penal responsibility, I don't think that would be a good lesson for everyone else. Everyone should know that when the rules are not followed, when people are hired and their lives are put at risk in a similar insane way, then whoever has done so should have the appropriate criminal responsibility. This could also be done under current legislation. I hope the court does its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u78	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. The second question is asked by the National Representative Sultanka Petrova on instructions of the Executive Director of the Social Assistance Agency with No 9103-10/29 January 2015. Here you go, Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! On 19 January 2015, a Round Table was held on my initiative, where the work of the Agency for Child Protection was the main focus. Within the Round Table, many criticisms were given to the work of social workers and shocking facts were presented. The forum participants from the non-governmental sector expressed their clear dissatisfaction with the refusal of access to information on the content of the social reports prepared concerning both their rights and the rights of their children. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Agency for Social Assistance and the Holding Agency for Child Protection. Given that the criticisms were addressed precisely to the work of the employees of the Agency for Social Assistance, instead of learning from the direct opinion of the victims and interested parties, as well as by the NGOs, only a few days after the event I initiated appeared a document:. shows to the Executive Director of the Agency for Social Assistance No 9103-10/29 January 2015....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In order to get an idea of the merits of this, I will quote verbatim art. 21, para. 1, t. 15 of the Child Protection Act: 15, para. 6 prepare written reports and opinions, prior to the presentation of the requesting authority, parents, guardians, guardians or other persons who take care of the child, as well as the child who is 14 years old, if this would not harm his interest. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 6 of the same Law states: "Society is sending a representative who is expressing an opinion and, in the event of inability to provide a report which is intended for a case or for a dispute before the administrative authority. " Nowhere in the written legal provision is stated how the information is provided about the listed persons among whom the parents are and under certain conditions the child.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u80	It's time for the question, Mrs. Petrova. You've been running out of time for one minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u81	In this regard, I am definitely and openly making a request for the removal or punishment of that servant so that no one else like him will ever be able to display such an arbitrariness that harms the rights and interests of a large circle of people. My questions are: will you cancel the act of your subordinate by the order laid down in the Administrative Code of Procedure, what will you take to punish the guilty person? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. Come in for an answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Petrova, I would like to thank you for your interest and commitment to the issue of children's problems. You and I have had a few conversations. This is a delicate topic that is very often related to internal family, personal and so on relationships in which every third intervention is a very delicate issue. A balance must be made between the rights of children living in a family and the rights of parents and their duties to provide good conditions for these children. I would like to assure you that this letter of the Executive Director of the Agency for Social Assistance is not due to the Round Table and the discussion that you have organised. It is rather motivated by the creation of the same practice in the various departments of the Agency for Social Assistance. This is what we're talking about. You rightly noted that in art. 15 The Child Protection Act shall be granted the right to parents, guardians, guardians or other persons who take care of the child, as well as to the child who is 14 years old, to have access to information and to reports prepared by the Agency for Social Assistance. In no case can this provision of the Law be infringed. But you cannot extend the circle of individuals who have access to this information. Information related to children, especially in cases of family violence, of family relations is very personal information. It contains a lot of personal data and by law the Agency, as well as any office is obliged to protect this information and to provide it for the use of a strictly defined range of persons. The law provides for these people to have access. Non-governmental organisations and other parts of civil society or other stakeholders could not have such information. Parents, guardians, and those caring for children, however, have such access. You ask the question about the protocols related to children's talks. In the information I have received from the Agency for Social Assistance, there is a lasting caselaw here there are many decisions that I can provide, but I will save time to list all those of the Administrative Court Sofia-City and the Supreme Administrative Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. In them, they say that "Originals or copies of the working protocols for hearings and reports of social workers should not be made available to the persons under art. 15 or lawyers authorised by them, as well as third parties who are not in personal relations with the child, insofar as those acts do not have any self-important importance, are produced in the course of the proceedings for the issue of an individual administrative act and are therefore not subject to an independent appeal and have no separate legal effects. These are quotes from court decisions, again I say, I have a series of decisions in cases that ended with such lasting practice. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Mr. Chairman, one last sentence. It is about the possibility to receive written reports or to use the information. Indeed, in the Agency for Social Assistance, they refrain from providing written reports, in so far as this information is, again, personal and should be kept in person. There is a right to access and use it. As regards materials forming part of legal cases, there is a procedure in which, in each case, the interested parties or representatives concerned have access to that information, so that this could also not be cancelled. I accept any ideas to improve the procedure. In particular, this letter is within the framework of the caselaw and of what is required by law and does not restrict parents, guardians and those watching children to have access to the reports of the Agency for Social Assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u84	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mrs. Petrova, I ask you to be brief in the line, as you have almost exhausted your total time for questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u85	Thank you. I just want to share with the Minister and assure him that the problems in protecting the child are very serious. All parents who attended this round table said that they really did not receive social reports and did not have access to the protocols. We'll keep talking. I thank you from the National Assembly stands for your understanding and I suppose we will work together to have good rights and protection for the children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u86	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, would you like to take advantage of the coat? No. We move on to the question asked by the National Representative Georgi Gokov about problems of Bulgarian citizens who worked in Greece and have regularly paid their social contributions. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! In the receptions I conduct in my electoral district, and from a number of meetings with Bulgarian citizens who worked in Greece and regularly paid social security, it becomes clear that they have a number of problems in retirement and in the use of pensions. These problems are most often expressed in undue delay in the retirement or retirement proceedings, which need to be presented in Bulgaria. Another problem is the delay for months, even years, of payment of pensions already granted, without a reasonable explanation. A problem is the introduction of an informal requirement for Bulgarians with pensions to travel personally to Greece every year to certify that they are alive and entitled to receive their pension. There is a discriminatory attitude towards Bulgarians in communications with the Greek Insurance Institute, which is the competent institution for granting the payment of basic pensions acquired on the basis of payment of compulsory insurance. This deprives hundreds of Bulgarian citizens of their income over extended periods of time. The victims remain under the impression that the Bulgarian government does not respond to their signals and does not care about their problems. The European Union has laid down common rules for the protection of social security rights when citizens move from one European country to another and are based on four principles: one of them is the principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination. It requires Bulgarian citizens to have the same rights and obligations as citizens in the country where they are provided, in this case Greece. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, my questions are in this regard: do you think that the problems presented to me by Bulgarian citizens violate one of these four basic principles of the general rules for the protection of social security rights, the principle of equal treatment; that they lead to their discrimination? What are the measures you have taken so far, and what actions will you take as soon as possible in order to properly implement the common rules in order to protect social security when switching from one country to another Member State? When will the long-standing problems of Bulgarians who worked in Greece and regularly paid their contributions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u88	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Kalfin, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, you are putting a good question. Indeed, this is a problem of many Bulgarian citizens who worked in Greece and do not stand today. It is placed at different levels and attempts have been made to solve it for quite some time. Actually, there are two problems. The first problem is that, in most cases, insurance periods certificates, the notifications of a decision on the right to pension are received by the Greek competent institution, with a significant amount of demand, often one or two years later, given this information, which leaves people without income and does not allow them to receive their well-deserved pension. This question has been asked several times at the Greek Insurance Institute ICA. In 2010, the National Insurance Institute addressed it, until 2014 it received no reply. Within 2012, in December, bilateral consultations were asked the same questions and intergovernmental meetings were asked the same questions. The Office for Labour and Social Affairs of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of the Embassy also places them repeatedly. On 7 and 8 October 2014, there was a meeting between representatives and the managements of the NSI and the Greek Social Security Institute again. This is the first question on which, unfortunately, we do not have a satisfactory response from the Greek side so far, despite the different level of placement. There is one more question that is also problematic. With effect from 1 March 2013, the presence of a Greek social security number and tax number is mandatory for all persons receiving a Greek pension. The problem is that not presenting these numbers, which can only be done personally or through a proxy, with no mailing possible, is grounds for stopping the payment of pensions, which appears to be a second major problem. Once again, I have a list of actions by the Bulgarian side regarding the Greek authorities, which raise this issue. In the service for signaling problems, 948 people who worked in Greece, who could not normally enjoy their retirement rights, have raised this question. The issue is also at European level from Bulgaria. The answer we have at the moment is that, on the second point, which I mentioned, the requirement of a tax number to be received in person, the so-called pilot procedure has been initiated by the European Commission, which implies clarification of the circumstances with a view to further going to the European Court of Justice. With regard to the question relating to the delay in the Greek insurers' documents, we do not have a satisfactory answer so far. The European Commission believes that the attitude is not discriminatory, as long as the Greek citizens themselves waited for a year or two until they received their pension documents and the delay was not discriminatory towards Bulgarian or other foreign citizens. Of course, that answer is not acceptable to us. I would like to inform you that on 13 and 14 May next week a second meeting will be held in Sofia between representatives of the national insurance institutions. This will be a major topic that will be raised on our part. I, too, intend to go back to the European Union in contact with my Greek colleague and to ask for a re-review of the European Commission Decision relating to too much delay in these procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u90	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I know the matter is not pending today. The information you have provided me, including the meetings with the Greek Insurance Institute ICA, with the problems of the Bulgarians, in view of the efforts to solve the problems, is clear to me. However, I cannot agree that, in the 21st century, two countries - members of the European Union - cannot solve their problems in a civilised way. I hope there's any result of this meeting on May 13th and 14th. You must also know the reaction of the Bulgarians who work in Greece and suffer from this, and they are not few. According to unofficial data from Greek police and Greek services, there are about 200,000 with seasonal workers. So this problem, if it continues to exist, will affect Bulgarian citizens in the future. The people who come to me, they have come to you or to the receptions of the Ministry and all the employees and the NSI who have been involved, have one impression that the Bulgarian government and government in Bulgaria are not aware. I'm not really talking about this government and the governments back in time. In some way, this issue must be resolved, whether, with European assistance, whether with our intergovernmental efforts to produce results and these people, against the background of the overall poor condition of pensions in Bulgaria, their additional damage when they have regularly paid all their insurance contributions, is simply not acceptable and normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u92	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Here you go, Mr. Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Gokov, as I do, I would ask you to assure all citizens who are quite rightly seeking their rights that, since 2009, the Bulgarian governments have since changed several Bulgarian governments, constantly, permanently and sharply put the issue before the Greek side. The problem is obviously in the Greek administration. It is not only aimed at Bulgarian citizens, it shows the general state of this administration. What I can assure you, using the experience I have had in international relations, I will use absolutely all possible and bilateral and European instruments to put pressure on and protect the rights of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u94	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to answers to a question from Meglena Kuneva "Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Issues." The first and only question for today is from the MP Slavi Penchev Binev on the Strategy for a new anti-corruption unit. Here you are, Mr. Binev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ma'am and Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, fellow Members! With a small remark, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I wish you really much greater success in your work than in observing the National Assembly's Programme or at least the original National Assembly programme, which should have started with my question. Regarding the particular question you are aware of. I will also try to introduce my colleagues to the problems contained in the issue. I am addressing you in connection with the strategy prepared under your leadership to create a new anticorruption unit. You want the creation of a single body to fight corruption. At present, there are a number of bodies whose activities concern the prevention and fight against corruption. I would like you to respond specifically to the provision of restructuring by injecting them into this single body or directly to their closure? In fact, how exactly do you see this process taking place? I myself am in favour of centralising efforts in the fight against corruption, but, in my opinion, a large number of specialists in the area should not be allowed to be made redundant, as the temptation to cross from the dark side will certainly be great. There is also the risk that certain aspects of the fight against corruption remain outside the scope of the new body after the existing ones are restructuring. It's very important to me to know what ideas you have in this relationship? Your reasoning is also interesting that the new body should act more on the principle of unity rather than on the basis of collective beginnings because of the danger of blurred responsibility. Right today, we voted on a Declaration dedicated to two extremely important people who believe in the one-on-one. One is Stalin, the other is Hitler. I must tell you that it was you who spoke of one-on-one that I did not believe, because you are in charge of European matters, where one-on-oneness has the equivalent of totalitarianity.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u96	Mr. Binev, if you please your question!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u97	The question is: what mechanisms will be envisaged to ensure the determination and objectivity of the employees in this body, because the risk of falling under the influence of political or economic interests is no less than collective irresponsibility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u98	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Mrs. Kuneva, come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u99	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Binev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! First of all, Mr. Binev, forgive me for not starting with me today's parliamentary control, but I would have been offended by other colleagues of yours if I had not been in the Chamber to discuss the amendments to the Constitution. So it's like I've been to the National Assembly, but I'm glad I can catch up now and say what I think about the issues that interest you. Each of the questions the way you asked them. To begin with, we have a new Anti-Corruption Strategy adopted so far, that the government has identified me as Deputy Prime Minister for National Anti-Corruption Policy Coordinator and that it has been established since 6 April and has started working a specialized unit between the prosecution, the DANS and the Ministry of Interior for investigating crimes committed by persons holding high state positions. The competence and manner of operation of the unit are governed by a tripartite agreement. That's the penalty part. We also prepared a draft law on the single anti-corruption body. It is ready, the working group is finished, its discussion is about to be discussed within a few weeks, including it will be announced, of course, and on our page. Everyone can take part in it. This is the last phase of our efforts at this level. To your questions: how will the process of setting up the new body be carried out? The new body will unite the Commission for Conflict of Interest, BORKOR and the Unit of the Court of Auditors, which is now examining property declarations. That is, we are collecting these three bodies, in fact, the Court of Auditors' work on this issue from it. We'll merge these units and use their budget and personnel resources. Of course, we will also draw up a financial justification as required, which the Ministry of Finance must approve. There is one rule that we should not go outside the current financial parameters because the Bulgarian budget does not allow it. The issue of people, as you say, in the new body is key. We predict that people from the active units will work in it, which, however, are going through the relevant integrity check. You know this is how it is done in all such units in Europe. We don't think we should be the exception to that. We aim to keep all good specialists ready to do their jobs respectfully. Will individual aspects of the activities of the current units remain outside the scope of the new authority? No, there's no risk of that. The new body will do everything the former have done with enriched functions and opportunities. In this context, the integration of these units into a single body will ensure a better connection and interaction between the functions of... analytical and operational, and not as they are now scattered into separate bodies, property checks and conflict of interest. In fact, these are the two main pillars of the examination of property and declarations of conflict of interest. About the type of organ. On several occasions, I have been able to make public my preference for an authority with a clear hierarchy. This is not totalitarianism and is no dictatorship. Such are the authorities in Romania, such is the authority in Poland, such is the authority in Italy. Each model has advantages and disadvantages. For me, the issue of responsibility is a key issue, and that is why I propose it. Under the sole authority, responsibility is personal. We have bad experience in uncontrolled influences on committees, and it seems to me that now, with the necessary amount of accountability that this body and control will have, including on the part of the National Assembly, this will be avoided. Independence, objectivity of the employees will be ensured by checking the integrity of which I said in input. That's accepted. He should be working with us. Efficiency will also be based on periodic reports. Each month there are scheduled to be reports like this. The opinion of the Prosecutor General has been taken into account both the Strategy and the Draft Law has been presented in advance to the Prosecutor General, a representative of the Prosecutor General participating in the expert group that prepared the draft law. I think that's normal. All institutions with respect to any problem must participate in the development of this really very important and crucial body for our success. Thank you very much, I count on you to continue your kind interest in this subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. Here's your line, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I couldn't ask my own question about the prosecution, but you added it, and thank you very much. I accept your apology indeed. I'm sorry, it was a prank. Maybe sometimes I even salt the soup with these things, but... The truth is, I was really looking forward to your answers with interest. I must tell you that I will really continue to be interested and offer my participation in the discussion of the developed Strategy with the sole intention of my criticism being constructive. In no way am I looking for any other manifestation. I'm really going to try to find these cracks in which any villain could really put his finger in and tuck it in so that we can really avoid them together with joint efforts. That is, indeed, my criticism will be exceptional and only constructive. The only thing that really bothers me is that it does not fall under political or economic pressure. After all, collective beginnings are extremely important for democracy, and it is one of the things that ensure that this is not happening. I do cross my fingers, and in every way when I see something that does not meet at least my standards, which I have seen in the European institutions, I will signal you so that we can combat these weak moments, because we really need to make a system to counter corruption that meets the high European standards. Thank you. You can count on us that whenever there is any problem, we will point to it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u102	Thank you, Mr. Binev. A hole, Mrs. Kuneva? You don't. Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva, for today's participation. We are going to answer a question from the Vice-President of the National Assembly Yavor Iliev Haytov on European funds to Tomislav Donchev "Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy." Here you are, Mr. Haytov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister! I am really impressed that just a few days after asking my question, you appear to answer and fulfill your constitutional obligations. It gives me the impression that you are active, quite businesslike, you are doing your job with excitement, but my question is related to the European funds and, in particular, to investment in Vratsa region, where I am elected MP. Before I develop my question, however, I would like to tell you that unfortunately my constituents and all citizens and residents of the Vracan region do not feel the financial support from the European funds as it should be. But basically, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. The Fund is one of the European funds which is in support of the regions which are in a dire situation and on which the European Union is assisting the disaster areas. In the past 2014, several natural disasters occurred in Bulgaria: floods that caused significant material damage and, unfortunately, human casualties. Among the most affected areas of flooding last year were the municipalities of Vratsa, Byala Slatina and Miziya. In this regard, my question to you is: what funds has Bulgaria received under the Fund of the European Funds, which are targeted and used to improve the infrastructure and building fund in the municipalities of Vratsa, Byala Slatina and, above all, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Municipality of Miziya?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u104	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Here you are, Mr. Donchev, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u105	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Haytov! Thank you for your good words. It is worth noting that they are a much heavier burden and responsibility than any reproach spoken in this room. So that I don't waste the little time we have in common, I'll start with the maximum specific. I assume you know that, under the regulation, in order to obtain assistance from the European Fund, the State must submit an application for assistance within 12 weeks of the occurrence of the disaster. To avoid ambiguities and other supplementary questions, it is appropriate to clarify a few more things. First of all, as eligibility for funding is a disaster which, if it is on national scale, i.e. large, exceeds 0.6% of the gross national income of the country concerned; if there is a regional status, is 1,5% of the gross domestic product of the planning area concerned, it is units above 2. And another clarification. The formula itself, which determines how funding is granted, as a rule, the final amount for support is determined by taking 2,5% of the direct damage to the threshold. The specific threshold for Bulgaria is 232 million, 2.5% of direct damage to the threshold and 6% of direct damage over the threshold. So far, Bulgaria has submitted three applications for support. One for a major disaster for the June 2014 flood, one for a regional disaster for the Miziya flood, from August 2014 and a third application for the end-January disaster and the beginning of February 2015 on the territory of the whole country. In August 2014, the Managing Authority of Operational Programme "Regional Development" as a national competent authority for the management of the funds from the European Fund................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ A decision to grant the aid amounting to 10,5 million EUR is from 23 March this year, calculated according to the formula that I commented on a short time ago. It is intended to cover part of emergency measures to address the consequences of disasters. The total value of direct damage is estimated at 311 million. Three hundred thousand. Euros. Meanwhile, at the end of last year, on 22 December, the Council of Ministers adopted a National methodology for the allocation of funds from the Fund. The application requirements for the grant scheme were published in May 2015. So far, 23 institutions have responded, which have applied to the threshold itself, i.e. for 18.9 million. BGN, with the indicative period for the contracts being concluded at the moment. We expect them to be concluded within May. The second application for support with funds from the Fund is related to the damage caused by the disasters occurring in the period July 2014 in the territory of the Northwest region. The amount of the damages declared was estimated to be 77.5 million. On 9 April this year, the European Commission adopted a decision to grant aid amounting to 1 million. 983 thousand. EUR to be used to recover damage from the disaster. On 24 April Bulgaria also submitted a third application for the mobilisation of the Fund on the disasters that occurred across the country in the period 30 January 4 February. The total amount of the damage declared amounts to 243 million. EUR which exceeds the threshold for a major disaster. At the moment, there is a procedure for assessing the application, after which a decision will be taken by the European Commission on eligibility and amount of aid. I trust that all the documentation is well-formed and Bulgaria will have the opportunity to receive funding on the third application. Let me conclude by noting that the European Fund is intended to assist the affected Member States, but it does not in any way put the European Commission in the role of an insurance company. This is only aid which cannot replace the aid provided by the State, as well as all other forms of support and financing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u106	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Mr. Haytov, come in for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u107	I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, there are really controversial and indisputable things. It is certainly that these municipalities need help and support. What has been done in the administrative order and use of your administrative capacity, I would say, small administration is good, it is positive, but we all hope that these funds will finally reach the beneficiaries, to the municipalities to have something really done. Because, believe me, people are really worried about the smallest rainfalls and the smallest cataclysms that the events that happened in August last year will happen again. You have mentioned that the Fund is in support of the countries of the European Union. I do not need to tell you figures and facts, but I would like to point out to you that Serbia, which is not a member of the European Union, has received about 9 million. EUR, and we, Bulgaria, a significantly smaller amount, which says that you, as the head of this team and this administration, can make more efforts to reach the possible financial capacities and help that has no dispute, is due to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u108	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u109	Dear Mr. Haytov, just a few pragmatic details. Allow me to repeat that the funding from the Fund is not going to replace all the other forms of support. It is right to put the question again, especially when we comment on private housing that public funding is far from the best and far from being the only option for helping owners. A mechanism has recently been developed by the State to assist injured owners, but the main formula remains insurance. A few more details. Directly responsible, as I commented, is the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. As you can see from the time limits I was commenting on just now, that's where we're working at maximum speed. One more clarification. When we comment on Serbia, due to its specific status, our neighbour also has the right to support from the 100 million and this is due to the larger volume of support. According to our neighbor's statement, there are really very large amounts of damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u110	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Thank you for your participation in today's parliamentary control. We are going to answer three questions from Vezhdi Rashidov, Minister of Culture. The first question is from the National Representative Petar Vladislavov Slavov on the restoration in the area of Krusta. Mr. Slavov, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! My question to Minister Rashidov is in connection with the stone cross, which was located in the area of the Krstata (Krista) for many years in Lozenets (Lozenets) and which really has symbolic significance, apart from architectural and symbolic for the region. Dear Minister, the town of Krusta in the metropolitan area of Lozenets is considered sacred since ancient times, and the legend tells that it is there that Emperor Constantine the Great has seen in heaven a cross sign. In 1878 a stone cross was built in the wake of the legend and in memory of the fallen for the liberation of the city of Sofia warriors, there was built a stone cross that has survived through the centuries and to this day and until recently was located in the garden of Blvd. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man The Black Peak. In 2005 the memorial was declared a historical monument of culture, and in 2011 for reasons of preservation it was moved to the courtyard of the temple. God's transfiguration. The stone cross in the same-named area over the years has been a traditional place to celebrate the celebration of the region of Lozenets. Along with the celebrations there was a peaceful prayer for the fallen warriors in the Liberation War against the Ottoman yoke. After the move of the stone cross from its usual place in the place of the Cross, the tradition created by both the vinemen and other parts of the capital was broken and expressed in resentment for some of the residents of the neighborhood. In this regard, Dear Minister, please answer the following question: would the Ministry of Culture, respectively you as Minister, engage in the reproduction of the stone cross in an appropriate place in the area of the capital area of Lozenets, as an expression of the preservation of the centuries-old tradition of honoring those who died in the Liberation War, and also as a gesture of respect for the vineyard people and the celebration of the region of Lozenets, which is traditionally celebrated in the same place?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u112	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Rashidov, come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u113	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Slavov, in connection with your question, I am informing you of the following. The sacred cross in the area of Krasta. The district of Lozenets in Sofia is declared as a historical monument of culture, a real cultural property with a preliminary category of "local importance" in 2005. In 2011 the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union ("the EEA Agreement') and in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union ("the EEA Agreement'). The Cross was dismantled and carried into the courtyard of the parish temple. According to the Law on Construction of the Area, the formation of memorial sites, the construction of sites related to historical events and personalities is allowed after the permission of the municipal council and coordination with the Ministry of Culture. The Cultural Heritage Act establishes the power of the Minister of Culture to reconcile investment projects for the construction and installation of monuments, monumental decorative structures, elements in public spaces. In this sense, the Minister of Culture, as the body of coordination of proposals and projects, should not be the initiator of their implementation. The contracting authority of such an establishment may be an initiative committee, non-governmental organisation or municipality. In order to conduct a procedure for the restoration of the Obdred Cross, it is necessary that the proposal be made in accordance with the Law on the Construction of the Territory and the Law on Cultural Heritage, and the Ministry of Culture is submitted for consideration by the specialized Expert Council on Fine Arts Decision of the Municipal Council, a scheme for the deployment of the monument issued by the chief architect of the municipality, an investment project, a model on an appropriate scale, which illustrates the plastic solution. The specialized Expert Council on Fine Arts will evaluate the design, architectural and artistic plastic qualities of the project and will offer the Minister of Culture a solution in relation to its realization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u114	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Here you are, Mr. Slavov, for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u115	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. In fact, my question, I would say, is somewhat and quite timely in Parliamentary control, because on May 21st it is Spasovden and the celebration of the Lozenets district. The point of my question was to think more about whether the Stone Cross could be restored to this place, since it, as you yourself said, stood there and at some point had to be moved for reasons of its preservation, but the procedure of its placement and its lawful stay in that same place seems to me that it was not changed and could be used in the way that it was actually standing there. In this sense, my question was whether it was possible to build reproduction with which you as an artist and as a minister to engage, that is, to make a copy of this same cross and to put it in the same place where it stood until 2011. In fact, the place is there today, even the foundation is practically standing and visible. It seems to me that this whole complex procedure, which you described in detail on AWT in this case, does not need to be repeated again, because in practice neither the detailed planning of the area in this part has been amended, but simply the Cross himself has been moved to preserve itself better. Meanwhile, I was able to have a lot of talks with citizens from the region and several associations because I am sure that the issue has a financial dimension that would engage in financial support for such a project. I hope that we will find the best way to restore tradition and this memory is really a sign of the region, and I would say about Sofia, as before this city expansion, which has been happening for the past 50 years, this cross has been standing at one of the highest points visible from the city center and has seen itself very far away. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u116	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Here you go, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u117	Dear Mr. Slavov, the Ministry of Culture, bearing in mind the symbolic value of the memorial sign, its importance to the citizens of the capital and its traditional presence in the topography and topography of the city, will support such an initiative and will contribute to its realization, in accordance with its competences and powers. I find it appropriate, in view of the sanctity of the sign, its significance in relation to the ritual, as well as its historical value, not to be reproduced, but to be fully positioned with its authentic appearance. We have this symbol, it is the original, the authentic yes, we stand behind it and we will cooperate as far as the law and powers allow me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u118	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. We move on to a second question to Mr. Rashidov from the National Representative Lyubomir Vladimirov concerning stolen and/or replaced nearly 1500 exhibits from the funds of the Museum of Liberation War in the town of Byala, Ruse district. Here you are, Mr. Vladimirov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, dear Mr. Rashidov! As a member of the National Assembly of the Party of Ataka, I was informed by residents of the town of Byala, Ruse region that the funds of the Museum of Liberation War in the city lack nearly 1500 of all nearly 6000 exhibits. According to preliminary information from the media it became clear that some of these values were replaced with lines and the originals were sold in illegal auctions in Europe. The town of Byala is one of the cities that greets the Russian Emperor Alexander III during the Russian-Turkish War, and the house in which the Emperor is staying today is actually the Museum of Liberation War. It was created in 1907 and is one of the oldest in Bulgaria. In the past 108 years, one of the great prides for the inhabitants of Byala is this museum where original uniforms, belongings and weapons from the 19th century could be seen. It is said that an extremely valuable rifle was offered at an international auction, which was a donation by the Russian Emperor Alexander III of the Museum Fund in Byala. In this regard, I would like to be answered: does the Ministry of Culture have an up-to-date and detailed inventory of the funds of the Museum of Liberation War in the town of Byala? What is the number of missing and/or replaced exhibits, and if there is even one, is an investigation conducted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u120	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Here you are, Mr. Rashidov, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Vladimirov, regarding your question, I inform you that the Ministry of Culture is monitoring the case of the stolen rifles and the activities of the Museum of Liberation War. Since the end of 2013, when we were alerted by the President of the State Agency "National Security" for a cultural value missing from the Museum, representing a rifle system "Baranov" - part of a donation from the Russian Emperor Alexander III, made to Bulgaria in 1907, the specialized authorities requested assistance from the Ministry of Culture to establish data on the presence of a rifle model "Baranov" in the museum fund. On 12 September 2013, inspectors from the Directorate-General for the Protection of the Cultural Heritage carried out a check that clearly identified the absence of four rifles and numerous fracking violations in the organization of the museum activity. The same day with a forced administrative measure awarded to the mayor of Byala Municipality, the inspectors of the Directorate General "Inspectorate for the Protection of the Cultural Heritage" are required to close the Museum of Liberation War in the town of Byala. Exhibition and stock activity has been established and the building is isolated until full inventory of museum funds is carried out, according to the regulatory requirements to establish the availability of the objects. The full inventory was subsequently appointed by the mayor of the municipality and carried out with the participation of external experts. The Ministry of Culture was notified by a letter from the mayor of Byala Municipality on 10 February 2014. Visible from the minutes in the Museum of Liberation War there was a lack of 1502 museum exhibits. The majority of the missing relate to objects whose descriptions and inventory books of the Museum do not correspond to the items available. There are a large number of items that are not included in the museum funds. On the subject of the existence of an inventory of the museum funds, I inform you that the writings of the museum funds are the inventory books that are stored under a special regime and timeless in each museum. I note that the Ministry of Culture has methodical functions in managing the cultural heritage conservation system and control functions in compliance with the Cultural Heritage Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u122	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u123	Thank you. So the truth is out that 1502 exhibits have been stolen from the exhibition in the Museum of Byala, Ruse region. Here, a number of questions can be asked again to the Ministry of Culture and to the Ministry of Interior. Minister, first of all, it must be clear who are responsible and how long these exhibits have disappeared. Last but not least, of course, the Ministry of Culture must also say how much these exhibits are worth not only historical but also purely financial. Of all these actions so far, after this inventory, what will follow? Who will bear the responsibility of both the Ministry of Culture and all other competent authorities responsible for the Museum of Liberation War in the town of Byala, when and within what frameworks will this happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u124	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Here you go, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u125	Dear colleagues, allow me to draw attention to the status of the Museum. Under the current Cultural Heritage Act, the Museum of Liberation War is a municipal museum led administratively by the municipality of Byala. The cultural values invested in it are municipal property. The Municipal Council and the Mayor of Byala Municipality are responsible for the level of the organization and activities of the museum institutes. The institutions responsible for investigating missing items from the Museum of Liberation War in the town of Byala are currently the Specialized Cultural Values Trafficking Unit of DGBOP and District Prosecutor's Office Ruse. For its part, the Ministry of Culture, within its competence, shall cooperate fully with law enforcement authorities having leading functions in the conduct of the investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u126	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Last question to Mr. Rashidov from the MP Stanislav Stanilov regarding illegal appointments at the Museum in Nova Zagora. Here you go, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u127	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Minister, colleagues! In accordance with art. 28 of the Cultural Heritage Act Director of the Municipal Museum can only be a person with higher education with an acquired educational and qualification degree "Master" minimum, in specialty of the respective professional field and having three years of professional experience. The museum in Nova Zagora has departments: In full violation of the Law for Director of the Museum is appointed a person who has not one day of professional experience and is a Master of Pedagogy. Both facts are undoubtedly established because they are reflected in the employment contract signed by the mayor of Nova Zagora. Even more unacceptable is the fact that the Director has been appointed without a contest in violation of art. 28, para. 6 of the Law on Cultural Heritage and Art. 8 of the Law on Protection and Development of Culture. Both laws provide for the participation of the Ministry of Culture in the museum director contest. In this regard, I ask you to answer: what is the position of the Ministry of Culture when appointing the director of the museum in Nova Zagora in violation of the law? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u128	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Here you go, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u129	Mr. Chairman, I'm very grateful to you. Stanilov! In relation to the question you have asked, I will inform you of the following. In accordance with art. 8, para. 5 of the Law on Protection and Development of Culture the relations of the directors of the municipal cultural institutes with the mayor of the municipality arise on the basis of a competition, according to the Labour Code for a period of four years, unless otherwise provided for in a special law and the conditions of the competition are agreed with the Minister of Culture. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28, para. 6 of the Cultural Heritage Act states that the competition for directors of municipal regional museums is held by a commission appointed under the Labour Code, which includes a representative of the Ministry of Culture and two museum experts. During the preparation of a procedure for holding a competition for directors of the municipal regional museum the requirements of the quoted laws are respected. The mayor of the municipality concerned shall submit documents to the Ministry of Culture with the conditions for holding the contest in accordance with the requirements of the law. The same are agreed. The Ministry of Culture shall designate a representative to be included in the order determining the composition of the Commission pursuant to art. 94 of the Labor Code. Until now, no documents have been submitted to the Ministry of Culture to reconcile the conditions for a competition for director of the municipal museum in the town of Nova Zagora. On the occasion of the received alert, an inspection will be ordered and carried out within the statutory period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u130	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Professor Stanilov, your line!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u131	Mr. Minister, I was expecting you to tell me that such an inspection is already under way or has expired, but this is your administrative problem, but whatever. I would like to call on you to put an end to this lawlessness and to tell you that you have every reason to turn even to the prosecution, because this is a violation of the law. The mayor has no such rights. Anything can be, but this way, a mayor... I've had a lot of experience, I've been a member of these executive selection committees, but this has never happened to me. I know very well how the mayors of places dispose of community centers, museums and other institutions. They behave like derribes, and there's no doubt about it. I therefore call on you, Minister, if you really feel like a Minister of Culture, to end this outrage as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u132	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. A hole? I won't. Thank you, Mr. Rashidov, for your participation in today's parliamentary control. We move on to two questions and five questions to Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister for the Interior. First is the asking by the National Representative Magdalena Lambova Tasheva about a request from the European Commission through one of the Directorates of the Ministry of Interior of Financial Assistance in the amount of........................................................................................ 385 thousand. BGN 549 for urgent measures to better care for illegal immigrants invading the green Bulgarian-Turkish border. Here you are, Mrs. Tasheva, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, the then Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Tsvetlin Yovchev gave the following written information in November 2013. No I 57047 of 20 November 2013. He announced that 10 769 foreign persons from third countries, of which 10 393 or 96.5% have illegally passed the green Bulgarian-Turkish border, have been detained in the period 1 January 2013 at entry to the state border of the Republic of Bulgaria. Only 58.3% of them claim to be Syrians. Before the parliamentary Internal Order and Security Commission, Deputy Prime Minister Tsvetlin Yovchev announced that by the end of 2013 the number of these individuals will exceed 13 000, and in the first quarter of 2014, I quote, In 2014, Madame Deputy Prime Minister, as you should know, they continued to invade the country, including by sea with yachts from Istanbul to Varna. That is, as of 31 December 2014, no fewer than 14 000 people with an unidentified identity were invaded by the Bulgarian authorities as refugees. According to information from the State Agency for Refugees as of 27 February 2015, there are 3735 of these people in the respective centers, while another 656 are located at known external addresses of the Ministry of Interior in the country. With simple arithmetic actions we get that about 10.11 thousand of these lawbreakers with unknown foreign identity have disappeared from the centers, most likely scattered across the Member States of the European Union, in the same illegal way that they have penetrated Bulgaria. In any case, the State Agency for Refugees has no information about their current residence. Recently, with your government's decision from the European Commission, I will show for the cameras [[shows sheet]] The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are 402,000. 845,89 euros, I quote, for emergency measures for the so-called refugees in Bulgaria. Four questions follow from here. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] First, what urgent measures do the funds require? Please make a breakdown and list the measures. With which media have contracts been concluded to implement the Programme for Integration of Refugees?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u134	Excuse me, Mrs. Tasheva, you will clarify your questions two supplementary questions after the Minister answers you within five minutes. It's our rule, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u135	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u136	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear Mrs. Tasheva! Strengthening migration pressure has been a trend in the past few years. He worries us and I can assure you that we are doing everything we can to deal with him in the way that requires common rules, respect for the rights of our border crossings and guarantee security. Specifically on your matters. The State Agency for Refugees has submitted a request to the European Commission for emergency support under the Asylum Fund under the following measures: The measure is one-off from the accommodation centres at the stage of beneficiaries of international protection at external addresses and implementation of a six-month programme of initial adaptation for 600 persons. Measure two, providing the necessary additional qualified personnel to provide protection in Bulgaria; engaging and training of 120 additional staff for the procedures for providing protection for the purpose of serving 5 000 additional people; creating two mobile groups for additional control of the quality of procedures and support for activities; buying 6 EURODAK stations, software, licenses and 3 video conferencing kits. You're about to find out why. Measure three, the application of the European Union's minimum standards in the field of production for the granting of status by means of translation; the creation of procedural guarantees for the proper examination of applications for protection and the provision of translators to cover needs in all territorial divisions. For this purpose, it is envisaged to conclude translation contracts with 30 translators as well as video conference translations from rare languages. This is a major problem. Measure four, increasing the capacity for admission and accommodation of third-country nationals; improving living conditions and providing medical assistance; two temporary container settlements for 400 people, renovating buildings in two newly opened accommodation centres with a total capacity of 800 people. In view of the opinion of the experts of the European Commission on this measure, the two parties agreed that funding should be provided to a container village for 400 people, the medical centres that are urgently needed and hygiene materials. On the second question, as I received it in writing, I can inform you that there are currently no contracts with media related to the implementation of the Integration Programme. On your third question, I must point out that the centers are not half empty, unfortunately. Four centers with a total of 5 130 beds are operating at the SAB. Accommodation is carried out under specific rules: compliance with gender, ethnicity, religion, health. To date, the bed base is an average of 78%. The accommodation is 3,986 people, with centers with more than 100% filling capacity. In 2012, I will tell you in two words that in 2014 we refused to use it because it does not meet the requirements. It is designed to teach children as part of the system of the Ministry of Education and Science. On your last question that got to me. The children found to have crossed the Bulgarian-Turkish border without escort for the period until April are 99. The children sought international protection in Bulgaria for the same period were 1344. The difference in numbers comes from the fact that in many cases when crossing the border adults claim to be parents of children in order to easily cross the border and then leave them to seek protection on their own. Regarding the funds we've asked for, we still don't have an answer. We expect to find out soon enough the amount they will grant us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Ms. Tasheva, according to art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2, you are entitled to two supplementary questions within 2 minutes in total. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u138	Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I see that you are much more concerned with providing comfort and prosperity to the coming Muslim radical masses in Bulgaria, which, on February 19th this year, Turkish intelligence in its report confirmed that they contain, i.e. a large number of Islamic state fighters. Here in Bulgaria, they form criminal groups and chains, which is also reported in this report, which should be known to you [[Shows folder.]] From here they export Bulgarian cars, which in Syria and Iraq are used for car bombs. The whole world saw it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u139	Mrs. Tasheva, I'm gonna have to ask you for a quiet tone, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u140	The whole world saw last June when the Islamic State crossed the border of Syria with Iraq and announced the creation of a World Caliphate that they were moving for our shame, Bulgarians, in Bulgarian cars! There they are! [[Shows picture.]] With Bulgarian registration plates and Bulgarian wineries. [[National Representative Magdalena Tasheva speaks loudly, almost shouting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u141	Mrs. Tasheva, two supplementary questions! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u142	Here, I'm going to give you the photos, look at them and specify what measures you're taking against the invading of radical Islamists, terrorists, thugs and so forth social sludge from the Middle East under the label of refugees.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u143	Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova. Your response is within 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u144	Ms. Tasheva, your supplementary question refers to another group that was not previously marked in your question. I can assure you that we are talking about measures of a completely different nature that we are currently implementing. We monitor the processes, but so far we have no information about the fact that so-called foreign fighters are established in Bulgaria and there are groups that they organize. That is a very extreme statement and I cannot confirm it in any way. The measures we take in this direction are several. The first is legislative. We've prepared a bill to criminalize this kind of activity. Secondly, we are carrying out a 100 per cent check of those entering the borders of Bulgaria. We're working with the Schengen Information System. We also have 100% control over those entering the risk flights of the Bulgarian airports. We also use other common criteria established in Europe, such as risk indicators, risk profiles of entry, because they enter without documents, so that we can determine exactly where they come from and whether they pose any danger. It kind of slows down our work, so the centers are more full. We try and hope by means of the means we expect to receive, to speed up this process. I can assure you that we are very closely monitoring any danger that could lead extremist elements to the borders of Bulgaria. At the moment we can say that Bulgaria is only transit territory, without being able to say how many people, in a sense, there are none that remain on our territory. As far as the treatment of refugees is concerned, we understand this both politically and humanly, we must respect their rights of movement and respect all the norms and measures required as regards these people. After all, they cross our border, come here, migrate because their lives are threatened in another country. It's a common humane duty for all of us to help them. Let us not forget that the population of Bulgaria is structured after a series of such migration waves. We need to be aware of that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Mrs. Tasheva, please express your attitude to the response within 2 minutes. I'm going to ask you in a calmer tone.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u146	Vice Prime Minister, I am shocked by your knowledge in quotes about the history and genesis of the Bulgarian nation. What you said was a complete lie, and it speaks of despicable illiteracy. The Bulgarian nation is not formed by similar flows of refugees.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u147	Please, Mrs. Tasheva, lower your voice.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u148	That's one. Secondly, I see the great gaps in your awareness of who is a refugee and who is not. Bulgaria cannot solve the social problems of Asia, Africa, Latin America, Micronesia and so on. They are not refugees because they come from countries where there is no conflict. In addition, 11 times the Syrian government has granted amnesty to all these terrorists and thugs if they officially give up if they sign a declaration that they are giving up their terrorist activities. Therefore, they could not qualify as refugees under these conditions even in Turkey! If you were to give your government only one tenth of the care and love you show to the refugees, if you had shown at least one tenth of them to the Bulgarian pensioners and the Bulgarian unemployed, you would not have a price! I'll now hand over all the cars. Why do I bring these Bulgarian cars here, ma'am? [[Shows pictures of cars.]] Look, there are two severed heads attached to the ears of a Bulgarian car in 4023 BC.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u149	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u150	Why am I showing them to you? To find out that they're already here. They've done and organized criminal channels. And these channels work. What do you do? The Migration Directorate, which must expel them or, as you prefer to express yourself, to take them to the Turkish border, is under your command. She's your subordinate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u151	Mrs. Tasheva, your time is running out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u152	Here you go. [[Passing a folder to Deputy Prime Minister Rumyana Bachvarova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u154	And I hope you can answer the Bulgarian society...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u155	Your time is up, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u156	...what are you doing... [[The President turns off microphones, the public representative continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u157	We move on to a question asked by the National Representative of the ABC Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov about the appointment and secondment of employees on the border with the Republic of Turkey. Here you are, Mr. Belemezov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, on the occasion of the expected strengthening of migration pressure from Turkey to Bulgaria and the refugee flow in general, in early January 2015. The Council of Ministers developed a plan for the management of the situation, creating working groups. In this regard, former Minister Vuchkov made a change in security at the state border by withdrawing about 900 seconded police officers from the country's interior. The motive and position of the Ministry of Interior was that these employees were not prepared for this work, their lives were at risk, as well as a diversion from their daily duties and the deteriorating criminogenic environment inside the country. I'm talking about domestic crime. The three main things in the report in question are actually in the following direction: the Ministry of Interior to conduct a procedure for the appointment of 500 employees, persons working on the employment of fixed-term contracts of office Secondly, to be additionally appointed 200 employees of the Ministry of Interior at the Office of the Police Officer and the Senior-Police Officer to assist the activities of the Regional Directorate of the Border Police and Elhovo, at the Directorate-General of Border Police. And thirdly, what was actually the initial, phased out of the involvement of all employees from the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in the specialized police operation to counter migration pressure. My question to you is this: what is the result of the activities undertaken to date? Are there procedures and contests already announced for the appointment of such employees? Is the army involved in logistics at this stage? And has the practice of posting police officers from inside the country been suspended? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u159	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u160	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Belemezov, at this stage the Ministry of Interior does not provide for the appointment of persons of employment to perform actions on border guards. By order of 10 March 2015 there were announced competitions for the office of State Service in the Ministry of Interior for 100 positions of office of police officer and senior police officers in the structures of the Border Police. 62 state units are designated for the structural units of the Regional Directorate of the Border Police and 38 state units in the structural units of the Regional Directorate of Smolyan. The numbers for Elhovo will be allocated to the security groups at the state border. It is envisaged that the newly appointed officials of those posts should be assigned to the 5 border police departments in Elhovo. The newly appointed employees in Smolyan will be allocated mainly to the border police station Novo selo, Ivaylovgrad and Petrich, where the migratory pressure is the largest. With regard to the interaction of the Ministry of Interior with the Ministry of Defence, I can assure you that the joint work of the employees of the two ministries began on 27 April. In the implementation of a joint order and of the Minister of Defence, the Bulgarian Army provides logistical support to the Ministry of Interior in carrying out security at the border. The staff shall carry out their work on an operational plan, in which specific activities, deadlines, responsible structures for the implementation of the interaction of the two institutions are scheduled. Regarding the participation of police officers in the specialized operation on the Bulgarian-Turkish border at present, the seconded police officers are a total of 101 and 12 vehicles from the regional directorates of the Ministry of Interior Haskovo, Yambol and Burgas. In view of the situational picture on the Bulgarian-Turkish border and increased immigration pressure during the warmer period of the year, the Ministry of Interior plans to post additional police officers from other Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior in the coming months. We have no other choice, we expect an increase in migratory pressure if we monitor statistical trends.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Here you are, Mr. Belemezov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u162	Thank you for your answer, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Indeed, the problem of migration pressure is of key importance for Bulgarian national security and we will really rely very much on your efforts and on the efforts of the two departments to deal with this problem. In any case, there will also be a particular coordination link between the two departments, at least because the problem extends to different perimetres, different spheres for which a slightly higher view will be needed when solving these problems. I believe that each of the political parties will be available with consultations for participation in the working meetings and meetings through which we are looking for the most optimal possible options and solutions on this problem in order not to deepen the problem precisely with the migratory pressure that dates back to Bulgaria for several years now. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u163	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. A hole? No. We move on to a second question from the MP Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov concerning the restoration of the 24-hour work regime in the Directorate-General for Border Police. Mr. Belemezov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Vice Prime Minister, honourable Members! In fact, my second question in some way has a direct relation to the first one I put, and I believe that the current regime of work of the Border Police Department "Milko Tarnovo on 12-hour shifts was imposed by the holder of the specialized police operation at the state border with the Republic of Turkey at that time Milen Penev. This change was made with the agreement that the 24-hour shifts will be restored after 31 March 2014. From that date up to now, more than a year has passed without measures taken to return the old regime to management. The current 12-hour shifts are extremely ineffective. In view of the great distance of employment from the residence of a significant part of the staff, the time assigned for rest is lost precisely in a continuous exhausting journey, in some cases 200 km per day for each duty. My question to you is: will you take concrete action to restore the 24-hour work regime of the employees in the Border-Police Administration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u165	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u166	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Belemezov! I suppose you know that I will save you this part of my answer how complicated the operational situation is in the area of the state border Rezovo, Gramatikovo, Malko Tarnovo, Zvezdetz, the area to Malko Tarnovo, Elhovo and so on. It is characterized by extremely high operational activity, which is also confirmed by statistical data on the results of the operation carried out in this area. In view of the sharp complexity of the operational situation in the management responsibility area and the repeated increase in migratory pressure by order of the Director-General of the Border Police and the organisation of the working time of the security groups has been changed to a 12-hour shift regime since November 2013. The normal duration of working hours of civil servants in the Ministry of Interior is 8 hours a day or 40 hours a week, at a five-day working week. In accordance with art. 3, para. 1 of the Ordinance on activities requiring continuity of the work process, working hours shall be organised at 8, 12 or 24-hour shifts. In view of this, the allocation of working hours to 24-hour working arrangements is legally permissible, but on the argument of art. 13, para. 2 of the Ordinance states that 24-hour shifts can only be established when the numerical composition or the implementation of separate official activities does not allow for the organisation of the work of 8 and 12-hour shifts, respectively the establishment of 24-hour shifts is permissible by exception. A 24-hour work regime requires mandatory insurance, as you mentioned, on a 4-hour break. This would significantly reduce the time for the use of security personnel and for the current organisation and availability of the composition would leave sections of the border without guards. The establishment of a 24-hour shift in operation in the area of responsibility of the Regional Directorate of Border Police... Elhovo, under the conditions of the ongoing specialized operation and the expected strengthening of the refugee flow can prove to be a prerequisite for a significant increase in the number of persons who illegally cross our border. Therefore, for now, we will not take a decision on a 24-hour operating regime.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u167	Thank you, Madame Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Belemezov, come in for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Indeed, there may be regulatory obstacles by which this thing can be changed. As the problem is operational, I think that with a slightly better structuring of the main, direct duties and functions of employees and improving overall organizational work in these regions, we could find a solution on this issue. This issue needs to be addressed, as this is a problem that not only representatives of individual political parties have signalled, at the same time, a large part of the trade union organisations, which are the so-called social partner, between the Ministry of Interior, in particular its management, and the employees themselves who work at the Ministry. My opinion is that trade union organisations precisely and correctly raise the question, as they receive real feedback from those who serve on the border with Turkey. Indeed, there is currently no basic mechanism for these people to be motivated. The problem is not just how many hours, how long their duty is. The problem is also that these people are mostly far away from their families. These people in most cases conduct activities and have obligations that are different from what they have worked for all the time at the Ministry. These people do not use good enough and quality equipment to carry out their daily duties. I think that if we really manage to find a more direct path towards them, to their personal motivation, as you said, the issue is key, and motivation, and the fulfillment of their daily duties on the strict, in a good way is particularly important, we will be able to create an opportunity for these people to work more effectively, more motivatedly. [[the President signals that time has run out]] and, as a result, do not allow problems and violations at the Bulgarian-Turkish border. I'm not just referring to the dead cop last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u169	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Mrs. Bachvarova, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u170	Mr. Belemezov, I had the opportunity a few weeks ago to speak personally with representatives of the trade union in the region of Elhovo. We've discussed this subject. We've explained our arguments, and I've heard theirs carefully. At the moment, what we can provide is the service transport, as buses leave from comfortable places for them on certain routes and transport them to their jobs from where they live. An organization has been set up to reduce technological time to change the guard. We are developing an organization and measures, an opportunity to use their planned annual leave. Let us not forget that we are currently making a great deal of effort to change the organisation of work and to protect this part of the border with the construction of the protective facility. While the process is ongoing, we will probably remain in this mode of operation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. We move on to a question by the MP Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov on the common policy of the Ministry of Interior on Chapter Security and Public Order. The question is within three minutes, then the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior. You are entitled to two supplementary questions within two minutes in total under art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u172	Thank you, Mr. President, for your perfect work and clarification under the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. In fact, I raise this issue in view of the fact that it is part of the Bulgarian national security. In order to better illustrate my question, I would like to refer to a short fragment of the Ministry of Interior's proposal to Deputy Prime Minister Meglena Kuneva with a view to creating a project for a plan to be neutralized and in some way solved the problem of the migration crisis. I'll allow myself two very brief quotes: After the 2013 migration crisis, additional measures financed by the state budget set out in two plans have been implemented: the first was adopted by Decree No 45 of the Council of Ministers since November 2013, and the second adopted by Order No 216 of the Council of Ministers since April 2014. As migratory pressure levels remain relatively high and the tendency is to continue to be high in the coming months, this led to the need to draw up a third plan with additional measures to limit it. In accordance with Order No 8121/Z-674 of October 2014, an interdepartmental working group with representatives from different ministries and departments, such as the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Health, the State Agency of National Security, the National Intelligence Service, the State Agency for Refugees was established. This serious problem is also reflected in the Security and Public Order Chapter 2014 - 2018, which provides measures to improve the interaction with border states, and in particular the signing of an agreement between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Turkey to broadcast mixed patrols along the state border. The establishment of a Contact Centre for Police and Customs Cooperation at the Border Control Post is also envisaged, together with Turkey and Greece. Last but not least, with a particular current and public focus lies the problem of building an additional 131km fence along the border with the Republic of Turkey. My question to you is as follows: what is the general vision and policy of the state, respectively of the Ministry of Interior for the implementation of the provisions of Chapter Security and Public Order. Are measures prepared in this direction and what are your expectations for their realization?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u173	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova. Your response is within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u174	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Belemezov, I can assure you that we are following with extreme attention the development of migration processes and the pressure on the Bulgarian border. We are working on various political and organizational measures that will allow us to deal with them. Specifically on the topics you put in your questioning. Based on the 2011 agreement between Bulgaria and Greece to present the Turkish country for the creation of a Single Trilateral Centre, we continue to work. I have personally had two conversations with my Turkish colleague on this subject, as well as my colleagues with the Greek side, in order to speed up the signing of this agreement, the creation of such a centre of Captain Andreevo. On the Greek side we received a positive response, even a visit date was scheduled, but unfortunately, the Turkish side still has no confirmation of such a visit, despite the repeated readiness to sign this document. We've handed over our version of this agreement, they've returned their notes, we've accepted them, so we have a signed document ready. We've also put together the questions about joint patrols. It's a good opportunity, but we don't have a specific answer. My explanation is that this is still linked to the political cycle in Turkey. They're coming up very soon, after a few weeks, elections, and that's why the decisions are slowing down right now. I am encouraged by the fact that a positive attitude has been expressed from the Greek side and even a specific willingness to be present with a delegation, so I am counting on it. I will renew this question as soon as there is a new government in Turkey. As for our main measure, which we foresee and on which we are working on building the protective facility along the Bulgarian-Turkish border, you know that from there is 97% of the pressure on the Bulgarian borders. We're counting on her to limit it a lot. Unfortunately, it is extremely complicated to build, design and, of course, finance itself. I can give you information that the regional governors are entrusted with the organization for the construction of this facility. For Haskovo region, the new part of the facility will be 33.6 km long; for Yambol region The total length is 132.6 km. We are prepared to launch this construction as soon as we have the assurance of its funding. The total length of the facility, along with what has already been built, will be almost 163 km. The new part will also be much better in engineering and technical terms. These are the directions in which we work, and, of course, those that I have already mentioned about to optimize the work on border control, protection of the border through video surveillance and other technical tools. We are very active and very well working with Mr. Frontex and, in every international format, we are putting the issue before our European partners that attention to our border must be strengthened, against the background of the common migration processes in Europe.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Here you are, Mr. Belemezov, for two supplementary questions within two minutes in total.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. You confirm my words that this is indeed a very serious problem, in which when creating the working groups working on it, a direct participation should not only be taken by the Ministry of Interior. Perhaps the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should have a much more active and leading role in the clean solution of the problem with the direct diplomatic instruments available at the state level. I say this because in solving this problem is not just the question of how innovative is the fence itself, which is made, how many kilometers does it cover on the new project? They're 132.6 kilometers plus the original 30 kilometers built, they're going, as you said, approximately 163 kilometers. That's how we solve the matter in a piece. I thank you for having a clear vision and a role in solving this problem and you have initiated workshops and preparation for an agreement with Greece and Turkey. In my opinion, however, the issue is that the Bulgarian state, if it has done its job in the face of the Ministry of Interior so far, I think that the state as a whole should intervene and include, of course, diplomatic resources so that we can provoke Turkey and Greece to take quick and urgent measures to solve this problem, because it is the most difficult for Bulgaria as a whole. I may understand their passivity so far. I also understand our proactivity, but this must be a bilateral diplomatic process.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u177	Mr. Belemezov, if you please, your questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u178	My two supplementary questions, one of which you actually answered in part, are the following. The first, to give me a little more information to the MPs and citizens about the preparation, organisation, resource, personnel and the regulatory provision of the elements in question. Secondly, regarding the issue of the fence quite specifically, you hinted, but still: Has the Ministry of Interior prepared the project assignment to be adopted by the Council of Ministers, and in what order? I assume that under the Public Procurement Act the district governors of Burgas, Haskovo and Yambol will choose the performers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u179	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova, for your response within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, you were right, I have tried to point out to you in the broadest possible range the measures we are working on. The rest are pretty specific. As far as diplomatic efforts are concerned, I can assure you that they have not stopped. They're in a couple of directions. One is, of course, putting the topic in front of our European partners. Together with the Foreign Minister, we took part in the extraordinary meeting on the topic of migration in Luxembourg and there we presented the Bulgarian position. The other important issue we are working on is the signing of the readmission agreement with Turkey. At the moment, we do not have a positive response to this request. If it happens, much of the problems we currently have would be solved. This is probably also the explanation for the difficult process in which the Turkish side comes to this decision. As regards the procedure under which the protective facility is being built, with Decree No 55 of 12 March 2015, the Council of Ministers commissioned the construction of the facility of the district governors of Haskovo, Yambol and Burgas, who are responsible both for designing and then for ensuring the construction. What the Ministry of Interior is doing very actively are weekly meetings with regional governors, almost daily information on how far the process goes, continuous meetings. Yesterday at the meeting of the Council of Ministers, the three regional governors, in the framework of the operational meeting, reported personally to the entire Council of Ministers at what stage was the work on the facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u181	Thank you, Madame Deputy Prime Minister. Here you are, Mr. Belemezov, to express your attitude towards the answer. It's a two-minute limit.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Madame Deputy Prime Minister. Once again, it will be extremely important for me personally to address this problem to take direct part not only representatives of the Council of Ministers, but I am sure that in the mechanisms and measures proposed by the Council of Ministers, you will also receive maximum support in Parliament from the parliamentary political parties. Thank you for your answer. Thank you for your clear vision and attitude to the problem and for your will to find as soon as possible mechanisms to influence these processes. I hope that the prescriptions on this problem, which have found application and in the plan to resolve the migration crisis, will actually be able to follow them together. To observe the very deadlines that are set inside, and at times when we generate any problems, or any inability to solve a question, to really seek maximum support. My appeal is not to close ourselves only within the Council of Ministers, but very clearly and clearly to put these issues to the attention of all MPs, the whole public, so that we can accumulate maximum efforts, including, once again, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs through a proactive approach with our partners along our southern border with Turkey and Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u183	We move on to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov about the possibility of electronic data exchange between the bodies of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Ministry of Interior for motor vehicles subject to and not passed within the time limit of the annual technical examination and the necessary measures. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, my question concerns the measures taken with regard to the technical examinations of cars and the possibility and ways to stop vehicles in a timely manner which are malfunctioning and pose a danger. In recent years, cases of technically defective vehicles, including those for the public transport of passengers, have become frequent, and vehicles not intended for such purposes are also used. Just recently, a similar incident resulted in death, and several passengers were seriously injured. It's about the Varby Pass about a month and a half ago, two. Control of the technicality of the vehicle within the meaning of art. 147 of the Road Traffic Act is a joint between the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, which agreed a regulation on this with the Minister of Interior. In Ordinance No 32, in art. 11 it is envisaged that authorised workshops which carry out such technical examinations will send the data from the technical examination for a road vehicle electronically to the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration to the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. At the same time, however, there is no requirement for this information to be sent to the Ministry of Interior database in order to establish those road vehicles for which the legal requirement to pass a technical review has not been complied with within the established time limits. The above information provided on a regular basis to the DMV authorities would help both the traffic police to tighten the preventive control and for the timely identification of intruders only when entering the registration number of the vehicle into the system without having to intentionally stop the vehicle in question and carry out an on-the-spot check. In this regard, my question to you, Deputy Prime Minister, is: what are the possibilities of entering data exchange between the automated system of the Executive Agency............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u185	For an answer, the Deputy Prime Minister. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u186	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Slavov, you correctly state that at present there is no such electronic exchange of information, despite the two regulations governing the introduction of this information. I accept your offer as reasonable and reasonable. After checking with the Department of Communication and Information Systems, I can say that the Directorate has the technical opportunity to realize the necessary connectivity between the two ministries, as well as to assist in ensuring access to the data of the Ministry of Interior. It is possible to carry out a check in the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Automated Job Communications of Road Police in the Ministry of Interior, including tablets, which has been checked, which are currently being used by road police for remote access to information systems. At present, a project for public procurement under the Public Procurement Act for centralising of the automated information system is being prepared and is going to be agreed "Registration and reporting of vehicles and their owners." The implementation of this project will enable easier connection with automated information systems and other departments. I can assure you that we will be working on this in the framework of procedural possibilities. A very important problem and an important proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u187	Thank you, Madame Deputy Prime Minister. Right on the line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, that you have taken such a serious approach to the detailed information you have provided to me and to my fellow Members of the National Assembly, to the Bulgarian citizens. I am also pleased that the issue is being dealt with seriously and that its importance is being realised. In the modern world, when there are such good data exchange technologies, we solve a problem to achieve this in real time and the DMV authorities can be effective in exercising this power of theirs in controlling the operation of vehicles. And we all know how important this is for the drivers of the vehicles, for the passengers who ride in it, and for the other road users. Once again, thank you that within the limits of your powers, which gives you the Road Traffic Act, you have initiated what is necessary. I hope, as soon as possible, that the DMV, on the basis of the data it receives on these tablets, will be able to effectively exercise these powers and exercise them with regard to vehicles which are malfunctioning. Even if necessary, they should be sought and promptly suspended from movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u189	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mrs. Bachvarova, will you take advantage of the right to the coat? You don't want to. We move on to the next question by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov regarding security with official uniforms of nearly 30 thousand employees of the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Vice Prime Minister, honourable Members! My question is very simple and brief. According to data, the internal affairs system employs about 300,000 employees wearing uniformed clothing. The annual amount for the provision of uniforms is BGN 400. To a person. There is information that at present there is no such availability in the warehouses. My question to you is: are the funds needed for ordering and delivering uniforms in the budget of the Ministry of Interior for 2015? In the event that the need for funds is not secured, would this fact create a difficulty in the absence of such official clothing, given the inability of uniformed police officers to carry out their duties in civilian clothing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u191	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Come in for an answer, Madame Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u192	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Belemezov, this is a topic on which we are going to have talks with the Minister of Finance in the coming hours. I hope the result will be positive because my concern on this subject is that it coincides with yours. In 2014, procurement procedures were carried out under the order of the Public Procurement Act for five different supplies for the needs of the Ministry of Interior employees, including costumes, shoes, distinguishing marks and hats of a total value of 5 million. 477 thousand. lv. This amount represents approximately 40% of the value of the necessary... property of the civil servants of the Ministry of Interior, wearing uniform clothing for 2015. By my letter to the Minister of Finance of 9 April this year, I proposed to provide a target under the budget of the Ministry of Interior for 2015 with financial resources of the same amount for the partial provision of the staff of the Ministry of Interior carrying out their duties. I hope to have a positive answer from the Minister of Finance for a few hours.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u193	Thank you, Madame Deputy Prime Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u194	In line time, Mrs. Bachvarova, I would rather thank you for your reply and wish you good luck in your talks with Finance Minister Goranov. These are extremely important issues, as we all aim together at maximum efficiency and motivation of the employees in the Ministry of Interior. All these questions go through their organizational structure, through their direct obligations. All this goes through such small questions at first glance that make people at some point demotivated to fulfill their duties. Good luck to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u195	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. You don't want to take advantage of the right of the coat, Mrs. Bachvarova. The last question to Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova is once again by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov about the order of detention, equipment of premises for detained persons and order in them. Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Vice Prime Minister, honourable Members, my last question for today is also very specific. At the beginning of February 2015, the new Instruction 8121h "78" of 24 January 2015 was published for the order of detention, equipment for the accommodation of detained persons and order in them at the Ministry of Interior. According to this instruction, specifically in art. 5, para. 3 the requirement has been explicitly introduced, I quote: The police authorities from the structures of the Ministry of Interior, where there are no separate accommodation premises for detained persons meeting the requirements of para. 1 accommodate the persons detained by them in the nearest structure of the Ministry of Interior, where there are separate accommodation premises for detained persons. Paragraph 3 of the Transitional and Additional Provisions of the Convention states that the non-compliances with the requirements of the "Chapter 3' shall be removed on a schedule established by the Minister of Interior. My question to you is: has such a schedule been established and is it in line with the budget of the Ministry of Interior for this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u197	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Here you are, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Belemezov, meeting and providing these conditions is our European commitment. The Ministry of Interior has taken the necessary steps to comply with the European standards of detention facilities in the structures of the Ministry of Interior. Since 2007, a schedule has been made for different funds, work projects have been developed for the premises in 67 buildings at the SDVR and ODMI. At the moment, in order to be able to answer you very specifically, the program for bringing detention facilities into the structures of the Ministry of Interior remains 16 more buildings in the Ministry of Interior with completed projects that the Ministry of Interior plans to implement. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance, In the longer term, after the completion of the implementation of the sites with completed projects, the Ministry of Interior plans to bring all premises for the accommodation of detained persons on the territory of the country in accordance with the requirements of the European Union and the third of the Instruction referred to in Chapter 3. In order to comply with the requirements of the remaining premises in 102 buildings of the Ministry of Interior, indicative financial estimates require funds of 9 million. 390 thousand. lv. In view of the restrictive ceilings for capital expenditure in the budget of the Ministry of Interior and the contractual commitments for the implementation of other sites in the three-year budget forecast 2016 lv. In 2014, application forms were drawn up for applications under programmes financed by the public investment programme "Employment and sustainable development of regions" and corresponding estimates were drawn up. For 2015 there are 1 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. For a total of 15 buildings in the complete project documentation; for the period 2016 - 2017 there are 7 million. 890 thousand. lv. for a total of 87 buildings in the ODMI in the country. We've got a plan, we've got a blueprint, we've got to find the means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u199	Thank you. You will take advantage of the right to reply.......................the right to I would like to inform the MPs that parliamentary control will continue until 14.10 p.m. Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Rather, I would like to thank Mrs. Bachvarova for the answer and wish again to provide the necessary resources for the Ministry to solve this problem. At first glance, this problem stands out in two accents. The first: how do we counter crime and fight it when we don't even have premises to accommodate police authorities? Secondly, the need to invest properly in various projects today is extremely important because the target investment today will reflect at the time when we will be able to reduce the costs we are making in the structure of the Ministry of Interior. What do I mean? I mean, when a person is held at the place of the person, but there are respectively no premises for detained persons, it must be transported to the place of the person concerned. All this is expenditure for the Ministry of Interior, a waste of effective time for the police officer in question, who could counter local crime instead of transporting a detained person from one place to another. Thank you and good luck.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u201	Thank you. You don't want to take advantage of the right to dodge. With this your participation in today's parliamentary control is exhausted. You have fulfilled your obligation under art. 90 of the Constitution, for which I thank you. We are moving on to the answers of Minister Nikolina Angelkova, Minister of Tourism. The first question is from the MP Desislav Chukolov about the expected failure of the summer tourist season. I do not see in the Chamber the MP Desislav Chukolov. There has been no request for a postponement in the Presidency, which is why the issue is off the agenda. We move on to the second question to Minister Angelkova from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov on the threats of a crisis at the upcoming tourist season. Here you are, Mr. Yankov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Angelkova, my question is dictated by the alarming signals regarding the threats of a crisis at the upcoming tourist season. They relate not only to a tide of tourists in relation to the so-called Russian market. You have a statement saying that there is a tide in the preliminary entries for different tourist operators from 20 to 80%. My specific question to you is: what composite measures are being taken to attract tourists in relation to the threat of a crisis in the upcoming tourist season? What is the attraction strategy and what share are the tourists expected to be whose visits to our country are related to the visit of cultural heritage sites, the so-called cultural tourism and tourism, provided the lack of synergies between the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Culture is obvious? I am referring to the exhibition of the Thracian treasure in Paris, in Luvera. Instead, it should be used as an attraction center in relation to cultural tourism in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u203	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u204	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Yankov, the Ministry of Tourism is focused on the policy for sustainable development of tourism and Bulgaria's presentation as a year-round tourist destination, conducting an integrated policy for the development of the tourism sector as a priority sector for the economy. Our efforts are aimed at diversifying the national-tourist product by developing integrated and specific tourist products for the different categories of tourists to extend the season and overcome territorial disproportion in supply. The promotion of cultural-historic tourism through the specifically developed cultural-historic routes in the Ministry of Tourism, namely "Sofia World Gora" (Sofia World Forest), "On the path of Thracians" (Tracians), "Festival of Roses" (Rose), "Bulgarian Architecture and Crafts" (Bulgarian Arts and Crafts), the sea fortresses of Bulgaria, the capitals and cities of Bulgarian kings and patriarchs, the wealth of the Northwestern and Struma," as well as the branding of the country by bringing out cultural-historic tourism as a leading segment of national tourist advertising, we consider a competitive advantage of a fundamental nature. In the context of these integrated efforts, the biggest event is also held, a direct result of the cooperation between the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Culture, namely the exhibition "Epice of the Thracian Kings" - Archaeological discoveries from Bulgaria at the Museum "Luver" - Paris, from which we expect an unparalleled image effect with regard to our country. In connection with the implementation of the three-month exposition of the Thracian Gold Treasure in the period 15 April lv. under the budget of the Ministry of Culture. The preliminary analysis of this participation shows that during this period the museum visitors are expected to be between 4 and 5 million. people as the main target of the audience of the advertising campaign of the museum itself is 22 million. potential visitors. At the same time, the Ministry of Tourism organized a tourist fair together with the Sofia and Paris municipalities for the Tourist Fair on 5 and 6 June 2015 in the framework of the exhibition so as to best promote all the tourist products the country offers. In addition to the process of synergies with the Ministry of Culture, I would also like to add the signed Agreement on Cooperation and Exchange of Information to promote and promote the developed cultural and historical routes abroad, with which the Bulgarian cultural institutes abroad are entrusted. Under this agreement, they will also undertake to present the country as an attractive tourist destination, its rich cultural heritage and the opportunities for practicing cultural tourism in Bulgaria as well as its potential for the development of sea, mountain, spa, spa, eco rural, sports, adventure, hunting tourism, golf, wine and gourmet tourism. The aim is to stimulate the development of specialized segments of tourism with high added value of the product. For Bulgaria's positioning as a year-round tourist destination with a focus on cultural and historical tourism contribute to the concept of tourist zoning, which the Ministry of Tourism accepted. It is designed as a necessary tool for increasing the competitiveness of the Bulgarian tourist product and conducting a regionalised tourism policy. In line with the territorial features and specifics of the various parts of the country, it is a catalyst for effective regional marketing to make tourist areas active for potential guests and successfully promote regions both on the internal and international market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u205	Thank you, Madam Secretary. For a replica, the People's Representative Krasimir Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u206	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, you have given a very formal answer. I will quote what you said on 14 April: The Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova expects growth of tourists in Bulgaria by 5% because of the high attendance of the Bulgarian exhibition in Louvre. You expect tourists to visit the exhibition in the Louvre after that to come to see it again in Bulgaria?! Just so you know. In my opinion, the expectations of the Ministry of Tourism and industry and those in the sector were much greater. The Thracian treasure, even not in this complete composition, has been exposed twice in Varna during the summer season 2006 and 2012. During the summer period 2011 it was in Burgas. The information from the museums in which it was located is that it attracted tourists, mostly foreigners. In all three years, over 150,000. tourists have visited museums to see this treasure, which is part of my question to you: In relation to the crisis in the tourist season, how can the industry and those involved with the sector be helped? I pay attention to you, in 2006 the event entered Varna's summer and became the subject of unprecedented interest. The event of the year, initiated by the club creators of public opinion, is the exhibition of Thracian treasures right in the summer period in the city. Varna, by paying attention to Bulgarians the price of the ticket 2012 was BGN 5 for pensioners, children and students 3 BGN. You understand that this wealth, exposing it abroad, is not so useful for the tourism industry, and you, as Minister of Tourism, have a commitment to support this sector. It is extremely necessary for the Bulgarian economy. This is my call to you and in connection with your absence with the Ministry of Culture. In your response, you speak as Minister of Culture, and that is within the jurisdiction of a colleague of yours. Your commitment is to support tourism in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u207	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Please come in for the doppelganger, Mrs. Minister, within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u208	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, as I said, cultural and historical tourism and cultural and historical routes that we have prepared at the Ministry of Tourism and have a major focus in our advertising aim to identify our country as a recognizable year-round tourist destination. For the record, France is the largest generating market and there are between 85 and 90 million annually. tourists. The possibility for Thracian treasures to be in the Louvre is unique both in terms of a narrow cultural aspect and in terms of tourism and this enables our country to be shown on this large generating market, and therefore to increase the number of tourists who are willing to visit it, not only to examine our treasures, not only because of our cultural and historical wealth. In this direction, I would like to inform you that the statistical dimensions of our country's cultural and historical potential are as follows: 7 thousand registered. the cultural monuments, of which 167 of world importance; our country's indicative list of UNESCO is included with 14 historical and 2 natural sites; cultural wealth is complemented by 4 million. museum exhibit; 12 thousand. Funeral mounds; over 500 murals; 150 monastery complexes and 2,000 churches; over 300 Islamic temples and remains of over 1400 fortresses. At present, the share of cultural tourism is one-eighth of the country's total product supply, according to data from the National Statistical Institute (NSI), the costs related to cultural events in 2014, incurred by foreigners in our country, without day-to-day tourists, were nearly 512 million. BGN, and Bulgarians spent in the country, including with day-to-day tourists, nearly 67 million. lv. Our goal is not only a significant increase in this share, but also a catalization of the development of diversified tourism products in parallel with cultural and historical tourism. We rely on the development and promotion of this innovative product for Bulgaria, such as cultural and historical routes and their ability to generate added value in a diverse range of supply parallel to other tourist products. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-08.u209	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is from MP Miglena Alexandrova about the summer tourist season. I don't see Mrs. Alexandrova in the hall. The Presidency has not applied for a postponement, which is why the issue is off the agenda. The time is 14,10 and the scheduled time for parliamentary control is over. Dear colleagues, the next meeting of the National Assembly is on 13 May 2015, Wednesday, 9.00 p.m. ..on a regular basis for a meeting. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
