ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u1	We have a quorum, I'm opening the session. [[Ringing]] . We continue with the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR PREVENTATION OF THE CORRUPTION ADD TO THE PERSONS LOADING HIGH PUBLIC OWNINGS. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2015. We are continuing with the debates under the Law. At the previous meeting on 31 July 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 31 July 2015 to 31 July 2015. On Friday, they spoke: Atanas Zafirov from BSP left Bulgaria, Lutvi Mestan from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Ivan Kirilov Ivanov from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Petar Hristov Petrov from the Patriotic Front and Philip Popov from BSP left Bulgaria. The remaining time in parliamentary groups is as follows: Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB The time is extended. We can continue with the debate. There is a list that has remained since then, but it is better to make new requests for speeches so that there is no confusion. On the old list, the People's Representative Velizar Enchev said a statement, so you have the floor, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u2	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Kuneva, honourable colleagues! I generally support the Law on the Prevention of Corruption among senior public officials, and I believe that such a law should exist, and I congratulate Mrs. Kuneva for proposing this law. But there are very serious fundamental problems in it that should be addressed, otherwise this law will degenerate in the Bulgarian contemporary Gestapo. In the previous sitting, namely the last meeting before the summer holidays, on the left and from the centre, if I am not mistaken Mr. Mestan and Mr. Mikov spoke on this topic and my opinion is no different from theirs. Article 8, Ms. Kuneva, which states that the Director and Deputy Director of the National Bureau are appointed and released by the President of the Republic of Bulgaria on a proposal from the Council of Ministers, is a gross violation of art. 1 of the Constitution, which states that Bulgaria is a republic with parliamentary rule. In this way all the power here will fall into the hands of the Prime Minister, and in this case Boyko Borisov, because we all know that President Rosen Plevneliev and the next President is always dependent on the parliamentary majority, unfortunately. I will therefore propose and hope that this will be supported, supported by this text, you are obliged to support it: the Director and Deputy Director of the National Bureau to be appointed and released by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. After all, we are still a parliamentary republic, not a prime minister's and presidential republic. I also believe that art. 9, where the oath is spoken, there is a very interesting sentence: I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country, to work to carry out the functions provided to the Bureau against corruption. In fulfilling the obligations vested in me by law and my personal professional conduct, I will be guided by the highest standards of integrity. Well, can you tell me who determines, Mrs. Kuneva, these highest standards of integrity when taking the oath? Let these standards of integrity be refined. Maybe there should be a classifier for integrity. It seems to me that this oath is quite vague and blurry. And now the most important thing I am convinced many of you will object. Article 4: The persons holding senior and public positions shall declare their property and income to their spouses or to the persons with whom they are in a mate's cohabitation. I will tell a secret of the Bulgarian transition. You all know that the huge property that many of you own, because this parliament is the parliament of the Bulgarian millionaires, and the previous one was the same... [[Shouting from the right, E-e-e-e!]] . No, no offense, no harm will come between us millionaires. But this parliament is the parliament of the Bulgarian millionaires and they all, you all are in this column, you attribute your property to the adult children. I believe that there should be a clause saying that the property must be declared, the financial situation of the children of the age-olds of the senior public positions in this country. I repeat one more time. I know that all of you who are listening to me now will jump, with few exceptions, against me and you will say that this is discrimination. No, that's not discrimination. The hundreds of millions are all of the children who have reached their age, and we all know it very well. If, Mrs. Kuneva, you do not propose or support this text, I will believe that you are in conflict of interest. [[Laughter and shout on the right.]] Yes, and the reaction from the banks now confirms my thesis that you will categorically and unanimously reject this proposal of mine. In no way, of course, honourable Members, I do not sum up, I only said that the proposal...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u3	Mr. Enchev, do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber. I must give an opportunity for a personal explanation to almost the entire parliament in the way you have spoken.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u4	I didn't mention any name, Mr. Chairman. Besides, I am not the one entering into dialogue with the House, but the House is entering into dialogue with me, especially GERB and the right part of the Chamber. [[Radio on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u5	Go on, you've got about a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u6	Dear colleagues from GERB Party and in the center who regularly apostrophy me when I speak: you will get used to the fact that here, on this platform, people will speak who do not think like you and do not think like your idol Boyko Borisov. You'll have to accept that. This will be the norm from here to the end of this parliament! [[Single applause by BSP LB.]] And the sooner you get used to this thesis, the sooner I will be convinced that there is democracy in this Parliament, not boycocracy! Here are my suggestions. I repeat once again: Mrs. Kuneva, immediately withdraw art. 8, which imposes [[the President signals that time has run out]] Presidential and prime ministerial, not parliamentary republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u7	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Your speech has exhausted all the time of the group. I hope your non-members aren't mad at you. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Valentin Nikolov of the Patriotic Front Group. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, dear colleagues! Firstly, I would like to say that we in the Patriotic Front are not against any law that can be truly effective and clear, justified and effective in fighting corruption or preventing it. Unfortunately, however, on this bill, we have serious remarks, as we believe that there are a lot of ambiguities, doubts about the possibility of being used for unclean purposes, and after all the consultations by Mrs Kuneva with the parliamentary groups we believe it was appropriate to correct some irregularities, and only then should he enter the National Assembly and the committees. I had the opportunity to express my opinion at the meeting in the parliamentary group that we held, as well as at the meeting with the National Anti-Corruption Policy Council of the Council of Ministers. I also expressed the same opinion in the Commission, where we were looking at the Bill. Let me be more specific, however, and tell you where our more serious remarks are. In advance, I would like to say that if the Law is passed at first reading, we have now prepared over 30 amendments and additions to the Law, which we are prepared to submit. We believe that they will be useful and the importers will comply with the remarks because they are quite serious. Now I'll introduce you to just a few of them. In one of the members, there are too many rights granted to the Director of the National Bureau, but no specific authority is specified, which will exercise direct control and what is the scope of responsibility. The rules on the structure and operation of the National Bureau should be issued by the Director of the Bureau but should, in view of the significant public activity, be validated by a higher authority in order to avoid the single determination of duties and controls. In another member, I will not refer to the members so as not to be accused of tabling any amendments, the appointment and hearing of the Director and the Deputy Director only from the executive can raise doubts about his independence and about the existence of control over the legislative power. In practice, the National Assembly will have information about the activities of the National Bureau only from its annual report and when hearing the Director. The National Assembly cannot be indifferent to the activities of the executive in implementing the laws on which the policy is implemented. The legislative power loses its meaning if the laws adopted by it are not effectively implemented. Another member, the failure to specify a specific specialty in relation to the position of the Director and the Deputy Director of the National Bureau, who is relevant to the future activities of the Bureau, is in fact a lack of prior assessment of the criteria for their choice. Another member, colleagues, this is important, the explicit ban, seen in art. 18, para. 1 and 2 for non-disclosure of information by all employees of the National Bureau makes the presentation of only the annual report and the hearing of the Director of the National Assembly of parliamentary control, as art. 80 of the Constitution gives the supreme authority of the state, and this is the National Assembly, to receive full information as necessary, as well as under the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. Here we come to two very serious articles, which I think are a very serious bomb, which is bet in the Law. The first concerns the assessment of the national bureau's self-session, including media. She's too general and subjective. It is necessary to specify specific criteria and the existence of sufficient facts and evidence of the formation of proceedings by the National Bureau against persons holding senior public positions. The other member is unlawful in accepting a factual separation only with the claim of one of the spouses by signing a declaration. The declaration is a statement by only one person who would be liable if false declaration was found. There is no legal framework to carry out such an examination. The form of the marriage, the terms and the arrangements for its conclusion and termination, the personal and property relations between the spouses shall be governed by law. 46, para. 3 of the Constitution, and with the declaration they cannot give up legal rights. The adoption of this declaration is a serious prerequisite for violations by persons holding senior public positions. The next member, who is also a very serious time bomb, as I have just said, and it is good, colleagues, to rethink it before you vote, is as follows. According to the provisions of art. 111, para. 4 of the Administrative Procedure Code, the anonymous signal is not a legitimate cause for production. The production of anonymous alerts may create prerequisites for a deliberate and guiltless targeting of persons holding a senior public office. It may provide reasons for the formation of cases under the State's liability law and the municipalities for damages. In this way, the imposition and absence of personal and civil liability in the issuing of an alert and the formation of the checks shall be encouraged. Notice, the bill gives maximum security to individuals having a personal and civil position to submit a signal. Chapter 6 of the Draft Law describes in detail the measures to protect the applicant's signal. We ask: why, then, is it necessary to have anonymous signals when the senders are protected?! How will anonymous alerts that result in a false signal justify the follow-up of the Bureau and the state institutions involved, the expenditure incurred from the budget and resources of the inspection be justified?! Colleagues, notice, there is a great danger, in our view, on this bill, that anonymous signals are used to clear political, economic accounts and to enable dishonest citizens to submit informants and slanders without bearing any responsibility. Therefore, in our view, this Bill needs a serious amendment and a supplement if it is adopted at first reading, as I said. The last thing I want to tell you from my humble experience, when I was chairman of the Forty-first National Assembly of the same Commission, is that there were also anonymous signals at the time, as the first President Mr. Jane Janev had placed them in the internal rules. We were overwhelmed by dirt, snitches, slanders. The Commission had nothing to react to but to direct them to the competent authorities, to harness the entire state apparatus, prosecutor's office, the Ministry of Interior, subsequently a court, the SANS, the NRA and so on. They can, if the signal is false, spill the business on anyone or defamate and defile any individual against whom the signal is issued. Believe me, this is a very serious bomb planted in the Bill. If he is accepted in this form, you will see for yourself that indeed everyone can fall under his punches, because you know that this Bill is extended from the President to the village mayor. It is no accident that the Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria objects to it, and not only them, but also prominent lawyers with whom we have consulted. We have made a political decision from the Patriotic Front. We are not opposed to any such bill, because I repeat: we are for the fight against corruption, for the prevention of corruption, but we have taken a political decision and we will vote abstentioned, not against. [[Single applause and cheering, Bravo!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u9	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Metodi Andreev from the Parliamentary Group of Party GERB, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today we are looking at the Anti-Corruption Act at first reading. Whenever a law is dealt with at first reading, there are two aspects of it when it is examined politically and legally. I would like to draw attention to all my fellow Members that the legal aspect usually gets more serious consideration at the second reading of the law. Today it is time to state our political position to all MPs, whether we are part of the ruling majority or we are part of the opposition. This Law is one of the few laws by which we should not be divided into government and opposition, because corruption threatens our national security and on this issue we must be united! That is why we need to speak more politically and not so in detail legally and look for the Cusurits of the Law. Of course this Law has faults, there can't be none. That is why the legislator has foreseen that there should be a first and second reading. Today, however, it is clear in this House that our political will must be heard that we all together must have a real battle with corruption, because if we are talking about greater absorption of European funds and the ability to invest more and more public money in various infrastructure projects, and we are not fighting a real battle with corruption, this means admitting that we are providing illegal income to people with power, with a position, with links in a judicial system, in special services, with politicians. These two processes of the revival of the economy and the fight against corruption must go together because otherwise we create conditions for increasing the corruption potential of the Bulgarian backstage. In this sense, I would like to draw the following conclusion. The issue of anti-corruption legislation is actually one thing, and I will use a military term for binary legislation. It needs two ingredients which, unless voted and supported by the National Assembly, by Parliament in this form, will not happen, that is, the fight against corruption will not happen. The first extremely important and very important thing is the reform of the justice system, the amendment of the Constitution. Without this, this Bill will hang because if we do not create trust in the justice system by legislative means, if it does not start working the way that we all want it to work, if we do not guarantee justice for everyone, then we cannot guarantee the implementation of the clauses and texts of this Law. The first important condition is: we have a clear parliamentary will to change the Constitution. May it reach its realization. The second condition is to adopt an effective radical law. There are some things in this Law that I don't like, but I don't like in any other direction, they're not radical enough. The main thing about such a law is the prevention that it provides. Simply put, he must put fear into the souls of people who want to reach for common funds, to take from public money. This fear is prevention of crime. Where there is fear of law, there is rule of law, because we create laws that do not create such a feeling in people who will eventually break them. I'll give you an example right away. Until now, a number of laws have been passed, there is a Penal Code and so on. However, the problem always stands and remains unresolved about who the person will be, who will be the director of this Anti-Corruption Bureau. [[Noise and endorsements by BSP LB.]] If he does not have the political will to deal with corruption, if he does not have this courage and public responsibility, this man will do nothing material. I believe that the issue of the election of the Director of the Anti-Corruption Bureau is not well resolved in the Bill. First, this person must be truly independent. I also believe that independence cannot be passed on in the way it is proposed to elect this director. It should really be elected by the Bulgarian Parliament. Only in this way can we guarantee the political independence of the director who will manage this Bureau. This is the first moment I would defend between first and second readings. The second moment is what qualities this person has. Trivial requirements are listed not to be tried, not to be a member of a political party, not to be with companies and so on. However, these are formal requirements. So far, all civil servants have been elected by complying with these requirements, but the effect is clear: in many places we do not have the right people chosen, although these requirements are formally met. The issue here is when choosing a director for the fight against corruption to apply an essential new approach other than the integrity test. What, for example, should this integrity test contain? There was a working meeting a month ago, organized by Mrs. Kuneva here in Bulgaria, in Sofia, where the director of the Anti-Corruption Bureau in Poland Mr. Voitunik attended. To my question, does the integrity test of a polyphysiographer include, Mr Voitunique replied: "Not only does it include, but periodically all Bureau staff are going through such a test. Yes, it is known that the results of this test can be manipulated, but this can be done by a limited range of people who have relevant skills and training, but for normal Bulgarian citizens who will become employees of this Bureau, for the director who will be a civil person, it is a problem that he must overcome and can overcome only if he is truly honest. Those integrity tests may not be evidence in court, but may be grounds for not choosing the person concerned. In addition, in English, especially in Australian legislation, there are also so-called simulation tests of integrity, simulations. There is created an environment where the person is tested for immunity against corruption risk, that is, would it give way in a controlled situation of pressure to corrupt himself? This should also be enshrined in the Law and in the requirements for the selection of employees who will work at the Anti-Corruption Bureau. And another thing. During these 25 years we have witnessed a number of corrupt practices that have become called by both politicians, magistrates and people from the special services of the Republic of Bulgaria. These are different schemes, some of which are completely legal, but talk about high corruption risk. For example, could the director of the Anti-Corruption Bureau be a person on the list of credit millionaires, officially located in the Bulgarian National Bank? I'm asking, may I? It's not illegal, but it's reprehensible! Could this man have been an officer or associate of the special services of the People's Republic of Bulgaria? It's not reproachable, but it's not moral!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u11	That's right!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u12	Could this person, for example, have participated in the management of bankrupt Bulgarian banks? Could this man, for example, have been involved in illegal trades implemented since 2007?! Could he, for example, have had a company that didn't pay its wages, insurance or sell it to a third party with large tax liabilities? You can see how many questions we have to ask this person if we are to find the right person to fight corruption, and I am not going to set myself politically against the majority of parliament. There is also a very interesting text that says the following: if there is a difference between the declared revenue and the actual actual actual state of the person with more than 10 thousand. BGN, starts checking for proof of property. Here we come to the holy saint of the Bulgarian transition. This is the most embarrassing question, which was never asked by the Bulgarian state no matter what the majority was. He is one: how did you earn your first million? Here I see an opportunity and I will personally provoke my fellow MPs between first and second readings, because what does it mean that a person in his capacity as a senior representative of the state or the judiciary, i.e. holding a senior public office, has come within the scope of the attention of the Anti-Corruption Bureau? What does that mean? This means having doubts that this person has committed, has applied corruption practices during his professional development. If it turns out that it was a credit millionaire, that is, once it was wrong; if it turns out that it was involved in illegal exchanges after 2007; if it turns out that it was a collaborator, officer or agent of the former special services of the People's Republic of Bulgaria; if it turns out that it was selling companies with large tax obligations to third parties, it means that in this second case it was detected in relapse. Then for this person the time for inspection should not be 10 years, as is the law. If we go back only 10 years, we will only find that this person has legally accumulated his wealth. In that case, in order for there to be prevention in the Law, it is important to return not 10 but 25 years, to track the entire growth of this person as a businessman, to see how it has accumulated its first million! Then here's the prevention. Anyone who has accumulated his wealth illegally will flee as a devil from corruption practice after the entry into force of this Law in order not to get the attention of the Anti-Corruption Commission. Now that's prevention! Prevention must bring respect, it must create serious problems for people who will be investigated! Now with regard to anonymous signals, the topic is too delicate for the Bulgarian society. Let's know this. Let us not become expressors of our own fears, of our own complexes! Let us not say what we would do to our political opponent if we had this power and not turn this into a principle of conduct. Anonymous signals, honourable Members, have been accepted not anywhere but in one of the oldest European democracies as it is in Britain. Right, there's a shade there. The nuance is following the police services investigate anonymous signals, but they do it absolutely discreetly! Even the investigator doesn't know he's being investigated for this anonymous tip. The real investigation begins only when it is proven that the data reported in the anonymous alert is justified! That's the English police. In the English Parliament is written the text that the Commissioner for Complaints there has a Commissioner for Complaints, can also deal with anonymous signals! I mean, he can, but he may not be looking. We have adopted the following in the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission, if we have an anonymous signal, not to look at it unless a Member of the Commission stands behind it and brings it in on its behalf. Let us distinguish between the Anti-Corruption Commission and the Anti-Corruption Bureau. The Commission has no investigative functions, it has no opportunity to verify an anonymous alert whether it is reliable or not and has rightly refused to look at anonymous signals. While the main role of this Bureau will be to conduct analyses, investigations, in-depth investigations, including requiring the fall of banking secrecy. It has investigative functions! To use all the power of the state in its work! So let's not give in to our own emotions. There could be a lot of anonymous signals, there could be an awful lot of slander in them! In England, they have created a very sensible and active system that can also be applied here for the so-called secure telephone lines and protected email addresses. This allows the Anti-Corruption Inspectors to communicate with the anonymous source, to ask questions, to receive answers, thus not revealing the identity of the anonymous source! People invented it, there's no point in us trying, forcing ourselves to do something that's already been created and implemented. With regard to criminal regulations. It's too big to pay from 300 to 3,000. lv. Here we must be clear that when it comes to infringement in this particular direction, the fines must be fixed! Between 300 and 3,000. lv. We are putting too much subjectiveism into these sanctions. Besides, I didn't read anywhere there's a special chapter to protect witnesses, to protect informants, to people who give the signals, I didn't see any sanctions if an employee of this Anti-Corruption Bureau illegally leaked information! Sanction must be one of the toughest. You know what I mean? Then we can now get the opposite effect of this effect, which was obtained by example after the changes with regard to the special services. At first they could not find associates because the groups had entered everywhere and what a man went to say in good faith, the group learned it first, and then, if there was a result of the work, the ministry. If we allow it, this Bureau will hang. It won't be able to work, it won't be able to function. Once again, I call on you at first reading today, we are giving a political request. Each of us, when voting for this Law, gives the following signal: not whether the Law is good or bad, but whether it is personal, as a representative of the National Assembly, for the fight against corruption or not! We cannot have abstentions under this Law! What does it mean to abstain from anti-corruption policy?! What does it mean to abstain? That means you don't agree with the proposed policy! And between first and second readings to give the maximum possible length of time, to make round tables, to invite civil organisations, to do a thorough analysis and texts to correct these imperfections that, for example, one side, another direction notice. But today, I call on all those we state in the electoral regions that we are against corruption to vote for this Law. This is extremely important, this is our political will! And in order to fight corruption, political will is fundamental. Now is the time to express this political will of ours today, not tomorrow, today! Therefore, I call on you to vote and support this Law! This is a law of the Council of Ministers, a law of the people who want justice in Bulgaria, although late! [[Applause from the Republic of Bulgaria, which is part of GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u13	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. You've almost half the time of your parliamentary group. Replies to that statement? I can't see. I will try, honourable Members, to make sure that we alternate the parliamentary groups. Mr. Dimitar Delchev is now available, after which Mr. Mihail Mikov, Mr. Karadayi from DPS, Mr. Bayraktarov from the Patriotic Front. If there are other requests, we move on. Here you go, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In discussing today the fight against corruption, I ask you to bear in mind that we are talking about the biggest barrier to more people living better in Bulgaria. Corruption drinks up the law in a country, eats up justice and consumes morals. Once he is done with this thing, there is nothing else left for investors, neither stable institutions, nor the authority of Bulgaria on the international stage. Colleagues, we have to understand where we are now and where we want to go. Currently, over 40 structures are involved in the fight against corruption and it is, to say the least, controversial. The fight against corruption is ineffective. The Commission for the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest has been working for more than a year in an incomplete composition. In 2014, it found the existence of a conflict of interest in eight cases of 366. Not to mention Borkor. Each report by the European Commission describes BORKOR as an enigmatic structure that is not clear what it is doing. It doesn't even come up with a report at the end of the year. We don't even know what the results of the work of BORKOR are. Facts are facts. In the case of widespread corruption since 2007, there have been convicted and sentenced to two persons. Today, Members of Parliament, is the time to answer the question: do we want this status quo to be maintained, or do we, on the contrary, want Bulgaria to advance in the fight against corruption? By voting for the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, we answer the question that we want to develop. The anti-corruption law is betting on a completely different model than the one that currently exists. He bets on a new Bureau, which will be a single body and which has more powers, to do deeper checks for conflict of interest and ultimately to have a greater opportunity to reveal the existence of corruption and the existence of conflict of interest. This Bureau will unite several bodies. It will unite the efforts of the entire country to fight corruption more effectively. Something I very much like about the Law is involving civil society in the fight against corruption. Here publicity and public control in this Law are the key words. Yes, many accept that the new measures will enter too deeply into the personal sphere of those represented, but this is not the case at first! Secondly, as the Court of Justice in Strasbourg has repeatedly cited, those holding public positions voluntarily give up part of their private territory in order to satisfy the interests of society in order to obtain the trust that we need in order to be elected. However, I would like to point out that this publicity, which this Law implies, has some limits. The employees of the Bureau of Corruption, and you will see this in the Law, have no right to export information that is on the checks before this proceedings are completed. They're personally responsible for this thing. I also hear a few concerns that there will be political repression. And I ask you, colleagues: will there be political repression for the first time in Bulgaria if this Law is adopted? Hasn't there ever been a political repression in the history of Bulgaria? [[Relations and calls from BSP LB.]] It's not the laws, it's not the laws that make the repression! [[Noise and lines on the left.]] People, people do repressions, colleagues! I'll give you an example if tonight, God forbid, a thief enters some of us, takes a knife from the kitchen locker and threatens you with it, what will you do? Will you throw all the knives out of your house? No. The Law on Corruption Prevention is an instrument for combating corruption and it is very important which people hold this instrument. [[Relations and calls from BSP LB.]] Here's the accent! [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u15	The time is extended.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u16	Colleagues! Colleagues, finally I would like to tell you this: I call on all the parliamentary groups to reconsider their decision, because this Law is a very good legal and technical method. I call on my colleagues from the Patriotic Front to think that before the meeting of the Legal Committee they had another political solution. They supported the Anti-Corruption Act at the meeting of the Legal Commission and should now be asking... I do not want to be in their place, to explain why they changed this political decision. But I am extremely sympathetic to the position of colleagues from the Patriotic Front and I make a commitment with colleagues from the Council of Ministers to sit together and remove all the things that bother them. [[Noise and lines.]] Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u17	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Just to let you know that the remaining time of the group is 10 seconds. Replies to that statement? I can't see. Mr. Mikov, come to the stand, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! You know that BSP left Bulgaria has a consistent position. We will not support this Law and will not support it because the speeches of the apologists of Kostov are difficult to endure, which the President used to say: "Ivane, tell yourself! And it is a little strange to me how you from GERB make a main speaker on the topic a person who is related to that period when the foundations of corruption practice were being poured out, Mr. Andreev. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] They poured, created, but this is part of the Bulgarian political landscape. In it, the sense of memory, of historicality, of facts is often absent. Only the volume and the screaming outline the density of the arguments. There are no serious arguments in this Law and was not proposed after a serious analysis: why has the so far functioning system, including the same pathos structure for conflict of interest, come to a scandal involving one person, one notebook and other things? It does not have an analysis of what from now on gives the Court of Auditors grounds for taking the functions of the register mechanically and putting them in this Law. It does not have a gram of arguments and an analysis of what of the famous structure BORKOR, in which many Bulgarian and European money was poured, did not work, so we mechanically take that function from there and put it here. In fact, there may be one answer, and the answer sounds in this statement: where there is fear, there is rule of law. No, ladies and gentlemen, in the democratic state, the rule of law is imposed by its universal application, not by fear. It's racketeering! [[Applause from BSP LB.]] This is a political racketeering, and the mechanisms for it are created precisely by the sole nature of this body, appointed by a single political faction or several, which has the executive power. And it's no accident to run away from opposition representation in this body. It must be the political racketeering instrument of the majority and the government. Do you think this will help fight corruption? Do you think this will not be another dead birth invention in an attempt to present to our European partners that we really want to deal with corruption? We from BSP left Bulgaria are convinced that this will not give a special result because if a person examines the building of the Law, he will see that the mechanical transfer of existing institutes gives nothing more, only political control. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot accept Mr. Andreev's observation that this Bureau will have investigative functions and I want the Deputy Prime Minister to clearly distinguish himself from this position. If there will be investigative functions, it should fit into the entire structure of the judiciary in Bulgaria and in the criminal process. If there won't be, and if the understanding that Mr. Andreev mentioned earlier that he would have investigative functions, then let's cancel the Code of Criminal Procedure because the strongest law that prevention should give is the Criminal Code. What does this mean for a year after being punished for conflict of interest, there is no right to borrow? Why a year? Why not ten years? Why not for life? I think it's more right. What if the conflict of interest has brought a benefit that will provide the old age, not only of his own, but of the grandchildren, and a year? That is, the nature of this Law is only to report once again to our partners a great will, a great effort and nothing more! Nothing more, because in a country where the rule of law is not respected, any laws that are adopted with otherwise quite emotional and sometimes justified speeches, media-blowed ones do not matter because they do not apply. Finally, we believe that this Law is a clear recognition of the inability not only to implement the laws on combating corruption, but to the inability to find a way to improve legislation in this sector. Thank you. Clearly, we have neither reason nor reason to support this law. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u19	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. - What's the line? You have an opportunity for a personal explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u20	I was accused of being part of a majority that committed criminal privatization. I would like to say the following that privatization is very reproachable and extremely reprehensible, but it was your members who benefited the most, Mr. Mikov. In your parliamentary group, there is one Mrs. Ninova, who during the time of the ODS government was quite well placed in these schemes and it was really. You, Mr. Mikov, were an important political factor at the time of Oresharski's reign when you elected Delyan Peevski as head of the DANS. What you are doing here is a simple propaganda why you should not fight corruption because your conscience is not clear, Mr. Mikov. [[Applause from GERB.]] Some of the biggest Zulus are finished in Northwestern Bulgaria, from where you are the MP, the poorest end, the most looted end during the transition. There you've always been a MP. So I ask you very much to be more precise and more precise in your speech, yet you are a good lawyer. You have now stated that BSP does not want to fight corruption. That's what I can say. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u22	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u23	Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, what was heard before me from the stands was a line. I ask you to apply the Rules of Procedure and give me the right to the duplicate, because no part of the content was related to any personal explanation. She was disproveing facts. [[GERB lines]] He attacked personally, and according to the rules of the Assembly, I must have the right to answer with the back. [[Reply and applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u25	Mr. Mikov, I asked if there was a line, therefore a hand was raised, then in the process of moving towards the stands Mr. Andreev said that he wanted a personal explanation, and I gave him an opportunity for a personal explanation. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, it is your right and duty to judge because...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u27	I thought this was an opportunity for a personal explanation. Twice he was mentioned by name and I gave him the opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u28	No, it's not to be mentioned by name. It's about disproven facts, artificial suggestion, lies that I can't answer. [[Noise and lines from "Attacka."]] And I'm asking you for a douche. [[Noise and lines from "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u29	Thank you, Mr. Mikov, I understand. Next statement Mr. Karadayi, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! The main objective of the Bill is to create a functioning system for verification of property declarations and for establishing a conflict of interest by creating a new and unified anti-corruption body. However, in our opinion, it does not only not fulfil its objective, but also creates conditions for repression, for political self-harm, for blackmailing the politically inconvenient and all persons falling within the scope of this bill. Generally speaking, this bill legitimizes and facilitates the "Zlatanov" model and creates additional conditions for corruption instead of fighting it. Moreover, if Philip Zlatanov had moments in which he had failed to prevail over the other members of the collective body and failed to adopt decisions to establish the existence or absence of conflict of interest, then after the adoption of this Law in this form this obstacle would completely be removed, because as an alternative it is proposed that not only the collective body be replaced by a sole body but his director be proposed for appointment by the Council of Ministers. Colleagues, who is the generator of corruption and who can be corrupted? Naturally, he who has real power of authority and actually disposes of public resources, that is, the executive power, the central and the local authorities. And in the end, what does it turn out to be? That corruption generators will fight a body that is practically appointed by the one that generates corruption. The way in which the Director of the National Bureau is appointed and released and the power given to him gives us reason to believe that the holder of that position will not only be independent, which is a condition laid down in the reasons of the Bill, but will have a huge amount of information about each of the persons whose position falls within the scope of the Bill, which information does not even have anything to serve him after the inspection, and no order and penalty for its non-use for other purposes is foreseen. Moreover, the Director should go through an integrity test. To whom: before the authority appointing him, to the authority proposing him to appoint him or to the body to which he reports his activity?! The method of appointment and dismissal of the staff shall be identical. They shall be appointed by the Director on the condition of a successful integrity check and its non-passion shall give rise to the dismissal. That is to say, the foregoing gives us reason to believe that not only the Director but also the entire body will be subject to certain political interests and will be an instrument for solving close party interests, to suppress and eliminate the inconvenient ones. In Chapter 5 of the proposed Draft, the texts of the current Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest are fully rewritten, without even removing the vices causing problems in the implementation of a large part of the provisions, both in relation to compatibility and with the determination of sanctions and the consequences of decisions in force which have identified the existence of conflict of interest. The vices in relation to the revocation of the remuneration received from the relationship or the act giving rise to a conflict of interest have not been eliminated................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It is envisaged that the conflict of interest proceedings will be initiated by order of the Director, gathering evidence under the APC and holding a hearing procedure for the person. By whom? From the expert, from the director, or should I not list the others?! I'll just mark two more things. We can't support something that introduces anonymous signals. This would lead to a daily witch hunt and a debauching of people, as one colleague said. Additional conditions for incompatibility are introduced, I pay attention once again to the municipal councillors. After the local elections, what are we gonna do? We're going to re-choose them because most of these people, who would now be chosen, would fall into this field. And another thing we heard here today from the ruling majority. Freedom, along with the uniform application of the laws, is the way to fight corruption, not fear, as we have heard. Fear is a tool for racketeering, extortion and coercion. The key to fighting corruption is freedom and uniform enforcement of laws. It is precisely and precisely because of these considerations at first reading that we could not support this bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u31	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Your group's remaining time is about a minute. Replies to that statement? Here you go, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We heard a statement as a definite triumph of self-forgotten politicians. That sounds like an oxymoron to me. We're talking about corruption, we're talking about things that happened at the same time, and yet to happen, we're talking about repression. Let me just remind you that the MP in question as Vice-President of the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control managed to obtain a hundred-dollar apartment for the amount of nearly 11,000. lv. [[Applause from RB. Noise and lines from DPS.]] Then his group came out and said he was repressed. This is the kind of repression I wish for each of you, colleagues from the hall and journalists to be repressed with one apartment of 100 square feet, worth over 100 thousand. BGN, and thus feel terribly repressed. And here comes a man who, instead of guilty of silence and looking for a way to fix the law, speculation with a position and political scam, comes out and states well that he has read the report several times, so he can articulate part of the sentences.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u33	Please stick to the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u34	He had a hard time with complicated subjunctive sentences, but we got something. All this smells to me nothing more than the characteristic insolence of the so-called "systemic DPS" party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u35	Thank you. Second line? Mr. Karadaye, you have an opportunity for a dot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will respond to Mr. Nikolov's remark with the shorthand and the statement of Mr. Nikolov from the same parliamentary group today on this particular bill. He motivated his behavior and said that he would vote abstention because what is enshrined in this Bill can be included in the category of lie, slander, plotting that we are hearing right now. A person who is aware of how and in what way, and has all the documents, and keeping, and the laws, and the amounts of which he speaks are different in the documents he possesses, comes out, lies, slanders and indicts from the stands of the National Assembly. These were Mr. Nikolov's arguments and motives. A man from his parliamentary group proved it today from this tribune. That is why we will not support this bill. That's my answer to that line, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u37	Thank you. [[National Representative Valentin Kasabov wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] Please see It's about the doppelganger. Next statement said Mr. Siderov. I don't see Mr. Siderov. Mr. Belemezov, come in for a statement. [[Heckling]] I'm taking turns with the parliamentary groups. I explained earlier. [[Heckling]] The first statement was Mr. Nikolov's. Mr. Belemezov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u38	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The bill was developed in implementation of the measures provided for in the National Strategy for Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2015 - 2020. First of all, I would like to mention that they see the good intentions of the importers, but, on the other hand, there are a number of imperfections in the bill and, in a sense, it is a bearer of legal eclectics. It is apparent from the Law and its motives that its direct aim is to establish a system of verification of property declarations and to establish a conflict of interest through the creation of a new single anti-corruption body. The National Anti-Corruption Prevention Bureau will be the successor of the Commission to prevent and establish conflicts of interest and the Center for Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption and Organized Crime at the Council of Ministers. So far, so good. It is paradoxical, however, that the National Bureau will be appointed by the Council of Ministers, which analysts say is markedly contradictory, given that the main focus of the measures laid down in the Bill is to combat high-level corruption precisely at the level of executive power, where the same analysts, commenting on the Bill, consider it to be the largest concentration of corruption. The fact that the body will be offered by the Council of Ministers and will be appointed with a President's Decree does not, in fact, guarantee that this National Bureau will have equal distance from all institutions and will preserve the principle of corruption investigation of established cases. This sole body raises questions about the qualities of the person who should be managing the bureau in question. One of the most important qualities, of course, is whether or not this person is a carrier of party and political impartiality. Secondly, there is the controversial legal argumentation in the clear definition of the debtors and the data they declare. The circle of persons having public functions which are subject to the declaration of data is extended and the circle of circumstances to be declared is extended. A novelty in the Law and a certain legal imperfection is the obligation to declare the property, notice, colleagues, and the income of the person with whom the responsibilities are in actual marital cohabitation. Third, a form of legal nihilism emerges, allowing production to be initiated on an alert, including an anonymous one, as well as a media publication, as long as they contain sufficient evidence of unexplained wealth and/or allegations of specific corrupt behaviour of a person holding a senior public office, according to the reasons of the Bill. Inductively, I would mention that there are a number of controversial moments where the following is not clear: has an analysis of the work of the institutions directly involved in the fight against corruption been carried out so far? Secondly: are or are conditions not created for political procurement, for example, by increasing the circle of persons who need to declare their data? Thirdly: is it created or not created through the Law an environment that prevents corruption and acts more preventively, or is it actually the National Bureau in question and the Draft Law of its resulting decisions to investigate functions and cases that are already a fact? Fourth: Does the Draft motivate the controversial operational and functional obligations of the National Bureau for Prevention of Corruption? In conclusion, colleagues, I will allow myself to say the following. The day before yesterday, on the first working day of the autumn session of the Forty-third National Assembly, each of the parliamentary groups proclaimed their declarations. The focus of the ABB declaration was on the political spirit of the current parliament and the level of coalition governance. Colleagues, the spirit and functional message of the ABB Parliamentary Group for the upcoming parliamentary session, however, is rooted in contextually in the principle of conducting coalition policy. Yes, in our view, coalition relations must be accompanied by compromise, but, I say, a great "no" relationship, the meaning of coalition relations will be termed if we rely on our solutions only and solely on compromise. In a bill, we must seek not the mutual discretion and rotation of the discussions, but rather the quality. I dare say that when a bill abounds with reason, long-termity, articulate reasoning and motivation, this bill has a serious future, around the qualities of which the majority of parliamentary groups and MPs will unite. However, when a bill lacks quality, there is nothing left for us in the course of its discussion but to seek the compromise. It is at this very moment, my fellow Members, that we deprive society of legislative decisions that will benefit people and which will bring a huge dose of rationality and efficiency, namely to contribute with concrete results from tomorrow. We clearly rely on the various signals resulting from the public mood, on the one hand, and our international partners, on the other, on the need to introduce radical measures in the fight against corruption. We do not stop legislative development in this direction, but we expect a law sustained from all points of view, precisely because matter is extremely delicate. Far from it, we do not think that the bill under discussion today is capable of dealing with the challenges of the day, we do not believe that it is analysed in depth and that it has the necessary spatial and long-term horizons. Given these reasons, for the fact that the current Bill is filled with imperfections, the ABB Parliamentary Group will refrain from supporting it at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u39	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Siderov, welcome to the stands!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u40	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, fellow Members! I say we don't waste any more parliamentary time. Let's get this debate over with and this disgraceful theatrical spectacle that's being played out right now. We are discussing the so-called Anti-Corruption Act proposed by whom? From Meglena Kuneva's face. Meglena Kuneva will fight corruption! Well, it's like a serial killer proposing a law on the protection of the value of human life. [[Noise and lines from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u41	Mr. Siderov...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u42	It's like a pedophile recitist proposing a child protection law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u43	Mr. Siderov, please observe the ethics of words!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u44	Those who yell at me, don't you remember? Some of you and I have fought against Meglena Kuneva. Some of you and I were together when we exposed her as a national traitor. This is the man who betrayed Bulgaria's interests in the negotiations with the European Union. This is the person who lied to the Bulgarian society that Kozloduy NPP should be closed because there was such a decision of the European Commission. We did a background check. There's no such solution. This is the man who lied to the entire Bulgarian society, caused billions of damage to Bulgaria. This man must stand trial, be tried for the doing of enormous damage, in an incredibly large amount damage to Bulgaria. And now he proposes an incompetent law, incompetently written, talentlessly written, and as one big Bulgarian poet Lyubomir Levchev says: "The gift is fascism." It's a fascist law and a new Gestapo is being made.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u45	Mr. Siderov, please! I'm interrupting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u46	Why are you interrupting me? You have no right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u47	I remind you to stick to the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u48	I'm sticking to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u49	Under art. 151 I remind you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u50	Yeah, I'm sticking, Mr. Chairman, right to the point. The creation of a new Gestapo is being prepared and is looking for someone to be a new Heinrich Muller, Gruppenfuhrer Muller. Who's Mueller gonna be? There's one candidate here already. Where'd he go? Just a moment ago, he spilled saliva on his microphones and foam came out of his mouth when he was talking. You've got one candidate already "Metodi Müller." [[Applause by "Attacka."]] We absolutely must put an end to this hypocrisy and say clearly: first, that Meglena Kuneva has no place in this government. I am very sorry for those who proposed it and voted for it. This is a person who needs to be investigated and explain: what position did he receive at the Bank of Paris, for how much money after he destroyed the Bulgarian nuclear power plant? How much did you get as commissioner? Twenty thousand euros! This guy's gonna talk to me about investigating, corruption, property and so on. I'm sorry, but these things have to be said, we can't pretend that we don't know who's standing here proposing this Law. You want to investigate 25 years ago. Well, investigate! Start from the face of Kuneva, dear reformers. Start with her and you'll see what happens. She, who was in all the parties that were in the NDSV. The NDSV sold BTC for pennies. So now the current is hugely priced and we're wondering how to put the energy on track. We can't get her back on track because she's part of this criminal government that sold BTC and Energo for pennies. The Energo, the ERPs were sold by this government, whose composition it was, which aired Meglena Kuneva for a negotiating commissioner afterwards. And now we will talk, we will discuss her Law as if it were falling with yesterday's rain and offering something that the Bulgarian Parliament must accept. No, I must not accept anything offered by Kuneva. That's my opinion. This is the opinion of our parliamentary group. We boycott Meglena Kuneva. We insist on her being investigated and when all her assets, income, income and whatever she's had over the years, then if she likes someone to offer on her behalf something. That's all I can tell you for now. If you want, if anyone is willing to learn more about Kuneva, to run the archive on Skat TV. There are a number of shows in which I and the then chief, today's MP Mr. Simeonov, Mr. Simeonov, come to add here......................we have exposed Kuneva as a national traitor. Is that right? Deny it if you can! You can't! [[Voices by "Attacka": "Bravo!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u51	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Mr. Kanev? Here you are, Mr. Kanev. There's no line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, disrespectful Mr. Siderov! I strongly object to the admission of direct insulting, defamatory and vulgar statements from the stands of the National Assembly. We here have been trying for nearly a year to keep some decent tone in this parliament with delicate balances. [[Shouting from BSP LB.]] I understand from the BSP that you are protecting Siderov. Please, I'm not surprised. [[Noise and lines from the hall.]] But really, first of all, an absolutely unacceptable tone. Secondly, colleagues, let us not hide our fear of investigating corruption, our property and business ties behind personal hoaxes. Go out and say: I'm scared, I don't want any more information published about me, I'm worried about this Law, I'm worried about this Bureau. Don't insult people! [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u53	Please be quiet in the hall! Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Next statement? Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u54	May I have the word?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u55	No, I won't give you the floor. You have no right to a personal explanation. You are not mentioned in terms of speech. Look at your rules! [[Noise and lines from "Attacka."]] Mr. Bayraktarov, come in! I gave the word to Mr. Bayraktarov. I'd given it away. [[SPEAKING SPANISH]] Mr. Bayraktarov, come in!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u56	Procedure shall be given immediately. [[Noise from the auditorium.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u57	I had given the first word to Mr. Bayraktarov. You can check it out. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov. Please take your place, Mr. Ermenkov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u58	In fact, it was clear from all the statements that at least there was no one to come out and accuse us from SKAT TV that we did not fight corruption.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u59	Enough advertising!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u60	Two big questions arise, colleagues. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, we from the Patriotic Front have taken this extremely seriously, we have met very carefully and we have made a different reading of the draft proposed by you. In fact, the big question before you today is: is it normal to adopt a Law which, out of all the speeches we have heard, must be completely revised to a second vote, that is to say, its philosophy should be completely changed? But that's not probably the biggest problem. I think that even you yourself would not agree to accept and process an entirely such bill. The bigger problem is that with this Bill, in a careful reading, we are not creating an anti-corruption body, but the opposite, a body that generates corruption. Because the practice has shown two main points for the existence of corruption. One of those moments is unpunished. Is the fact of the most inexplicable wealth of the most famous hydrologist in Bulgaria not obvious, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister? It's an obvious fact. It's huge properties along the coast. Does anything prevent the law from investigating them now? No, it's okay. With what, however, will this Bureau begin to carry out such investigations? Is it not a public secret that the huge thefts in the sector are high-level political and high-ranking people? Nobody's investigating them. And now in art. 208 of the PPC is given the possibility for the relevant authorities, in the case of the Prosecution, to consult themselves on a legitimate basis. Except she doesn't. It is for this reason that I say that this Law creates a body that generates corruption. Because, pay attention, colleagues: the director of this Bureau actually represents a person who has unlimited immunity. We don't even know how this director and his deputy will be checked out because [[the President signals that time has run out]] According to the law, this will be established rules by the Committee on Corruption, and it itself is against everything that is proposed in this Bill. That's exactly why...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u61	Please end it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u62	I'm done, Mr. Chairman. It is for this reason that we from the Patriotic Front cannot pass a law that also protects corruption. That's the reason. And I believe every sane thinker will give himself a clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u63	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Ermenkov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u64	Dear Mr. President, I take this procedure in the manner of conduct, because you are not enough that we are discussing a law that is vicious, but you are trying to do this discussion in a vicious way, by leading the meeting in a vicious way. A moment ago, when Mr. Radan Kanev came out to make a remark in the manner of conduct, he used the unholy Mr. Siderov. Whether this will be Mr. Siderov, Ivanov, Petrov or Ganchev, it does not matter at all, but this is now a direct insult and reason of the person who is so called to take the procedure as a personal explanation! [[Shouts: "Bravo!" and single applauses by "Attack."]] Because the dignity of the Members of the National Assembly must be protected by themselves and by you, Mr President, as the first among equals, currently leading the meeting. Otherwise, you are really entering into the style of the law that we are discussing - wickedness, the so-called presumption of guilt of someone who is speaking, you are telling the people you are comfortable to suggest, interrupting those you are comfortable interrupting. This can't be a way of leading, Mr. Chairman! It's just a way to illustrate your approach to a serious problem that we are discussing here, and once again I say, entering into the style of the law - wickedness, wickedness, wickedness! [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause by "Attack."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u65	Resign!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u66	Mr. Ermenkov, you can check the transcript. I've been completely following the rules. Next statement Mr. Nikolov from the Parliamentary Group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u67	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We will support the Group of GERB. We will support it because philosophy is important, and that is what we have tried with several speeches to try to convince you. The title itself that we are looking at the Law on the Prevention of Corruption among public officials, that we are looking at its very title, must speak a lot. [[(The People's Representative Dimitar Glauchev enters. To the left: A-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a, b-a-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b-a, b, b-a, b-a, b, b, b, b, b, b, b, b, ……]] From what I hear on the left, I understand that colleagues do not want us to deal with corruption at all, but, colleagues, and there are laws that are currently in force. There's two of them. We have nothing newer, more like the unification of two laws that are functioning at the moment and which are further developed. And right now we have organs dealing with this thing, and the goal is to unite. At the moment they are not few, they are, we know, three institutions, not to list them. In this Law, the interesting thing is that we are still expanding the circle of persons who have to submit declarations. The circle of declared circumstances is extended. Like you, I have certain concerns, but this government, with this action, I think it will make it clear to Europe that we are against corruption and we are trying to create something new. I agree that a lot of changes must be made at second reading. Some of them are related to anonymous signals, to publications and media referrals, through media publications that should not be approached. These are things that need to be reworked, which we need to pay serious attention to. However, the act of adoption at first reading of this law itself is very important to give a clear sign of what we are currently fighting for and what the vision of this Parliament is. I also have great reservations regarding the checks that the employees have to pass, and these are the integrity checks. I think that I have also made speeches in the Committee on Budget and Finance in this direction, and it is important that working groups, if the Law is passed at first reading, draw particular attention to this thing because an integrity check is a very common concept. There must be clear criteria for which to be, otherwise it will still be a tool for deciding whether an employee is doing a particular job or not. With this, colleagues, I will not bore you with long speeches, but I think it is important that we do and show that this Parliament has a clear vision regarding the fight against corruption. This will show up with our vote. Further, with serious debates and a long period of time between the two readings, we will be able to correct by this law the things that concern us and on which we believe that we have serious comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u68	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. - What's the line? I won't. The next person to make a statement is Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u69	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! I must also recall the views of the committees which discussed the bill, in particular the Legal Commission, as the two parts of the meeting are in motion. The debate in the Legal Committee was also quite heated. I would like to state the following. Colleagues on the left, I apologize to the leadership for allowing myself to violate the Rules of Procedure to enter into a debate with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u70	You haven't yet, and I hope you don't break it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u71	I'm holding back, Mr. Chairman, but I'm asking you to...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u72	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u73	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u74	Proceed, Mr. Kirilov. The previous speaker, obviously based on the debates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, told you the following: much of the legislative decisions are a fact, they are laid down in existing regulations. We have several institutions which, for a number of reasons, will not enter into systemic and institutional analysis, have difficulties, including there is a regulatory deficit in terms of carrying out their functions. I recall the Committee on the Commission for Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests, I recall the Bill of Maya Manolova and Kiril Dobrev, who in the last Parliament could not reach a final second reading. Indeed, the previous speakers are digging up some reservations. I, on the Legal Committee, congratulated the Deputy Prime Minister on her work and her team. They had the hard task of solving a legal problem and an institutional-functioning problem, and solving it according to the requirements, including the requirements that are in European legislation and the standard, I would say, for good faith and fighting corruption. Yes, there is a proposed Project at first reading, which obviously excites reactions to some of the topics and questions. Colleagues, the First Reading Bill is a proposal for a debate. If we agree with the principles that we have so far adopted, which we have so far established in legislation, we need to confirm them. We cannot, on the occasion of a request to improve the legislation to derogate from what has already been achieved. The register for the publicity of public persons' property is currently acting and acting successfully. This order has been established, the statements are published, the audience already has these facts, which some colleagues fear will be found out. No one in this Chamber should feel fear or doubt that facts concerning its property should and can be disclosed. It's an established principle. Based on the National Bureau's construction: I have stated in the Legal Commission, I now confirm that this proposal is accepted as a proposal for a debate. It is possible to discuss the institutional place and form of this body as well as to be single or collective, but since so far we have a problem with the collective committee With regard to the appointing authority. Okay, the parliamentary Republic is Bulgaria, no one is arguing about it. A regime has been proposed that is obviously looking for an analogy with the State Agency for National Security. Yes, but we can discuss it, you can make suggestions, why should we stop the debate at first reading? Let us allow the debate to continue and continue with proposals for a second reading, let the majority and the debate reach and lead to a solution and an option that will be supported by a majority by consensus, I hope, as wide as possible. I am concerned that, in practice, the debate so far has declared a lack of political will. We have no right to be absent from this will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u75	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I won't. I don't see any other statements being made. [[Noise and lines.]] You do?! I'm sorry. Here you go. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] I've already given you my word. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! I will try not to repeat what was brought out here in the debate before vacation and now, regarding the Bureau. Of course, we're at first reading. It is true that at first reading here the speeches are more political, but I will try legally to raise some questions. It was mentioned about what authority is the Bureau single or collective? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 is recorded that the National Bureau of Implementation is the authority, there is one director who runs and represents the Bureau. Of course, this may originate from the mechanical unification of the rules governing the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests and the Law which gave powers to the Court of Auditors for the verification of property to the persons. Further, by reading the Law, you will see how this mechanical unification really makes a duality. The Director of the Bureau shall, in the case of a conflict of interest check, give a reasoned decision, which shall be subject to appeal. The Director is so independent that he serves as a postman and forwards the report to the inspectors and does not rule by any act. I am not saying that there should be an act or a decision to be appealed, because that reference is addressed respectively to the Commission for the withdrawal of the property, the SANS, the NRA and so on. So, what kind of body is the Bureau? These are things that are fixes between first and second readings, because in principle the bill unites the regulation of relations regulated in two laws. It is better to really have one law, to have one body where to submit property declarations and where to submit declarations of conflict of interest. I will not dwell on the question of how the Director will be elected, how the Bureau will be appointed, at least now in the Law, because there are powers given to inspectors who are preparing a report. As regards the protection of citizens' rights in respect of property compliance checks and inexplicable wealth, yes, it is said that all evidence is provided to the verified person, it may make requests for new evidence. If these demands are not respected, what happens? I think that between first and second readings we should focus on this part as well. Yes, it is said that the report from the audit act of the person is presented and may request and make objections to the relevant head of the tax administration, which will respect it or not. At least here in this part we really do, because we are introducing new powers to check for compliance of income and for unexplained wealth, we need to be firm that we will also defend the rights of the checked person. Nothing prevents the report from being submitted to the person under review and from making requests for additional evidence within a reasonable period of 7 days or 14 days to be or not to be respected and the evidence may be collected but legally misinterpreted. As far as anonymous signals are concerned. So, as is written in this Law, I guess this is not the idea of importers, with an anonymous signal, however credible, and it can be formally very credible that the person Let's check, start a preliminary check to establish the authenticity of the anonymous signal. If it is not credible, this check will not be initiated. Because otherwise we will be faced with the hypothesis, as the Law does not clearly define the criteria of who, after all, order the initiation of the procedure. He's not in the law. Is the director in charge? It's normal to be the director after representing the Bureau. Or which authority will initiate the real verification procedure or conflict of interest? As far as the anonymous tip goes, I think these things are fixable. And one more thing. In the current Law on Conflict of Interest, there is a procedure and it is recorded in this Law on the termination of proceedings when a conflict of interest is established, but there is no such norm in the part of the verification of property status. What's going on?! Will the inspection be terminated if it is not established? It is normal that it has to be stopped and this must be an act to be presented to the person. It must be provided with this act, because otherwise it remains unclear. We are talking about publicity and transparency of these checks. Even when they end up with a result for which the other authorities need to refer, it must be public. However, when completed with a negative result, it must also be public. I have some other remarks. For example, I am impressed with the Bill the difference with the current norm. It is said that real estate is declared abroad, and below are the hypotheses of movable property. The current law states that property is declared abroad, which includes movable and immovable property. It is also the same in the statement of claims, claims. And the property includes other than movable property moving items, claims and so on. Maybe this is a technical error in discharge? In the first point is written "real property" and is not written in the main text that it is declared in the country and abroad and to be declared movable and immovable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u77	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. - What's the line? Mr. Stanislav Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I have a few very specific questions for you first. The first and most important is why did you hide from us and the Bulgarian society the assessment of the President of the Greco Mr. Marin Marcella, who reaffirmed Greco's recommendation that there is no need to create a new body, but enough is the institutions charged with fighting corruption to fulfil their powers?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u79	Oh, yeah?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u80	I'm asking you, Mrs. Kuneva. I understand very well why you panicfully import this Bill and that you want to do something very visible in the field of fighting corruption, which will reflect positively in the next report, but where in the reports on SIVien, Mrs. Kuneva, have you seen criticism of the laws on the publicity of the property of the persons and under the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests? Where did you see criticism of the Court of Auditors and KUPKI (Commission for Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest)? Why are you in such a hurry to extrapolate their functions? Not to mention the legislative and institutional mess that will mix up the proposed bill What kind of legislative technique is this?! Mrs. Kuneva, there is no way you can compensate non-working institutions with institutional construction! It seems to me that the hope of the next report being a little more positive as a result of this Bill is rather a result of self-conception than an assessment of the impact of the act. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u81	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Any lines to that statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? There aren't any. I finally give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva to make a summary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u82	Have you closed the discussion?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u83	No, no. Here you are, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u84	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This is the second part of the debate that started on the last day of the parliamentary session before the vacation. Therefore, I will not repeat the things with which I opened the debate, but rather concentrate on the answer to some of your concerns. First of all, I would like to say that I have tabled on behalf of the Council of Ministers and I am defending on behalf of the Council of Ministers a good bill. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] If you want to make it perfect, I wish you success, I will work with you! On behalf of the Council of Ministers, we have set criteria for a good director of the Anti-Corruption Bureau. If you want to make this man look like an angel with his requirements, I wish you success, I will work with you! Until we have found the perfect way to solve problems, however, let us not miss the chance to do good, and this Law does give such an opportunity. I would like to say to the honourable Mr. Mikov a few things, in fact, to repeat what I started with in the different parliamentary groups. Yes, an analysis of the implementation of anti-corruption policies is unnecessary. The law is on a very serious basis. The external assessment of the integrated strategy was published. I stress the external assessment. We have adopted a new anti-corruption strategy on April 9th. The government has appointed a national co-ordinator for anti-corruption policies. A specialized unit of the Prosecutor's Office, DANS, Ministry of Interior for investigating crimes committed by persons holding senior state positions has started working. We created the National Anti-Corruption Policy Council as an inter-agency coordination body. We created the National Anti-Corruption Policy Council, which adopted a plan to implement the measures under the strategy. We have also presented this Bill, which we are now examining with you, and the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administration. What I have heard today, in fact, from your speeches, does not put the philosophy of the Law in question at large. We all agree that we need new concentrated efforts and that they are linked to high-level corruption. This Law does not deal with everything related to corruption, so I have listed what has been done in other areas. He deals with a certain volume of tasks. Yes, Mr. Atanasov, be absolutely calm, I will not miss the European Commission: in the mid-term report in June, the bill, which was then published on the page translated into English, was reported as very good. Mr. Marcella invited him. What he said is something we all know he's right. Even bad law is better than nothing. At the moment, we have laws that, if we apply them properly, will work. It's about the will to apply. As for the proposal to have a single body, this is the main proposal in the Justice and Home Affairs Assessment Report. Here you can be absolutely calm. The tasks of this Law relate to the scope of persons who are more concentrated and targeted, while adding new persons for whom there is a serious risk of corruption practices. The question of whether the body should be single or collegiate, I think that most of you, even some of the opposition's MPs, believe that it is better that the body should be single, as proposed in the Bill. On the issue of whether to be elected by the National Assembly, or to be proposed now in a complex factual composition, the Council of Ministers plus the President, I have given my arguments. The final decision is yours. I believe that it is a strong authority that has the task of imposing the Law when it is proposed by the executive and confirmed by the President, who is directly elected, as you are directly elected by the people, and has sufficient guarantees for his independence. If we constantly suspect that the Law will be distorted, whether on behalf of the legislature or the executive, if we have such suspicions, it will not lead to a good end! I believe that the Law could be a field of consensus, not a field of battle. Most of the things you said, I have specific answers. I will answer something to the MP Mr. Velizar Enchev. He quotes something quite specific: can individuals over 18 be checked in a thorough inspection? That's his recommendation. Mr. Enchev, in art. 38, para. 5, if this will help you to support the Law and vote for the Law, it is said that persons up to 18 years of age may also be part of this check. In fact, separation is also something that exists in our law. Regarding the investigative functions, it is clear what Mr. Mikov said that this body does not copy the functions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, as well as what we understand under Colleagues, we have investigative journalism we're talking about. Let's not narrow down the scope of the word "interrogative" and keep in mind that it has a much wider civic sound. With regard to fines, this is indeed an interesting question. I'm ready to discuss it. Let's be a percentage of the income of the person. For example, it is in Finland. Recently, there was a very interesting fact that went around the international agencies? One of the very rich people in Finland was fined for driving only 10 km above the permissible speed of 80 thousand. euros just because it's on that kind of income. When it is a percentage of income, for him this fine is so, and for another who is 20 times lower income will accordingly be different. I am ready to discuss how the Law should be more effective, how it should be stricter and how it should be more effective. But in terms of its necessity and that it is systematic and not taken from different parts, I never allow myself to throw away something that works. In the arrangement, in the form of this Law lies its power. I would like to conclude by saying that it can be supported at first reading with different parliamentary geometry. I hope that there will be colleagues, first of all from the parties who support the government, who will re-evaluate their opinion in the coming minutes and will support the need to adopt this Law. It's a first reading. We have no differences in its design and its necessity. I also hope that the opposition will see its chance for this Law to be a law not only of the Council of Ministers, we are importers, it will be a law of this National Assembly. And after all, if it were to be adopted with the votes of GERB and the Reformation bloc, it would be great for GERB and the Reformation bloc. [[Applause from RB and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. The debate is closed. We are voting at first reading the Law on the Prevention of Corruption among senior public officials, No 502-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2015. Vote 212 MPs: for 102, against 39, abstention 71. The bill hasn't been passed. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]] Revoting Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u86	Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, I would like to re-vote the newly voted bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u87	Thank you. There are colleagues who have failed to vote. They voted 211 MPs: for 101, against 38, abstention 72. The bill hasn't been passed. Negative vote please, Mr. Ermenkov. [[Radio, noise and lines in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! You don't seem to be interested in the negative vote on why we voted negative, but I will say it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u89	Please express your negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u90	I voted negatively not because I am against the fight against high-level corruption, but because I am astonished how people who are democratic can try and vote a law with 101 people in this hall, which returns the years of Vishinski, who returns the years of HK (By chance commissial in Bordeaux with contribution, sabotage and Speculium), who returns that extraordinary legislation where everyone feels guilty because the neighbor can frame him! This was not a fight against corruption. It was an attempt to introduce a single snitch power into a democratic republic that has been trying to stand on democratic tracks for 25 years! There is no way to support such a law! Thanks to everyone who didn't support him. It's a real democratism! This means that we do not go on the plane of the so-called "popularism" but we vote in conscience! We are really looking for a solution to fight corruption, but on a legitimate, normal, democratic path! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u91	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. There are no other requests for negative vote. [[Radio, MPs from all parliamentary groups are talking to or leaving groups in the Chamber.]] Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION TO ENFORCEMENT OF THE CONVENTION FOR CASECTIONS AND THE CONVENTION FOR THE PROVERSION OF USE, CODEING, PRODUCTION AND TRANSFER OF PROVOPECTION MINUTES AND FOR THE THING. It was introduced by Valentin Radev and a group of MPs on 8 July 2015. [[The excitement in the hall continues.]] I ask the Members of the National Assembly to take their seats so that we can continue the work in plenary. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, please take your seats or, if you are going to conduct any meetings, be outside the Chamber. The Quaestors, please ensure order in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u92	Opinions of the Standing Committees are presented. The Committee on Defence is the lead. Here you are, Mr. Manushev, to present her report. There was a call in the House for the MPs to sit down and the talks to continue outside. If you please from all sides, take your seats. Here you go, Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u93	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll introduce you. ♪ I can't believe of the Defence Committee, on A bill implementing the Convention on Cassette Munitions and the Convention prohibiting the use, storage, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and their destruction, No 554-01-131, submitted by Valentin Ivanov Radev and a group of MPs On 8 July 2015, the Council adopted Decision At a regular meeting held on 23 July 2015, the Defence Committee discussed on the first vote a bill implementing the Convention on Munitions and the Convention prohibiting the use, storage, production and transfer of landmines and their destruction, submitted by Valentin Ivanov Radev and a group of MPs on 8 July 2015. The meeting was attended by 15 MPs. Representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior and the President of the Union of Military Disabilities and Military Victims took part in the Commission's work. The bill was presented by the MP Valentin Ivanov Radev, who also outlined the reasons for his submission to the National Assembly. The bill proposes to introduce an imperative ban on carrying out all kinds of activities, with the exception of those authorised under the Convention on Munitions and the Convention on Anti-personnel Mines. In his speech he noted the need to adopt such a law, which will meet the expectations of the public to solve the problem of the utilization of ammunition in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. More effective control of this process was outlined in the Bill and it was noted that the Ministry of Defence holds the largest professional capacity for the implementation of the utilization activities. The interaction between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior has been noted in the issuance of authorisations for ammunition utilisation activities, the process of utilization, training and protection of health and life in ammunition disposal activities. Opinions on the proposed Draft Law of the Ministry of Defence presented the Deputy Minister of Defence Dimitar Kyumurdzhiev, Deputy Minister of Interior Krasimir Tzipov. Mr. Petar Velchev, Chairman of the Union of Military Disabilities and Military Victims, presented the opinion of the Union. The Chairman of the Defence Committee Miho Mihov presented opinions on the draft law of the Law Commission of the National Assembly, of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, of the Executive Agency. The opinions support the idea of establishing a legal document implementing the Convention on Munitions and the Convention prohibiting the use, storage, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and their destruction. In the opinion of the Ministry of Defence, the lack of understanding of the philosophy of the proposed draft law and its need to meet the expectations of society was evident. It was not noted that the best specialists in this area are precisely in the Bulgarian Army and the solution of the problem of the utilization of ammunition, the technology of the activity when working with them and the protection of the health and life of the people involved in this risky activity should be carried out by competent structures. Statements in support of the proposed draft law made Vice-President of the Defence Commission Yanko Yankov, MPs Plamen Manushev, Tsvetomir Mihov, Hristo Gadzhev and Vladimir Toshev. After hearing the reasons, the opinions and discussions took place in which 15 MPs participated. By 15 votes for the defence committee adopted the following decision: Asks the National Assembly to adopt a bill implementing the Convention on Munitions and the Convention prohibiting the use, storage, production and transfer of landmines and their destruction submitted by Valentin Radev and a group of MPs on 8 July 2015. President of the Commission "Miho Mihov. "
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u94	Thank you, Mr. Manushev. The next opinion is from the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Mr. Atanasov, are you going to introduce him? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill implementing the Convention on cluster ammunition and the Convention on the Prohibition of the use, storage, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and their destruction, No 554-01-131, submitted by Valentin Ivanov Radev and a group of MPs On 8 July 2015, the Council adopted Decision At a regular meeting held on 29 July 2015, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Implementation of the Convention on Munitions and the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Storage, Production and Transfer of Mines and their Destruction, No 554-01-131, submitted by Valentin Ivanov Radev and a group of MPs on 8 July 2015. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Interior: Deputy Minister Krasimir Tsipov and Kristina Lazarova. The bill was presented by the importer Valentin Radev, who explained the reasons for his submission to the National Assembly. On 1 October 2011 for the Republic of Bulgaria entered into force the Convention on Cassette Munitions, which resulted in a number of commitments for our country with certain deadlines for the destruction of available stocks of cellular ammunition. The proposed Draft shall strictly regulate the activities of destruction, transport, import, export or transfer authorised by the Convention for destruction. The activities which are regulatoryly regulated are authorised under the two conventions. The control of the implementation of the utilization is strengthened by entrusting it to the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior. The Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the State Agency of National Security, the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision and the Executive Agency of the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. The submitted bill also aims at limiting the import and transport processes of weapons and ammunition for the purpose of utilization. Incriminating any activities with cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines without authorisation or in violation of an authorisation is also proposed. The representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs Deputy Minister Tsipov expressed his opinion to support the bill, as a detailed regulation of activities that are high-risk has been achieved. The Committee on Homeland Security and Public Order with 12 votes for the Council, without the approval of the Council of Ministers, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a bill implementing the Convention on Cassette Munitions and the Convention prohibiting the use, storage, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and their destruction No 554-01-131, submitted by Valentin Radev and a group of MPs on 8 July 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u96	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. There is also an opinion from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova, to present it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on a bill implementing the Convention on Munitions and the Convention prohibiting the use, storage, production and transfer of landmines and their destruction, No 554-01-131, submitted by Valentin Ivanov Radev and a group of MPs on 8 July 2015. At its meeting on 15 July 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Implementation of the Convention on Munitions and the Convention on the prohibition of the use, storage, production and transfer of landmines and their destruction, No 554-01-131, submitted by Valentin Ivanov Radev and a group of MPs on 8 July 2015. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Interior: Mr. Krasimir Tsipov Deputy Minister, Mrs. Kristina Lazarova Head of the Department of Regional Affairs. The bill was presented by Mr. Valentin Radev. The bill introduces a ban on carrying out cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines activities and regulates the destruction, transport, import, export and transfer for destruction. The destruction of stocks of cluster ammunition in accordance with the requirements of the Convention on cluster ammunition shall be envisaged by 2019. The control of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines activities is proposed to be carried out jointly by the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior, with the aim of suspending or limiting the processes of import and transport of weapons and ammunition for the sole purpose of their utilisation. Activities related to victims' assistance, information collection and administrative criminal activity shall be regulated. The Law proposes an addition to the Penal Code, incriminating the implementation of all activities with cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines. Members of the National Assembly Emil Dimitrov, Chavdar Georgiev, Yavor Notev and Valentin Radev took part in the discussion. In the course of the discussion, the MPs agreed that the proposed bill should be supported. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes for the Council, with no objection to the Council of Ministers and 2 votes abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill implementing the Convention on Munitions and the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Storage, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and for their destruction, No 554-01-131, submitted by Valentin Ivanov Radev and a group of MPs on 8 July 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Mr. Radev, are you presenting the bill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On 1 October 2011, our National Assembly ratified the Convention on Munitions, according to which a number of activities must be carried out within the most important part within a specified deadline until 2019, as has also become clear from the reports. In that time, with these eight years of time that we have been given, we are now in the middle of the period, we have to be, in one word literally, destroyed all stocks of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines. This Convention speaks, of course, only of cluster ammunition. They, for your information, are 900 tonnes, owned by the Ministry of Defence, mainly cluster ammunition, tapes and front parts of rockets. There are 500 tons imported by a private company to utilize the territory of the country, also your famous 190 thousand units, or about 76 thousand tons of anti-personnel mines. Again, for your information, you should know that Bulgaria has long dealt with the anti-personnel mines. They were destroyed, including those on the border. At the moment, what happened on 1 October 2014. By the way, a coincidence of the dates, one year ago in Gorni Lom, the incident, the explosion and the 15 dead, there remained those 190 thousand anti-personnel mines, which must also be destroyed. So this is the subject of the bill. This bill in its main part is actually dealing with control and that is its purpose. This is, so to speak, the triangular stone on what all the interests of the Ministry of Defense, the Ministry of Interior and other departments have been grouped around. The most important thing that we need to emphasise, which also sounded in the reports, that the state and those who created the Bill are basically the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because it is about conventions and international treaties, the Ministry of Interior also, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Defence, other ministries and agencies, that the controls must be increased, as it is about particularly dangerous ammunition......................................................................................................................... In the country there is a law on weapons, ammunition, explosives and pyrotechnic articles. There in Chapter 7, it is regulated that the responsibility for ammunition in general and their utilisation is granted to the Ministry of Interior. But since, once again, it is particularly dangerous ammunition that is involved, the first reason is that there is such a public opinion that the military is usually responsible, and the second good reason is that the specialists for these ammunition, both the types of ammunition and the anti-personnel mines and the cluster mines are located in the Ministry of Defence. There is such a common understanding and the working group I mentioned worked between these ministries. It decides to create a bill in which the Ministry of Defence is first given responsibility. It is written with a single instrument, as lawyers express, an interdepartmental commission of responsibility to be given in this order, which I list, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, follow the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Ministry of Environment and Waters and two agencies. Representatives in this interdepartmental committee are considered to be sufficiently representative and competent to reproduce this enhanced control in our view. This, by the way, is according to the example of art. 19 of the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles. There's an interagency commission there, too. Another important thing that is written in this Bill is the banning imperative activities that must be carried out and which should not be carried out with this type of ammunition. Next, it is permitted and it is recorded exactly how the activities of such types of ammunition will be carried out.. Cassette and anti-personnel mines, such as imports, export, transfer, transport and ultimately their destruction. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Final Provisions also offer amendments to the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, mainly in the part and texts relating to utilization and certain terminological issues. Along with this changes to the Penal Code of the Republic of Bulgaria, incriminating them, this was explicitly highlighted, I noticed, and in two of the reports, the activities that are not permitted by this Law. I am finishing the presentation in the hope that, as you followed, there were only five abstentions in the reports, all the others were for the draft. I hope, on behalf of the importers, that it will be supported at first and second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u100	Thank you, Mr. Radev. Dear Members of Parliament, you have the opportunity to make speeches on the bill. Mr. Iankov on behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! It makes sense when we look at a certain bill, to ask ourselves the question: is there a need for the area that it concerns to legal regulation? Let us definitely say that this area also needs an urgent need for clear and clear, competent, legal regulation to guarantee the security of the people who work in the relevant places for utilization and the Bulgarian citizens who live nearby because the incidents that have happened in Bulgaria have shown that in this area our legislation is not competent enough is not categorical enough, it does not allow for effective control. We definitely have to say that the ammunition -- the cluster, the anti-personnel mines that are about to be drained -- are thousands of tons. This is something that can really create very serious problems in Bulgaria. The next question we need to answer is: does the current bill offer the necessary legal equipment to solve these problems? My fellow Members, we in the Defence Committee have expressed our opinion, and now I would like to emphasise it to all of you. This is a good bill, which clearly, precisely and categorically regulates the conditions, arrangements and controls of utilisation, possession, transport and so on of cluster ammunition, of anti-personnel mines in accordance with the conventions. When we examined the Law in the Defence Committee, honourable Members, here was also highlighted in the opinions, we saw a definite misunderstanding by the Ministry of Defence who wanted to distance themselves from their commitments under this Law on those activities that were regulated in it. In fact, practice shows that the only specialists who have the opportunity to consult, to check, to exercise effective control are in the Ministry of Defense, only that when the incidents occurred and people died, the specialists of the Ministry of Defence went post-factum, that is, when only after the event had to be made relevant analyses and conclusions. I think it is doing an honor here to the importers of the Bill that clearly, precisely and categorically engaged the Ministry of Defence with certain control functions.............................................................................. I believe that this should be supported by all of us, because in this way, I say again, we guarantee the safety of the people who work there and the Bulgarian citizens who live nearby and prevent similar incidents which, as we have seen, have happened. In fact, this bill also solves the issue, honourable Members, with people who may suffer from accidents in utilization activities. We had a certain position of the Union of Military Disabilities and Military Victims in art. 31, which actually directs the rights of people affected by such accidents to the Law on Military Victims and Military Disabilities. There have been certain objections by the Union of Military Disabilities and Military Victims, but I believe that between first and second readings, together with importers based on the opinion of the Union, this problem can be cleared. My fellow Members, in order not to waste your time in vain, I would like to stress that the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support this bill because we believe that it is useful for the national security of the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u102	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, before I begin my speech, I would like to explain that in the Legal Committee, both I and my fellow Members in the other committees have supported this bill. To the question: should these ammunition, already prohibited by a convention, be destroyed, the answer cannot be any other than................................................................................................ The problem is what ammo we have. We've had mines, then the production has stopped and these mines every year, having been utilized and destroyed, had to decrease. However, they do not decrease.. we have imports. We've had cluster bombs that were airborne. They are not destroyed, they should remain in the same amount. Whether there's more or there's more, no one can say. I am worried about one single thing that I have also expressed in the Commission: are we our mines and cluster bombs going to destroy or create a business that we are transferring to the Ministry of Defense to destroy foreign people?! It's one thing to bring in samples of some military equipment to explore it, to be able to resist, to train it, to study it, another to import junk from all over the world to process in the factories here, because, you see, you have this technology. The case in Gorni Lom, Chelopere, of the Five-Four, of the Dunarits and Kostenets will we carry it out in Gabrovo? If it's a reasonable risk, let's destroy the mines, let's destroy the cluster charges. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 1, t. 2 is also given the word "importance." This means that we will bring outside others something that worries me personally. I want to destroy all of ours, but I don't want us to deal with destroying other people's lives and turning it into business. During the debate in the Commission, there were remarks, I repeat: we supported this bill, I will also support it in terms of who is to carry out this activity. It is essentially a technological activity that has always been carried out by the Ministry of Economy. The Military Industrial Complex, the production of arms, the licenses given by the ROS-arms, subsequently by the General Engineering Administration in Bulgaria. "The Military Industrial Complex is not part of the Ministry of Defence, it has always been to the Ministry of Economy. At the Ministry of Defence were the plants "Terem". The production of all these types of ammunition has never been towards defence, although the best specialists, of course, are there and those left at the moment. That was also the reason the Ministry of Defense, I suppose, is to insist on wanting to be burdened with this problem of dealing with utilization, with all subsequent risks such as such production, accidental explosion, victims and so on. In any case, it is assessed in the committees that this type of activity is to be given to the Ministry of Defence. I said my worries were not to import and not to deal with strangers. Secondly, once we adopt the Bill, let's not transfer it to a number of other companies that have relevant powers and licences to deal with this activity, and ultimately prove that we will not only destroy our mines and cluster bombs, but we will also deal with all others, and we will put at undue risk people who wish to earn their livelihoods to deal with this kind of business. I ask that the issue of imports of foreign ammunition be considered explicitly between the two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u104	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Any other speeches? Mr. Toshev of GERB Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I had no intention of speaking, but I must tell you two sentences after I have spoken in advance. First, since mid-April this year there has been a moratorium on banning imports into Bulgaria in any way of these mines. Secondly, the two conventions that we have ratified oblige us to destroy absolutely all ammunition of this type, which are on our territory. Third, I don't know if you understand the Ministry of Defense will not utilise, it will control utilization. We want this hot potato, unfortunately, to die people, to regulate the process, so that the best specialists can monitor the process and the pursuit of profit for the companies that are utilizing to be exhausted in such a way as to destroy ammunition and preserve people's lives. Nothing more than what's written in the Bill is going to happen. The word 'import', which has been referred to, is about the mines that have already been imported and are in our territory, and we have to take care of them. I'm asking you to accept this bill. It is extremely important to preserve the lives of the people who work in this area and, secondly, to fulfill our commitment to our partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u106	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. There's a statement by Mr. Bayraktarov. Will there be anyone else who wants to make a statement? I won't. Let's hear Mr. Bayraktarov's statement and then proceed to the vote on the bill. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see that very generous support is being given under this Law, which is covered under the auspices of the two conventions. I must tell you, honourable Members, that the two conventions have been ratified by more than 116 countries worldwide. In only two countries, there is a law under these conventions, and the law is created with one single objective in these two countries to stop the imports of ammunition from third countries. I will address my colleagues from GERB because we have just talked about corruption, and we remember very well what we have done and how we have fought. Mr. Radev, January 18, 2010! The place is the town of Stara Zagora in front of the district government. The first mass protest by the citizens, which ended with the throwing of ministers' eggs. The reason: the utilization of ammunition in the polygon "Zmeyovo" caused the city of Stara Zagora to be gassed, including with a fighting poisonous substance "phosgen", categorically demonstrated by the respective instances. What do you propose today, Mr. Radev, with this Law? First of all, you offer a purely lobbying route to regulate an extremely expensive business related to the destruction of ammunition from third countries. Dear colleagues, by the way, it is right to tell you that the Convention on anti-personnel mines has been ratified by Bulgaria 1999 and, fortunately, I think there are almost no such mines for destruction in Bulgaria anymore. There are very few cluster ammunition. I will recall what happened in 2008 after this case led to death. In 2008, a million and six hundred thousand mines were imported to Bulgaria from Greece. These mines led to death in Gorni Lom, led to death in the workshops of a company around the village of Lozenets, Yambolsko, i.e. the Law, which is now offered to us for adoption, carries behind it other than corruption, brings after it the opportunity to turn Bulgaria into the largest landfill for the destruction of ammunition from all over the world, brings death. And notice, in your Law it is proposed that the people who will be affected, who will be damaged, in violation of the Constitution, be turned into military invalids. There is a very nice position precisely of the military invalids under this Law. I suggest you read it! I call on all people who have been elected MPs from Stara Zagora to vote strongly against this law. I'll ask them what kind of eyes they'll face in the public of Stara Zagora. Eight years of fighting to stop the gassing in Stara Zagora, and today you want to give it back to us. However, Mr. Radev, at the time you were hiding in the center of Stara Zagora, you were hiding and there was no representative of power on 19 February 2010, when a 25-thousandth rally in the center of Stara Zagora faced this outrage. Do you want to bring back all these dark times today? The patriotic front will definitely not support this law. Absolutely! It's a law that carries death, which brings damage to ecology. It is a law that brings dealing and corruption, especially with the authorisation regime. I ask you: why do we need to import ammunition outside of what is written in the Convention from third countries in huge quantities to destroy them on our territory? I mean, why? Who needs it? To the companies you regulated in this Law? Is that really necessary? Is that why you are doing this Law, covered under the auspices of these two conventions? Don't force me to play you all the records made by responsible institutions on Sunday to hear what this is all about, including heads of relevant environmental protection institutes. Absolute report of the independent expert Assoc. Dobrinka Lolova proved in 2011 everything you want to wear in law today. Every word I say here today in front of you, every single word... You are offering us this Law today, provided that in February 2011 we have ratified the Convention. She's gorgeous. We are not opposed to this Convention, but this Convention says: "Dear gentlemen, Bulgaria has destroyed these dangerous ammunition. You have a term of eight years until 2019. "I ask: what does it require us to import from somewhere...? I'm asking because this is the crucial moment. Or do we have to legally provide the deal? No, it's not gonna work. Then let's pretend here that we're fighting corruption. Is that the point? This? Your ministers promised they would appear in Stara Zagora with a smile. Nobody showed up after that. Nobody! Nobody! But go now and tell the people that you'll give them the gas again, that there will be phosgene again, that there will be dangerous chemicals in the destruction of these ammunition. Therefore, we will not support this Law. [[Replying from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u108	Mr. Bayraktarov speaks on behalf of the Patriotic Front. Are there lines? Not a line, a personal explanation. Mr. Radev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am very surprised by what I heard from my colleague Bayraktarov. I've always listened to you with great attention, and I thought you were a great expert in some areas. I have to admit, from now on, I won't listen to you. [[Applause from GERB.]] How could you afford to say so much nonsense in such a short time, so many false things and so many lies? How could you mention Stara Zagora? I have a personal explanation, so I'm going to talk about Stara Zagora, not the import you're talking about. In the Law, let me also say this, no one is talking about imports, new imports. On the contrary, the Council of Ministers has since April 8, you should know it, a Moratorium for import of utilization ammunition from all over the European Union, old ammunition. It's only because of what you're talking about about imports. [[Applause from GERB.]] Mr. Bayraktarov, for Stara Zagora, I have not seen you in Stara Zagora. I've been there almost every month. We are the only government that says the following: Stara Zagora and its gassing, this issue will be resolved in a simple way by revealing the whole truth. And personally I've talked to all the companies to show their contracts, imagine, arms contracts, and enlightened us, not to say the names of the big companies, only asked me not to tell when the trucks came in and out of Stara Zagora. Can you imagine, and that's what we said because there are terrorists. And we lit everything up, we said everything, even in NATO they asked me, "Excuse me, wasn't that a military unit in Stara Zagora?" Why did you tell it all? And you're telling me that's where we've been hiding something. One more thing. In Stara Zagora of the polygon "Zmeevo" has never performed utilization except one single time. And no phosgene, and no professor at all, because her research has been disproved by an entire team of German scientists who came here. I'm saying this because it's a big scam you're talking about right now. The most important thing, ask the people who were against the Ministry of Defense and thought it gassed Stara Zagora. These people are called Kutsarov, I think it was his last name a journalist or a publicist, he came to our side. There's a very famous journalist from BNR, I think she was, if her name was Popova, ask her opinion. And she changed it. She was the hawk against us. I haven't seen you, I haven't heard from you there. How come you're talking about Stara Zagora with such an aplomb? I'm just stunned! I'm sorry I had to hear so many untruths. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u110	Are there any other statements on the bill? I won't. We'll move on to the vote. Please, at the second reading of the Bill, let the Commission discuss the issues raised. I'm not getting into this discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u111	What kind of discussions?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u112	I'm just paying attention to the fact that in art. 5 is really talking about import. So please, Mr. Radev, explain, because this is where you say imported, but the text requires working on it. And another question of a purely legal and technical nature under the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u113	There's no such procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u114	No, this is a recommendation for discussion in the committee responsible. Under the Law on Legislative Acts, you have all defined in the Additional provision, except for the basic definition of cluster ammunition, which is contained in art. 2. Let us discuss this matter with the Legal Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u115	We're in procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u116	The way you're holding Mr. Bayraktarov. [[Reply from the Chamber "Let's vote! "]] We'll vote, yes. Before the break. I said, we'll proceed to the vote. Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u117	Mr. Chairman, it is now. 11:37 p.m., that is to say, you have already broken the Rules of Procedure, because at 11.30 p.m., the Rules of Procedure are rested. [[Noise in the room.]] So, the vote will be held after the break. [[Laughter]] Because otherwise, you're breaking the rules. At the moment you want to vote in a time that is reserved for rest. At 11:30, a break is given. [[Reply from the hall "No such text. "]] How can there not be such a text?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u118	Mr. Bayraktarov, I'm not interrupting you because you talk in time, I'll tell you when you graduate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u119	In that case, I'd like a break.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u120	The break is usually given at 11.30, but it is not an obligation under the Rules, nor is it an automatic right, which follows from the time. I asked if there were speeches and since it is better to end the discussion, everyone who wanted to speak on the subject had the opportunity, so we will hold the vote and then announce the rest. Finally, I call on the Members of the National Assembly to distinguish the procedures of a reply and of a personal explanation. It seems to me that today, twice, we have witnessed cases where there was really a personal explanation, but along with this, a remark was made on the substance of the speaker's speech. So let's make it clear from now on that everyone is to take into account when to make a personal explanation and a line. I am quite accurate in this, so pay attention to the speakers whose objections they are to respond, not to cover themselves with a personal explanation. [[Noise in the room.]] We will vote and announce the vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u121	Is this the first time this has happened?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u122	Let's move on to the vote. They voted 109 MPs: 99, against 2, abstention 8. The bill was passed at first reading. Rest till 12:00, 10:00 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u123	Honourable Members, we will proceed with the meeting! We continue to look at: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR PRE-SCHOOL AND SCHOOL MOVEMENT. This is a continuation of the debate and the Law since yesterday. I recall that yesterday we started with a discussion on the title of the Bill. We have had several speeches and several proposals that are not supported by the Commission, as well as an editorial proposal by Mr. Yanaki Stoilov. Yesterday a statement was made by Mrs. Boyka Marinska. [[Reply from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova.]] Mrs. Bachvarova, you will be recorded. Mrs. Marinska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, the discussion yesterday began, and will probably continue, about the title of the Preschool and School Education Act. I'd like to bring some clarity to the words of enlightenment, enlightenment, education. The Enlightenment and Enlightenment have always been associated with a spiritual movement typical of the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 19th century, and the word "education" includes teaching and learning knowledge and specific skills, that is, a broader concept, which includes teaching, learning and acquiring knowledge and skills, something that is also important for the economic progress of the country. Exercising the title in unnecessary populism is an unnecessary waste of time and energy. Therefore, I ask all of you to reconsider your positions which you showed yesterday and expressed your views on this title and to support, as the Reformation Block will do, the title of the Bill "The Preschool and School Education Act." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u125	Thank you, dear Mrs. Marinska. - What's the line? I won't. For a statement the people representative Svetla Bachvarova. You have the floor, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u126	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I do not believe that the debate on the title of the Law is insignificant, given that with the title we define the perimeter and scope of what is proposed as reforms and a change in Bulgarian education. From this perspective whether it will be education, whether it will be enlightenment matters to the traditions we have in this system, and this system is not being created now. It is not a routine system in which we have children who are trained, children who are raised. From this point of view, I would like to offer you two more arguments in support of our proposal - pre-school and school education. The first argument is that when you talk about pre-school education you put it in the category of education. Since you are not issuing a document for completed education, this is therefore not a degree. The second argument I would also like to point out is that in art. 3 of the Law You are saying what education is and in this definition of school education you are saying that this is training, you are talking about that it is education, and also social association. All this represents enlightenment. You can see in the English Dictionary the meaning of the word "enlightenment," that is, you identify education with enlightenment as it is beneficial to you, or as you think it should be said in Brussels, European language, to sound more benevolent or to be very modern in accordance with the requirements of this new dialect, which started using words in the Bulgarian language, which mean absolutely nothing and behind them have absolutely no logical meaning. It's the word "enlightenment" that everyone will understand what it's all about. Therefore, the proposal that we have made continues to support it. My request is to rethink this Law with its name and to be adjusted in a direction where everyone understands what it is about, regardless of the reforms that are being proposed further, and these reforms hope to be in the direction of having a quality and accessible education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u127	- What's the line? I won't. Go ahead, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u128	Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose a procedure to end the debate on this point. We've heard enough arguments one way or the other, so I suggest we move on to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u129	A reverse opinion? I won't. Please vote on the proposed procedure by the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva. Vote 94 MPs: 88 against 6, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. And now we're going to vote. We begin first with the proposals of the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs and the MP Stanislav Stanilov, who are identical. The Commission does not support the proposals. Please vote. They voted 107 MPs: 14 against 39, abstention 54. The proposals have not been accepted. We are now moving on to the proposal of the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 114 MPs: 18, against 13, abstention 83. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the proposals of the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs and of the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs who are identical. The Commission does not support the proposals. They voted 114 MPs: 13 against 56, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the editorial proposal of the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov, which is the name to be the Preschool and School Education Act. Please vote. They voted 115 MPs: 17 against 65, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 98, against 12, abstention 4. [[Applause on the right.]] We have a adopted title... the name of the Law. Here's a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u130	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I voted against it because I think it is a mistake to replace the traditional term................................................................................................... Colleagues, throughout the Law, the term "education" is used in two directions. One is to refer to the organisation of the learning process, and the other is to obtain an educational census.......................what my colleagues have talked about before me. And the second meaning is not applicable at all in pre-school training. Here it should be clearly said that the term "enlightenment" is very meaningful. It has three meanings: not only education and the acquisition of competences, not only socialization and education of children, but also the cultural values and traditions of our nation. That third one's not nothing, is it? Then why did we bury this purely Bulgarian term in this Law? "Prosveta" brings 120-year state tradition and charge. The first law after the Liberation is called the Law on Bulgarian Enlightenment. What are you doing today with your refusal of enlightenment? You give up the Bulgarian self-consciousness and historical self-esteem? You're not integrating us into the world, you're depersonalizing us to it? In the end, I want to ask you something. Next year on May 24th, when you are among your constituencies, will you take a guilty look down into the ground when the song goes down? [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u131	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Is there another negative vote? Mr. Angelov has a procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u132	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I'm making the following suggestion. On the basis of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the deadline for proposals between the first and second reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-20 of 4 February 2015, adopted on the first reading of 9 July 2015 by the National Assembly, should be extended by another seven days.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u133	A reverse opinion? I won't. Please vote on the proposal made by the MP Julian Angelov. Vote 109 MPs: for 108, no objection, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u134	Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal (a) the words "the preschool and school education system' shall be replaced by the words "the education system'; (b) after the word "Study" the word "Study" shall be deleted and the words "Study" shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u135	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 117 MPs: 19 against 63, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u136	"Chapter 1" "General provisions". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One. "Division I" is the subject of the law. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u137	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the names of Chapter 1 and Section I, which are supported by the Commission. They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. The names of Chapter 1 and Section I have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u138	Under art. 1 has a proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 the following changes are made: (a) para. 1 is changed as follows: Art. 1. (1) This law governs public relations relating to the system of public education. (b) A new para shall be created. 2, and so far, al. 2 becomes para. 3: Education as a process of education, education and socialization is a national priority and guaranteed by the state law. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the Commission Art. 1. (1) This law governs public relations relating to the system of public education. Article 1, para. 2 is deleted (its systematic place is in art. 2a.). A new para is being created. 2 to art. 1: Education as a process of education, education and socialization is a national priority and guaranteed by the state law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u139	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u140	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 I have tried to show how the laws should be written, because this chastisement, which is contained in many places in the Bill, is not a good attestation. I leave the question of the solutions that are being proposed, but in many cases they fail to be formulated in the most economical, most precise manner that requires legislative technique. It is enough to say what is the common subject of the bill, as well as para. 2 then indicates distinctions between general and vocational education. What is new in this case and I propose, together with my colleagues, is that we first define education as a process of education, education and socialization. It is a national priority and law guaranteed by the State. This triunity of education must be highlighted because in recent decades we have been seeing ever more deepening processes of social disintegration. Since the army is no longer this socializing element, as it was in the 19th and 20th centuries, perhaps the school remains the only institution that, at least for a certain period, covers all adolescents and cannot fail to carry this role, of course, stressing, first of all, the importance, the place of the school and its role in education, in education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u141	Enlightenment!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u142	Of course, I will answer you, Mr. Ivanov, especially to this question, to you, the few dozen people who voted not even abstention, but to the inclusion of the word enlightened in the title. I'll give him some time after that. Secondly, the school should be a place for education. We can say: the younger the children, the more they need education from kindergarten, from primary education. The higher school can now be believed that this process is largely completed, that it is influenced by much more public factors. The emphasis there is almost entirely placed on the process of acquiring knowledge, on creative thinking abilities and on the application of this knowledge. And the educational function of the Bulgarian school in these decades was greatly humiliated, because this is inevitably happening in every historical transition, values are changing, the interpretation of historical facts and education has almost always been a means of solving other tasks. This is to some extent inevitable, but it should not harm the achievement of any self-respect, respect for others, a sense of community life, except in isolation or for the formation of only virtual community ideas. This highlights exactly the proposal that has been made. You also point out somewhere further that education is a national priority. Here I will allow myself a little exit from the official vocabulary for a joke: asked Radio Yerevan when will be better Bulgaria, and the answer was "You were already well." [[Arrival in GERB.]] This applies to education as a national priority. About 6% of gross domestic product went to Bulgaria for education until 1990. At the moment, many of the most developed European countries are seeking this percentage to be around 5. We had him falling over the years and now he's under 4%! What priority are we talking about if this is not really defined through the policy that is bet every year on budgets? So these declarations are nice, I accept them, but they matter if later in this and other laws they find some object expression. Of course, in the end, we say that this is a priority guaranteed by the state law, and the Constitution mentions it. With regard to enlightenment, because there were tosses here: what to wait for from people who shared or at least supported a person who held the position of President who launched the idea of replacing the Cyrillic with Latina?! This may show the voice and echo of such discussions today in the National Assembly. I do not expect support from the proposal, but I am explaining the reasons why it will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u143	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. Please vote on the proposal made by MP Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 18, against 59, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to vote on the proposal made by the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is also not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 109 MPs: 14 against 63 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the text of the importer for art. 1 which is supported by the Commission. Vote 105 MPs: 92 against 2, abstention 11. The text of the importer for art. 1 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u144	Under art. 2 A proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The proposal is withdrawn under para. 1. The Commission generally supports the proposal under para. 3. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal, which is: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2, para. 3 and para. 4 are amended as follows: The participants in the training, education and education process are the students, teachers, directors and other pedagogical specialists, as well as the parents (the guardians). (4) The institutions in the system of pre-school education and pre-school education are kindergartens, schools, centers for supporting children with special educational needs, centers for creativity and development of abilities and specialized service units. There is a proposal from the MP Mariana Todorova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2: Art. 2. (1) The pre-school and school education system shall include participants in the educational process and institutions, as well as relations and relations between them to achieve the objectives of education. (2) The participants in the educational process shall be children, students, teachers, directors and other pedagogical specialists, as well as parents. (3) The institutions in the preschool and school education system shall be kindergartens, schools, personal development support centres and specialized service units. (4) The participants in the educational process and the institutions shall partner with the municipalities and other stakeholders. (5) The system under para. 1 shall also include training carried out by organizations of Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria, registered under the legislation of the country concerned for carrying out educational and cultural activities, as well as by other organisations and institutions referred to in Chapter 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u145	Statements? Here you are.. People's representative Mariana Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u146	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You've heard our proposal. It is not supported by the Commission, but I would like to draw attention to two important points from it, because in the end the decisions are taken by the MPs in this House. I believe that they should also reflect the existing practice at the moment in the Bulgarian education system. Our first proposal is in art. 2, para. 3 to the participants in the process of training, education and education, which are shown in the text are the children, students, teachers, directors and other pedagogical specialists, as well as the parents to be added to the guardians. For a long time, we have been talking, too, about the problems of children whose parents have gone to work abroad, they are left to be watched by grandparents, their relatives and grandparents. Often there are serious difficulties in their training and upbringing. The law should, in our view, reflect this existing practice and oblige parents to provide guardianship. In this sense, our proposal is to record guardians as participants in the process of education. Our second proposal is related to the institutions in the system of Bulgarian education. We cannot accept the proposal made by importers regarding future centers for personal development. We agree with the thesis that the personal development of each child should be supported, but this should be, in our view, the primary responsibility of the school and the extracurricular units to assist and build on this development. That is why we believe that the concept of support for personal development is not precise enough. It will mislead citizens, reduce the status of the Bulgarian school and contradict the concept that the child should be at the center of development. Our second concern is that the proposed centers for personal development include simultaneously working with talented children to develop their abilities and at the same time working with children with special educational needs, also development in the field of sport and other activities. Moreover, they are transferred as commitments to the Bulgarian municipalities. There are some worrying issues here, which, apart from these texts of the Law, will probably be discussed in the next ones, where these centres will be specifically discussed. I will now, at the beginning of the discussion of the Law, place them: an orderly system, according to us, so far through the extracurricular centers, children's complexes, sports schools, observatories, can be brought into chaos. Secondly, the transfer of this responsibility to municipalities, which often have problems with full funding, could also create problems. And another thing, the result of this restructuring would it not lead to the closure of dozens of, for example, municipal children's complexes? And who will be responsible, for example, in a year's time, if we find ourselves in such a situation? Finally, we believe that the support for the personal development of the talented child and the conditions for supporting a child with special educational needs are quite different. They also require a different material base, a different personnel resource, a different methodology, so our proposal, which we have made here, is related to the creation of two types of centers, one to support creativity and development of abilities, and the other, apart from them, to support the development and support of children with special educational needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. Do you have any lines, fellow Members? No. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. First, I am putting the proposal of the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly - the Commission does not support it. Please vote. They voted 114 MPs: 16 against 65, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer edited by the Commission art. 2. Please vote. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Cancel the vote. Where was the editorial proposal? [[Heckling]] We have a report from the Commission. We vote on the Commission's editorial proposal for the text of the importer under art. 2. Please vote on the Commission text. They voted 114 MPs: 98 against 11, abstention 5. The text of art. 2 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u148	Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The proposal is withdrawn under para. 1. The Commission generally supports the proposal under para. 2 which is reflected in its systematic place in art. 4. "Department II" "Principles in the system of preschool and school education." A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal, which is: Section II and Section III exchange seats. The name of Section II is changed like this:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u149	Let's stop here because there's an unsupported text. We begin with the proposal of the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov, which is very good. Section II - The proposal for another name has been withdrawn. Read in fact the unsupported proposal of the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u150	Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs: Section II and Section III shall exchange seats. The name of Section II shall be amended as follows: "Department II " Aims of the People's Education System. " The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u151	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 13, against 69, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of Section II, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 93, none, abstention 13. The name of Section II by importer supported by the Commission has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u152	Article 3? a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3 the following amendments and additions are made: .) (c).................................................................. 4 after the word "ethnological" the words "and religious" shall be added; b) creates a new t. 5 with the following content: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 5 the formation of the spiritual and cultural identity of the learners through the adoption and absorption of spiritual, moral and cultural traditions and their based values; (c) the remaining points shall be renumbered. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Stanislav Stanilov, which is identical with that of Iskren Veselinov. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from MP Miho Mihov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 3: Art. 3. (1) Education as a process shall include training, education and socialization. (2) Education shall be a national priority and shall be implemented in accordance with the following principles: 1. a single state education policy to ensure the right to pre-school and school education; 2. orientation to the interest and motivation of the child and the student, to the age and social changes in his life, and to his ability to apply the acquired competences in practice; 3. equal access to quality education and inclusion of each child and of each student; 4. equality and non-discrimination in pre-school and school education; 5. preservation and development of the Bulgarian educational tradition; 6. humanism and tolerance; 7. preservation of cultural diversity and inclusion through the Bulgarian language; 8. innovation and efficiency in pedagogical practices and in the organisation of the educational process, based on scientific justification and forecasting of the results of innovation; 9. transparency of the management and predictability of the development of pre-school and school education; 10. autonomy for conducting educational policies, self-government and decentralisation; 11. engagement of the state, municipalities and non-profit legal entities, employers, parents and other stakeholders and dialogue between them on education issues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u153	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u154	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think this is where the Commission has managed to generalize the principles of education. She has taken the proposal that I and some of the other colleagues have made to a significant extent. Just two notes to make to this text. Secondly, following the principle of uniform state education policy, this is referred to as orientation to the interests and motivation of the child. We have no claim that education should also be directed in the light of this requirement, but it had to stay far behind in the enumeration because there are more important principles, such as equal access to quality education and inclusion of each child, equality and non-discrimination and so on. But it's written anyway, and I don't want to complicate the discussion and the vote by rearranging these principles. The other least discussional issue is contained in point 10th, where it is said: an authorial for conducting educational policies. The first point speaks of a single state education policy and point 10a talks about educational policies. I do not know how many educational policies the Bulgarian state intends to conduct. And if it will not conduct and give them, rudely speaking, a ransom, each person to do as he thinks, then it is actually written at the beginning of point 10a that largely intersects the meaning of the declaration contained in point one. Therefore, I think it is better to drop these words and at point 10th to talk only about self-government and decentralisation. It is also possible that this is even appropriate that the educational policy itself is not applied mechanically. It gives opportunities for diversity in its implementation, for variation in the curriculum, but this is something other than declared autonomy, because autonomy to conduct educational policy leads to the idea that these educational institutions will be cut off at some point from the central subordination and leadership of the Ministry of Education of other authorities, other institutions or other rules. Such ambiguity, in my view, does not contribute, firstly, to the clarity of the Law, secondly, to what may follow in the years of its application. My suggestion is that this part of the expression at point 10th be dropped on the already stated motives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u155	You're making such an offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u156	Yeah, I do.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u157	- What's the line? I won't. Statements? I won't either. I put to the vote the proposals of the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, as well as the MP Stanislav Stanilov, who are identical and not supported by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 9 against 40, abstention 62. The proposals have not been accepted. I am now voting on the proposal made by the parliamentary tribune by the MP Yanaki Stoilov in point. 10 of the draft version proposed by the Commission to drop the expression "Authonomy for the conduct of educational policies" and to remain only "self-government and decentralisation." Please vote on the proposal made by the MP Yanaki Stoilov. They voted 116 MPs: 18, against 66, abstentioned 32. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer edited by the Commission art. 3. We are voting on the Commission's text for art. 3. Vote 107 MPs: 92 against 8, abstention 7. Article 3 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u158	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 4. Art. 4. The state conducts educational policy towards Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria and provides conditions for their full integration into the Bulgarian education system.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u159	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for art. Four on her report. Vote art. 4 on the Commission report. 110 MPs voted: 108, none, abstention 2. Article 4 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u160	"Department III " Aims of pre-school and school education. " A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs has been made. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u161	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Section III, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 108 MPs: for 107, none against, abstention 1. The name of the importer for Section III of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u162	Under art. 5 has a proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The Commission shall support the proposal referred to in point (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal referred to in point (b) (i). The Commission does not support the proposals referred to in points (b) and (c). The proposal referred to in point (d) is made. I will read the proposal which is not supported by the Commission: (c) A new point 7: shall be created. .. 7. Overcoming historical preconceptions and stereotypes of negative attitude towards ethnic, religious and cultural differences in modern society (d) c. 7 is amended as follows: Forging national and civil self-consciousness and building tolerance and respect by providing knowledge of the ethnic, national, cultural, linguistic and religious identity of Bulgarian citizens. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal referred to in points 1, 2, 5, 6 and 7. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the The Commission does not support the proposal referred to in point 4: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 4. At the end of the t. 8 (new) the words "ethnic, national, cultural, linguistic and religious identity of each citizen" shall be replaced by "the identity of each citizen." Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Milen Mihov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 5. Art. 5. (1) The main objectives of pre-school and school education shall be: 1. intellectually, emotionally, socially, spiritually and morally and physically development and support of each child and of each student in accordance with his age, needs, abilities and interests; 2. preservation and validation of the Bulgarian national identity; 3. acquiring competences necessary for successful personal and professional realization and active civil life in modern communities; 4. acquisition of competences for the implementation of the principles of sustainable development; 5. early detection of the talents and abilities of each child and student and promoting their development and realization; 6. formation of sustainable attitudes and motivation for lifelong learning; 7. acquiring competences for understanding and implementing the principles of democracy and the rule of law, human rights and freedoms, active and responsible civic participation; 8. the formation of tolerance and respect for the ethnic, national, cultural, linguistic and religious identity of each citizen; 9. forming tolerance and respect for the rights of children, students and people with disabilities; 10. knowledge of national, European and world cultural values and traditions; 11. acquiring competences for understanding global processes, trends and their interconnections; 12. acquisition of competences for understanding and applying the principles, rules, responsibilities and rights arising from membership of the European Union. (2) The State shall conduct policies to improve the quality of education and prevent early school dropout.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u163	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Hassan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u164	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In connection with the examination of art. 5 of this Bill we have had proposals that the President of the Commission has read. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms believes that over the years there have been established preconceptions and stereotypes of negative attitude towards ethnic, religious and cultural differences in society. Our proposal is about overcoming them. We continue to insist that in a law that claims to be a modern law that regulates important public relations that affect all Bulgarian citizens, it is right to have such a text, even more so, that even in the new Operational Programme, Science and education for smart growth. The focus here is also on the requalification of pedagogical staff especially in working with children for whom the Bulgarian language is not maternal. We continue to argue that such a problem exists in Bulgarian society and it must find its place adequately in the Preschool and School Education Act. On the second proposal, our motives were that really the formation of national and civil self-consciousness and building tolerance and respect can be done by providing knowledge. This, of course, also responds to the Strategy for Educational Integration of Children and Students from Ethnic Minorities 2015 - 2020. This also responds to European education policies, which are entirely in the spirit of interculturality. Those were the reasons for our proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u165	Thank you, dear Mr. Hassan. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by Parliamentary Representative Lutvi Mestan and a group of Members of the National Assembly in its unsupported part of the Commission, namely "in" and "g." They voted 105 MPs: for 7, against 73, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u166	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take advantage of my right to a negative vote in the part where there was talk of historically accumulated prejudices, which must be overcome in the system of Bulgarian education. Firstly, in recent years, the education system has progressed quite largely in this direction. There is no self-respecting Bulgarian teacher who shows such prejudice towards ethnic and religious minorities. The textbooks that have been created in recent years very well reflect the realities of the country and the historical truth, of course. If we aim with one such text to replace the truth and what has happened in the past and to dress it in the form of dealing with prejudices that have accumulated over time, then I believe that our approach is neither European nor modern. At least he's nationally responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u167	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. The text wasn't accepted anyway. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs in his unsupported part, namely that. 4 as presented by the rapporteur in the parliamentary tribune. Please vote on the unsupported part of the Commission on a proposal from a Member of the National Assembly! They voted 105 MPs: 10, against 19, abstention 76. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer edited by the Commission art. 5. Please vote! They voted 104 MPs: 86, none, abstention 18. Article 5 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u168	Article 6 "Promotion by the People's Representative Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the People's Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Article 6 is deleted; The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u169	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote! They voted 104 MPs: 18, against 60, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 6 reflected in the Commission report. Please vote! They voted 105 MPs: 86, against 5, abstention 14. Article 6 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u170	"Department IV " Law of Education ". A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal, and it is: The name of Section IV is changed this way: The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section IV.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u171	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote! They voted 109 MPs: 22, against 61, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of Section IV, reflected on the relevant site in the Commission Report. Vote 110 MPs: 92 against 1, abstention 17. The name of Section IV of the Commission Report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u172	Article 7? a proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u173	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 7 which is supported by the Commission. Vote 104 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 2. Article 7 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u174	Article 8? a proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal referred to in points 1 and 2. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal under para. 1. The Commission generally supports the proposal under para. 3. The proposal under para. 1 which is not supported by the Commission is the following: 8, para. 1 words..5 years of age...4 years of age................................................................................................... A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal under para. 2. The Commission generally supports the proposal under para. 3. The proposal under para. 2 is: Art. 8, para. 2 is changed as follows: Al. 2. School training is mandatory until the age of 18 and starts from the school year, which is at the beginning of the year of the age of 7 of the child. Proposal of the National Representative Irena Kotseva, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 8. Art. 8. (1) Pre-school education shall be compulsory from the school year beginning in the year of the age of 5 years of the child, and the parents shall choose one of the forms under art. 67 and the state and municipalities undertake to provide conditions for the coverage of children in kindergartens and pre-school education groups. (2) School education shall be compulsory until the age of 16 and shall begin from the school year beginning in the year of the age of 7 of the child. (3) School education may also begin from the school year with the beginning of the year of the age of 6 years of age of the child at the discretion of the parent and when ready for school, certified under conditions and by order laid down in the state educational standard for preschool education. (4) The beginning of school education may be postponed by one school year, where the health status of the child does not permit entry into the first class established in a procedure laid down in the state educational standard for pre-school education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u175	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u176	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to draw your attention to our proposal to amend art. 8, para. 5 which affects compulsory age for children attending pre-school education. The idea of a 4-year mandatory pre-school training is not new. It doesn't make sense here in front of the esteemed audience to go back to the story of this idea. I do not need to argue for long the reasons of this idea. Various political groups, including our opponents from this House, point out the need for early pre-school education of all Bulgarian children, regardless of their origin. I think that this is a manifestation of the tolerance and concern of the Patriotic Front towards all Bulgarian children and most importantly a rebuttal of all those accusations that have been pouring over the past eight months towards us. The requirement of this form of training reduced to Four-year-olds are in no way limiting the rights of choice, the rights of children or the rights of parents. This is a declarative guarantee by the state to ensure the right of children to access preschool education, the right of children to quality education and, after all, the realization of the sacred right to happiness of the youngest children. That is why I appeal to you to have an open and serious debate on this proposal, because the earlier the children are joined and socialised through the preschool education system, the more they have a better chance of social realization, of acquiring basic habits, of learning the literary, literary, excuse the repeating, but I would like to stress it, the Bulgarian language that is at the heart of modern culture in our country. This is the real step of concern and responsibility of the state and of us as lawmakers to young children, this is one of the decisive steps to do something real in the socialization and integration of all Bulgarian citizens, regardless of their mother tongue, regardless of the differences in culture and family tradition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u177	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? I won't either. We close the discussion and move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs in his part unsupported by the Commission, namely para. 1. [[Noise and lines.]] We are voting on a proposal from a Member of the Parliament in the part not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: for 6, against 19, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. Please vote on the proposal by the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs in its unsupported part, namely para. 2. They voted 89 MPs: 20, against 51, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the edited text of the importer for art. 8 on the Commission report. They voted 99 MPs: 84, against 2, abstention 13. Article 8 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u178	Under art. 9 has a proposal from the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 9 is created a new para. 3: The State creates conditions for the realization of the right to education and implementation through the school of certain social functions. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal under para. 1 and 3. The Commission generally supports the proposal under para. 2. "9" para. 1 is changed as follows: The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 (2). 9 (1) The compulsory pre-school education and education and school education in state and municipal kindergartens and schools is free of charge for children and students. A new para is being created. 3 in art. 9. Art. 9 (3) The state creates conditions for the realization of the right to education and through the award of the school of social functions defined by the state educational requirements. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 9. Art. 9. (1) The compulsory pre-school and school education in state and municipal kindergartens and schools shall be free of charge for children and students. (2) School education in state and municipal schools shall be free of charge after compulsory school age for: 1. Bulgarian citizens; 2. nationals of another Member State; 3. third-country nationals: (a) authorised permanent residence in the country; (b) entitled to long-term or long-term residence in the country, as well as for members of their families; (c) adopted by acts of the Council of Ministers; (d) adopted under an international contract in which this matter is settled; (e) for which this is provided for in a special law; (f) Seeking or receiving international protection in the country. (3) Minor and minor foreigners seeking or receiving international protection under the Law on Asylum and Refugees shall be provided with free education and training in the state and municipal kindergartens and schools in the Republic of Bulgaria under the conditions and by the order of the Bulgarian citizens. (4) The right to free education shall be exercised by not paying fees for the training provided by the State budget and shall enjoy the material basis for training and development of the interests and abilities of children and students free of charge. No fees shall be paid for attending state age examinations and state exams for obtaining professional qualification in the theory and practice of the profession in order to acquire secondary education. (5) Outside the cases under para. 2 third-country nationals who have reached their compulsory school age are trained in state and municipal schools for payment of fees of an amount determined by a tariff approved by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u179	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u180	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the spirit of objectivity, I note that the Commission has accepted our proposal not to pay exam fees in state and municipal schools, but I pay attention to the other unsupported proposal that I and my colleagues have made, namely, the state creates conditions for the realization of the right to education by carrying out certain social functions in the school. I believe that rejecting this proposal by the Committee on Education is an expression of social irresponsibility. Words are not strong, and I will illustrate them. You know that as a result of our efforts at the school, certain social programs for breakfast for children with warm milk, fruits, so that they can first receive at least part of the care for their upbringing in school and be healthy. These activities must find their legal basis and be not only preserved but very actively developed. In times when many children live in poverty, the school can become the strongest social factor not only through the knowledge they receive, but also by facilitating the opportunities for their cultivation. If they can eat breakfast at school and even have lunch somewhere, that is, twice a day to eat, think about how many of those families who are otherwise wanted, are looking for, are convinced to send their children to school, will do so without seeing that these children can get part of the care there. Because besides school transport to take them or pick them up from school, these activities must be carried out. I'll give you one more example. It should be stimulated in the school the introduction of students' suits once so that children can dress up when parents are having difficulties, and a second time to turn the school not into a field for the development of the activities of some religious or other burdens, because there are places in the country where certain families are already being paid to use certain symbols for children and others to walk in front of their faces. Is that what you want the school to do, not have this social role, everyone inside to do what they want? Because this problem is already coming, knocking on the door from many developed European countries. And we, if we sleep through this work, then we'll fight her consequences again. So to use precisely these social functions of the school and the ability of the state to assist, to use European programmes. Where mayors have a greater commitment, they can also get involved in this process, but they can see that this is a state policy that is being supported, which is being stimulated and in which the country itself participates, which brings together parents and other institutions that need to be concerned about it. So I do not see any argument for such a proposal not to be supported. If the plenary is held on the proposal of the Committee on Education and Science, it means that this qualification, which it gave at the beginning, will have to be transferred to the very majority of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u181	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 92 MPs: 15 against 51, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote. You didn't get a vote? [[BSP LB.]] That's not gonna happen. If he hasn't been able to vote, then...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u182	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like a re-voting because we did not first hear any arguments against Mr. Stoilov's statement and somehow it seems to me that most of the colleagues in the Chamber did not understand what this was about.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u183	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. It's a re-vote. Vote 98 MPs: 15 against 59 abstentions 24. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs in the unsupported part, namely in para. 1, as para. 3 is identical to the proposal of the MP Yanaki Stoilov and was rejected. We vote al. 1 of the unsupported proposal of the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. They voted 89 MPs: 14 against 57 abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 9 on the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 101 MPs: for 85, no objection, abstention 16. Article 9 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u184	Under art. 10 has a proposal from the MP Mariana Todorova. The Commission does not support the proposal: in Chapter One, Section IV, art. Ten out. A proposal from MP Stanislav Stanilov. The Commission does not support the proposal: Article 10 is repealed. Proposal from MP Boyka Marinska and group. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 to create a new para. 4 with the following text: The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal art. Ten down. Proposal by the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov and a group of Members of the National Assembly. 10 changes like this: Art. 10 (1) The state finances education only in state and municipal kindergartens and schools of education. (2) For the education of the students under art. 9, para. 2 in private kindergartens and schools the state provides free aids for children in kindergartens and free textbooks for students up to eighth grade. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The proposal by the MP Boyka Marinska, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10: Art. 10. (1) For the implementation of the compulsory pre-school and school education of children and students, as well as for the school education of the students under art. 9, para. 2, private kindergartens and private schools may receive a state subsidy under the terms and conditions of this law. (2) The inclusion of private kindergartens and private schools in the state funding system shall be carried out on their application, as determined by the state educational standard for the financing of institutions. (3) When private kindergartens and private schools receive a state subsidy, they may carry out activities for payment only outside those financed by the State. (4) Private kindergartens and private schools, which are included in the state funding system, shall ensure that 20 per cent of their children and students, including children and students with prominent gifts and/or with special educational needs, are trained without payment of the activities under para. 3. (5) The conditions for admission of children and students by the order of para. 4 shall be determined by the state educational standard for the funding of the institutions and the specific requirements and order of admission by the rules of the institution concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u185	Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Although we have clearly declared from the ABB that we support the philosophy and spirit of the Law, this is the only member we have a disagreement about. We do not support the state to finance private schools by granting the funds that are provided for each student for private schools. I dare say that this is rather a principled and not ideological issue, as some of our opponents are trying to change, and I will motivate myself why this is so. Importers derive from the presumption that the right to education is, anyway, a constitutional right and must apply to all children, including those attending private schools. The state grants the right to free education for children who attend public public public schools, and choosing a private school is volitional and the opportunity of parents is not something that the state should finance. As the state finances public transport, but does not finance everyone to buy a personal car.. I apologize for the rough comparison, so we must also adopt this principle. Experts from the Ministry of Education and Science claim that this will not have serious expressions in the budget, because it will cost only 11 million, as a small part of schools and students will benefit. But I would object, because when there is a dropout of students from public schools, it will immediately affect the quality of education in them. Teachers will leave, which will destabilize the system; the material base will deteriorate, as it will reduce the revenue for repairs and administrative expenses. How can we look at it differently? By granting these funds, we are actually financing the private initiative, as are private schools. Here I will refer to a quote: The test of our progress is not whether we add more to the wealth of those who have many, but it is in whether we provide enough for those who have too little. It wasn't someone left-handed, it was US President Roosevelt. That is, when we finance private schools and private initiative through these funds, we need to re-evaluate what sign we are giving to society, because there are too many that have too little. The system of public schools has a lot of problems, it suffers from underfinancing and the sign we give to society is that, nevertheless, we support private schools. I therefore insist that this article be dismissed, and I believe that perhaps such a measure will be more appropriate in the future, so that we still respect the interpretation of constitutional law. I will allow myself very briefly to speculate with my colleagues from the Reformation Block, who offer an average option against the state to allocate funds to private schools to offer quotas. However, we have to think: is this right-wing policy when we put quotas? The state dictates to the private initiative what to do, does not sound very right to me and not very appropriate. This is a kind of violent regulation that is still not inherent in right-wing policy. For me, quotas are violent, not stimulating equality. How exactly do we choose these 20% children, by what criteria? Wouldn't that create a conflict in the system? I think we should be very careful here, delicate and rethink our position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u187	Thank you, dear Mrs. Todorova. - What's the line? I won't. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u188	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose that we extend working hours to voting in art. 10. I suggest you put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u189	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Tsveta Karayancheva. Vote 92 MPs: 72 against 14, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. We continue with the speech of the MP Yanaki Stoilov. After him were signed by the national representative Emil Raynov, the national representative Boyka Marinska and the national representative Milen Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u190	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This is one of the most important texts in the Law. I'm even starting to think if it's one of the most important motives for the adoption of the entire Law, because by shaking it out of many other texts that have universal significance and do not affect education policy, here we actually see the political and social dimensions of the preschool and school education bill. If it is about whether to finance private educational institutions by the state and we are looking for the practice, we can find all possible answers. Let's not spread any further, just look at the map of Europe. There are countries, including in the European Union, which finance, under certain conditions, partly education and private schools. There are others who don't. Hence, we cannot bring forward any undisputed argument about something that needs to be settled in a way that does not tolerate objections. This is therefore a discussion about the Bulgarian Parliament and the Bulgarian conditions. The answer should come from Bulgaria, not by hanging on to one or another examples, because, again, I am telling you, each of the countries that advocate different opinions can find in support of their opinions. I'll tell you just one pό common argument. In the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe a year or two ago there was a special discussion on this issue and there in a resolution adopted the majority, and a large majority, which was not very sharply divided between the parliamentary groups, voted on a recommendation that the state should finance education where it is responsible, namely where it is formed, supported by the state, local and regional authorities. I'm saying this without exaggerating the importance of that fact. And we ask ourselves: when social inequalities increase in Bulgaria, not only poverty, because poverty has different manifestations, will we help with something if out of 100 units of funding that continue to be insufficient, subtract 20 and distribute them somewhere else? What is the purpose of this exercise?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u191	That's a lie.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u192	First think on the map of Bulgaria in how many of the district cities there are private schools? That's the only account you can make. The further down you go, the smaller municipalities and settlements, there are no private educational institutions, because there is no environment in which they exist. Therefore, this Law for whom do you do it for those who have, anyway, to receive something from the state, with the very misleading argument, do you see, we are all equal?! So how are you equal when the situation itself is uneven? In this way, you need to make children who have the ambition to study in a private school, relying on public funding - their families do not stand where they live and rely on a decent education, but even more to concentrate all people, educational, labor and hence factors to the capital and several major cities! This is also about principles, and I don't see anything disturbing here, because ideas usually reflect on principles. Do we follow the principle that the state, since it has an obligation to create a certain educational structure, must fully ensure its good existence, or will it simply hand out its money to everyone because it has signed up? And I ask: There is nothing wrong with any of us or anyone else who has the opportunity to enroll their child in a private school, but why should the state pay him for this choice and for this pleasure, when he has enough money to support it and have the freedom of choice? That's enough to do. And if you deviate in any way from this beginning, it means that you are actually working against the majority of Bulgarian citizens. We ourselves have foreseen the state to provide the textbooks in private kindergartens, schools to have about the same educational content to show this empathy, but this is the maximum to which Bulgaria can afford to go at this time. From then on, this thing becomes a regression of education and a deeply antisocial measure. We will therefore vote against. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u193	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Emil Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am surprised that this so important issue passes so apathically in this House. There's a lot of arguments. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov said the arguments of the more general, but I will give only one wonderful example, which we have been facing for the sixth consecutive year. [[Radio.]] I can see that my colleagues at the Health Committee are already smiling because they know what I'm going to say. That's how it starts, dear colleagues, and the health issue. There were no private hospitals back then. Let's give the private hospitals some money to take from the health care funds. At the moment, you know what a great flood is, a great number of hospitals. Currently, the Health Commission on a proposal from the reformist minister, on a proposal from colleagues from GERB, is proposing restrictive measures, including the Minister of Health with a regulation to determine which hospitals to receive government money and which hospitals to not receive, so, honourable Members, think about what you are betting on for the future. Nothing bad will flourish, private schools, but whole regions will be without access to education. This innocent at first glance step, even though I've been reading the data on how only 12,000 are in private schools or am I wrong? [[Noise and lines.]] I'm wrong!? How are they gonna get the money, but this money...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u195	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u196	But this money, do not oppose me, but this money comes from, anyway, a limited resource for education, which, evidently by the long-term financial forecast, will not increase. You are thus really condemning a chamber of municipal schools to closure, to genocide. You are smiling, but subsequent governments, if accepted, will deal with this particular problem and how to stop it. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u197	Thank you, dear Mr. Raynov. - What's the line? There are no lines. To speak, the public representative Boyka Marinska.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u198	Honourable Members, the discussion on providing state funding to private education is being conducted at different rates, with different strength and with different intensity for years. During the course of this conversation two main, radically opposed these. On the one hand, it is a thesis in favour of financing private education, because education up to 16 years is both a right and an obligation, and this creates a commitment for the State to provide and guarantee this right for each child, regardless of the institution in which it has chosen to carry it out. The full implementation of the principle "Money follows the student" implies the support for training to go with him even when he is studying in a private school or in a private kindergarten. On the other hand, it is the other thesis rejecting the financing of private education. According to supporters of this understanding, the state provides access to education by building, maintaining and supporting the system of state and municipal kindergartens and schools, and the system of private education is parallel and alternative to each system. Budgets, public funds must go to public institutions and every child must be able to choose one in order to fulfil his right to free training. According to them, state and municipal gardens and schools will lose their competitive advantage if private ones also receive public funds. The draft Law on preschool and school education, which we consider today, steps as a philosophy on the first thesis. This is a modern understanding of the realization of the right to education. Around what have we united in the Committee on Education and Science? Private kindergartens and private schools will be entitled to a state subsidy if they wish to join the state funding system. They will receive funding under the standard of support for a child or student and for the activities covered by this standard. Activities against payment for children's gardens and schools will only be able to carry out outside of those financed by the state. These fees for additional activities will be released 20 percent of the children and students, and for them the training will be free of charge. These can be children with prominent gifts, children with excellent success, children with special educational needs. The state standard for funding institutions will generally define the conditions for the admission of these children, but the schools themselves in their regulations will sign in detail the criteria and procedures for admission. Around this text we united in the Committee on Education and Science and our arguments were the following: first, participation in the public funding system is voluntary, private kindergartens and schools have no obligation to include themselves, and second, obtaining a state subsidy, however, goes with greater public responsibility. The proposed text tries to find a balance between public interest and private initiative. When discussing the introduction of state funding for private schools, one of the main criticisms that were heard was that there were no guarantees that private kindergartens and schools would reduce training fees and the state subsidy would be used to generate profits. Representatives of these institutions then protested a similar suggestion, arguing that the reduction of fees was completely realistic. Today, however, voices are being heard claiming that the release of a fifth or 20% of the children from paying additional activities is impossible without causing their fees to be charged to other children, i.e. the reduction of fees to everyone is possible, and a partial exemption from fees for a fifth of the children is unthinkable. Those arguments don't sound serious to me. Moreover, there are private schools that apply such criteria for a long time, which provide free training to some of their best students through scholarship programs. I want to take advantage of my right to put forward an amendment to art. 10, para. 4 which sounds like this: The private kindergartens and private schools, which are included in the state funding system, provide the possibility that 20 per cent of the enrolled children and students, including children and students with prominent gifts and/or special educational needs, may be trained without payment of the activities under para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u199	Instead of the host, do you propose that they be the recorded ones?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u200	That's right. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 10, para. 5 to be amended as follows: The reception of children and students by the order of para. 4 shall be carried out at the beginning of each school year for kindergartens and at the beginning of each educational degree for schools under the terms and conditions laid down in the Rules of the institution concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u201	You're going to present me in writing with the proposal you're making? Thank you. A line? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u202	Mr. Chairman, I listened to Mrs. Marinska, comparing both these and the arguments. One I didn't even understand what schools and their construction were, because there are enough schools in Bulgaria, but, unfortunately, a lot of them are closing down and we have no problem with schools and we have a problem with students. The other, as I was listening to you, I wondered: Are you speaking as a representative of your constituents from Pazardzhik, in this case, and I have the honor of being a representative from this area, or some lobbying groups of private schools? After all, we need to assess whether we contribute anything to the better of the people who vote. I assume that some of them share your views, but how many private schools are there to care about what happens, who writes what, and how they are blamed, we have to justify them here?! Each of the stakeholders has the right to maintain the position they want, and we are the ones who need to see who the prevailing interest is, and if there are any people we need to protect, whether they need our protection. I think the people you're protecting don't need that kind of protection, because they still get a lot higher salaries than the other teachers, because the families who send their kids there don't have these problems either, so we have to worry about the others. Seeing how things are going in recent years, our institution will become more and more redundant, as it will be some kind of decor in the distribution of wealth and at some point people will start asking again whether there is a need for what is called democracy. Democracy means that it works to some extent for the mass interests and enables these people to manifest themselves under certain conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u203	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Kenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Mrs Marinska, you know my position and that I am a firm supporter of what was adopted at first reading or the first three paragraphs of the Law, but that is not what I want to comment on. With regard to what the Commission adopted between first and second readings, which was also your proposal, namely on para. Four and five, I strongly disagree with the 20% that you have strangely introduced. To this day, no one has explained to me exactly why it's 20%. No one explains how this difference will come because the practical calculation shows that any other child, outside the released, will have to pay at the current prices about 250 BGN. more. Mr. Glauchev, I am making a procedural proposal that the texts be voted separately. We will support paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, but we will be firm against paragraphs 4 and 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u205	Thank you, dear Mr. Kenov. Third line? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u206	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Since the Law is introduced by MPs, it shines with any financial justification. We're hypothetically supporting what? We support public service education with our taxes. The state is committed to accessible, quality education of all Bulgarian children, and those who are in private schools are not prohibited from offering this service on a commercial basis, but the choice of each parent is to pay for this service. How do we allocate the limited budget that the state allocates 3.7% of gross domestic product? How do we, with a declining budget in the coming years, also finance private schools that are unequal to what is the choice of parents themselves? I want to ask you one more question. Have you bothered to see if this is State aid because you are distributing some tax-collected budget funds to companies that form profits? Such a finding, such expertise does not exist at all and does not exist in your speeches, and there should be. A number of experts say it takes about 200 million additionally to be provided to private schools. Where are you gonna get them? You're probably gonna answer me. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You need other than the maintenance of schools and a very serious control system for what you provide them and how you account for them. Otherwise this will be really illegal state aid and tell me what this is about? How do you take away from the limited funds of education and give to those who can afford and choose to pay their own private education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u207	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. Mrs. Marinska, will you take advantage of your right to the back of your coat? Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u208	Mrs. Bachvarova, I've heard from you a figure that I'm going to ask you to confirm it to me - 200 million additionally in order to make such funding for private schools. Is that right? [[Reply from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova.]] That's right. And I'll tell you, whoever did this calculation to you obviously didn't go to math class at all. The state budget provides funding for every single child in this country. Whether he'll go to private school, whether he'll go to public school, the money will follow the student. Please sit down, make a new estimate and you will see for yourself, I suppose, you will also convince your colleagues that additional funds for such funding are not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u209	Thank you, dear Mrs. Marinska. For a statement, the people's representative Milen Mihov. You have the floor, Assoc. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u210	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Our proposal, which we tabled between the first and second votes, is identical to that of our colleagues from the ABB. 10. During the debate and the public debate, which took place in practice in the Bulgarian society and in the Bulgarian media, a new proposal of the Commission is formulated, on which I must say that there is a different attitude in our group. Speaking here, I will only express my personal opinion. I am personally opposed to the thesis that money follows the student, because for this there are no legal and constitutional serious arguments. Secondly, this principle showed a lot of defects in its application in the system of means of education. Today we see crowded schools and schools suffering from lack of students. Next, the money that the student should follow is not the individual means of the family, of the parents, even less of the children. They are a public resource accumulated by all legal and natural persons who are allocated through the state budget. We are supporters of private property and private initiative. We believe that it is sacred and inviolable, as well as the freedom of private initiative from any state intervention, control and regulation. Next, I would end up with several numbers: what this would mean for the state budget, as someone mentioned that there are no financial estimates. It is not difficult to calculate that, according to statistics and with the current state spending standard, it would cost aid or support to private schools between 15 and 19 million if all schools decided to benefit from it. This is not such a big financial problem for the education system, but I would like to open one more question. The application of this principle in secondary education makes no sense not to apply it to higher education. If in secondary education the share of private schools is 1-1.1%, in higher schools it reaches 19% of the trained Bachelors. If we calculate it, that roughly means about 32 million. lv. assistance to private universities. That is why our group will vote on conscience. I will refrain from accepting this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u211	Thank you, dear Assoc. Mihov. There's a word for it, Mrs. Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u212	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! With all the desire and opportunity you've made to piss me off, you didn't succeed because I've heard so many untruths from this tribune, so many worthless things and a lack of any reading of arguments I've never seen before. I know the wording of art. 10 Of the Law is one of the stumbling blocks with which I have been fighting since the forty-first National Assembly. So many arguments have been expressed both in the public domain and in the stands, and at first reading, and in the Commission, that I think that when I said to think outside the box from this tribune at first reading, you understood something. It turned out to be nothing. Secondly, when spoken from this tribune, professionals should speak. We at GERB are used to listening to professionals, people who understand secondary education, who will not talk about initial, medium and general education, but will talk about education, who will talk about education for who? For Bulgarian children, Dr. Raynov, because this concerns the children of Bulgaria. I was more radical in my thinking because I thought they all deserved it, and I had reservations when I supported that 20%. I supported them not because I believe and have changed my belief that education is not a social service, but because I think that we should tolerate children in greater inability and the children of Bulgaria's enormous talents, to choose their access, to study wherever they want. If we have to be honest, we have to say that this Law by this measure is even more social than what you think, because they will also teach children who have not yet had the opportunity. Private schools participate in the real process of the economy of Bulgaria. They are part of the structure of secondary education, which under the Constitution, if you have not forgotten art. 56, must be mandatory and accessible. Mr. Mirchev, don't speculate, we're not in the middle of an election, you're not in a general meeting to defend a candidate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u213	Do not engage in dialogue with the House! Colleagues, don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u214	In this sense, as great speculation has been made, I have 50 arguments. I won't read them because I've said them many times. I'll just say that this measure was in effect from 1909 to 1948. Imagine when it was rejected. I have no comment. I will just say that the money that will be for these Bulgarian children is of the order from 11 to 13 million a year. I will say that this money will be read in the so-called "standard" and they are agreed according to procedure with the Ministry of Finance and are secured. I will also say that from 2630 schools in Bulgaria in the system of secondary education, in the system of secondary schools, and not schoolá, teach so many children. Of these only 162 are private schools and only 54 are private kindergartens. Well, if there's no private kindergarten in Northern Bulgaria, why not? And why shouldn't children who have less social status learn?! Or is your policy demagogic and false?! Or are you manipulating everything as you would like?! No, it's not gonna work! You tried to sabotage the adoption of this Law. Since 1991, this is the third time our undisputed attempt to succeed. Secondary education needs to be changed. Bulgaria needs this. Our children need this. It will be! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u215	Thank you, Mrs. Dukova. Here's your first line, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u216	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Ms. Dukova, with respect to your professional interest in education, but since we, as a people's representation, are looking at perhaps one of the most important laws for the future of Bulgaria, surely with this Law we are debating a lot of time in society and in the Commission. For the education and education system, we need to recognise a few truths - 3.61% is the financial resources from the public budget for education. In the three-year forecast, this percentage decreased. If we have to regulate the public resource for quality education, for this service with public and municipal schools to be at the level of the responsibility of voters that they have sent us here, do you think that from this public resource we should remove and send to private schools?! I'm saying this not by accident, but because I know what it's like in the whole country to have a modern education. If the state is rich, if there is a large public resource in it, if we are over 4 to 5%, let's give. I'll give you two examples from my constituency. In Devin, the village of Selcha, and in Nedelino, the village of Sredets, where when the money runs out, because by standard there are not so many students, teachers prefer not to take a salary or take the minimum wage because the money is not enough. As we drain from the public resources, then let's finance the municipalities. If we have to be fair, we have to put this on the table first and then, I don't mind if we're a rich country, the second. Answer me: how do you feel with this public resource compared to the entire educational system in Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u217	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Second line, please, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u218	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Dukova, honourable Members, Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman! Ms. Dukova, what concerns me in your speech and in your support of this article is the paragraph in question. 4 where 20% free admission is determined for children, including children with prominent gifts and children with special educational needs. Including, I mean, these kids don't have to be like this. I ask the question: will some of the colleagues who will support this article today, their children will not turn out to be exactly 20%? There is something else I would like to tell you: during the lack of funding of the system there are currently over 400 schools in Bulgaria, according to the data of the Ministry with under 200 students. They suffer from a large dose of underfinancing. That 13 million. The leva you're talking about will be taken from them. [[GERB lines.]] And one more thing! Today, private schools will ask for 13 million of the budget, but tomorrow, when they see state funding, these schools will become even more and the underfunded schools outside the major cities, in smaller municipalities and villages will completely run out of money and will be closed down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u219	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. Third line. "The People's Representative Tasco Ermenkov."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u220	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Mrs. Dukova, you correctly mentioned 1909 and 1948. You neglected only to say what was the percentage of the uneducated in Bulgaria until 1948 and what has become the percentage of educated people since 1948, when you have exhausted what you are currently fighting for. I want to remind you of something else. Granted, the Bible says that those who do not have will have it, and those who have it will have it. This does not mean, however, Mrs. Dukova, that it will be taken from those who do not have enough money for public education to be given to private schools. This is about faith, Mrs. Dukova! To faith! I am convinced that all of your constituents will give you a proper assessment of what you are doing in the field of education and the additional dividing line that you are doing between the poor and the rich and the segregation of children who will be able to teach children who will not be able to learn.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u221	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Mrs. Dukova, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not going into the stylistics of the last replicator, because before that, I said, "Let the professionals talk." On the occasion of the funds I will say, because this is the dangerous subject around which we slip and move, I think you forget who controls you. Do you realize how much money goes into the budget like surpluses? You're worried that we won't be able to give 13 million. lv. for Bulgarian children. Did you read the law well? Did you understand that we don't take that money from the energy industry? The gentleman there who asks me, we don't take it from the brick industry, we don't take it from the glasswork. This money is simply not distributed and these Bulgarian children deserve it. Don't throw me, Mr. Mirchev, into politics of political debate and politics of unspoken thought. We give, but we don't take. We'll give these kids. As far as 20% is concerned, I have one agreement with you and I suggest that you stay with the children enrolled. Let the text be this one. Mr. Mirchev is right in this regard not to be of them. I will support you in this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u223	Thank you, Mrs. Dukova. Mr. Bayraktarov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For 40 minutes we've been listening to the same arguments, repeating themselves, nothing new so far. There are indeed various and interesting reasonings. However, given that nothing new is being heard to grab the thought of the Members of the National Assembly, I propose the debates under art. 10 of the Law to end and proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u225	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u226	Dear colleagues, Mr. Bajraktarov, I am making the opposite proposal because this is the most fundamental law for the state, because of what we are doing here today will depend on what the state will look like in a few years. This particular member is the first big bomb to blow up the education system. To come up with this proposal from the Patriotic Front to defend one percent, and to stand up against the other 99, I think it's just funny. I'm making a reverse offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u227	Count how many people you are in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u228	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. I put to the vote the proposal to end the debates made by the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov. They voted 123 MPs: 90 against 32, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We're putting an end to this debate. Let's move on to the vote. First, we vote on the proposal of the MP Mariana Todorova, which is not supported by the Commission. The proposal of the MP Stanislav Stanilov and the MP Milen Mihov is identical. We are voting on three identical proposals which are not supported by the Commission. They voted 130 MPs: 41, against 62, abstention 27. The proposals have not been accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote! Vote 128 MPs: 5 against 79, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the next proposal not supported by the Commission, namely the proposal of the MP Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs. Please vote! They voted 126 MPs: 35 against 69, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. Before going to the vote on the text proposed by the Commission, there was a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Stefan Kenov for a separate vote. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the MP Stefan Kenov for a separate vote on art. 10 by sub-paragraphs. [[Heckling]] Separately means the subparagraph by subparagraph. Isn't that what you suggested, Mr. Kenov? First, second and third paragraphs together, and fourth and fifth paragraphs separately. That's actually the proposal. They voted 130 MPs: 81, against 13, abstention 36. The motion is accepted. We're moving on to a separate vote. Vote art. 10 paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of the Commission report. They voted 129 MPs: for 89, against 33, abstention 7. Alinei 1, 2 and 3 of art. 10 have been adopted, according to the Commission report. Negative vote. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I voted against these texts because I think they will introduce a discriminatory model against the property of Bulgarian citizens, which is explicitly written in art. 6 of the Constitution. In accordance with art. 4, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria the same, namely the Republic of Bulgaria, guarantees life, dignity, rights of personality and creates conditions for free development of human beings. I ask: isn't education part of the free development of man and the improvement of personality? In accordance with art. 53, para. 3 of the Constitution........ and secondary education in the state and municipal schools is free............................................................................................ Will this constitutional principle be respected, this norm, this requirement, once we take away from the non-resident, from state, municipal schools, and give to private schools? No. It won't stick. The question that has been commented in this House will also not be respected about the right to choose. In practice, the poorer ones, those who do not have, in the remote parts outside the center, outside Sofia, outside of Varna, Burgas, the big cities, will still not have a major resource. These families won't have the money to send their children to private schools. They're eating 11 million, which is not enough for public and municipal schools. That is why I also voted against. How are we going to protect the right to education when there are no staff in education in secondary and higher education? There are no candidates for teachers. There are no candidates for teachers because this profession will not be attractive and is not attractive at the moment, as salaries and labour are too low secured. On the contrary, it is taken by these teachers, by their salaries, by their demands and given to private ones. Naturally, future teachers will go to private schools. That's where they'll be teaching. There's nothing left for the government. We are talking about the right to education of every Bulgarian citizen, which you have just violated by voting on this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u230	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Second negative vote on the vote on Borislav Borisov. Here you are, Professor Borisov! There will be a third from the National Representative Mariana Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u231	My fellow Members, I respect the opinion of everyone and of all those who are advocated, because there is truth in each one of them. Because I am an economist, I will give my consideration why I voted against it, from a purely economic point of view, and not financially. We're talking about a market economy. The colleague Snezana Dukova reminded me with her statement that she was fighting from the 40th National Assembly. I'm fighting the 39th National Assembly. At that time private universities were created and the struggle was for them to receive state funding. There's a precedent in place today. The next stage is to move towards state funding of private higher education. What does it mean and why am I against it? Our Constitution will even leave her out of it. The market economy has one fundamental principle. It is also recorded in our Constitution "Equal equality of all forms of property." Equality means that they have the same rights to function on the market. The fact that there's a market for educational services, there's nothing to argue about. In this market of educational services there are two types of subjects. One is funded by the state and the other is financed privately. When one of his subjects is given the advantage of being given, besides private funding, to receive state funding, the level of ownership is already impaired. You don't have a market. If we want equality to return and the subjects to work on equal terms, then the state should allow them to receive fees, i.e. to have paid training. That's the principle. And we broke it today. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u232	Thank you, dear Professor. Borisov. Third negative vote "The National Representative Mariana Boyadzhieva."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u233	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against it because today you have adopted a decision which is extremely controversial in Bulgarian society. Next, you have adopted a norm for which there is no assessment of the impact of any expert institution This decision, which was adopted today, violates the principle of public funds collected from the taxes of Bulgarian citizens to be used for the work of public institutions only. With this decision you have made today, you will increase the inequalities in Bulgarian education between children and students who will have uneven access to a good material base; teachers who will receive different remuneration; schools under strict control and are unable to collect fees, and private schools who will also benefit from the fees collected in them. You will increase the inequality between the Bulgarian municipalities on territorial grounds because, as has been stated, private schools are in the big cities, and the concern of all of us should be for the preservation of schools in all the settlements where there are Bulgarian children. Today, with this decision, as has already been stated, it was a leaping art. 53 in the Bulgarian Constitution and a sign of equality between state, municipal and private schools was put in place. You have allowed this decision to finance commercial companies with registration. Once again, expressing the clear and clear position of the Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria against this decision, I would like to say that our decision is to leave the Chamber. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB. Banging at banks. Partial applause. Revelations: "Eeeeeee! "]] Continue to vote on what you have planned in your proposals in the Education Act. [[The National Representatives of BSP left Bulgaria leaving the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-03.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. There was a proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska for al. 4. art. 10. [[Relation from the National Representative Boyka Marinska.]] You withdraw and leave the original version that's accepted? [[Noise and lines. A line from the National Representative Boyka Marinska.]] We're talking about para right now. 4. I'm putting it to the vote. 4 on the Commission's report after the proposal of the National Representative Boyka Marinska has been withdrawn. We vote al. 4 of art. 10 on the Commission report. They voted 104 MPs: 86, against 15, abstention 3. Paragraph 4 of Article 4. Ten has been accepted. We're going to vote on para. 5, where we also have an editorial proposal from the National Representative Boyka Marinska. Do you support him, Mrs. Marinska? Yeah. Then we move on to the vote on the editorial proposal for para. 5 of art. 10, proposed by MP Boyka Marinska. Vote 104 MPs: 88, Against 14, abstention 2. Mrs. Boyka Marinska's proposal for para. Five is accepted. Now we vote the entire article. 10 on the Commission report, together with Mrs Boyka Marinska's adopted editorial proposal. They voted 109 MPs: for 89, against 12, abstention 8. Article 10 has been accepted. Parliamentary control reports followed on 4 September 2015 at 11:00: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev will answer one question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova will answer six questions from MPs Kiril Dobrev and Georgi Kadiev, Krasimir Bogdanov, Krasimir Yankov [[two questions]] , Svetoslav Belemezov, and Christian Vigenin. 3. Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva will answer one question from the MP Svetlin Tanchev. 4. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer four questions from the MPs Georgi Kadiev, Atanas Stoyanov, Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov, and Georgi Tarnowaliski. 5. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer three questions from the MPs Ivan Valkov, Dora Yankova and Stoyan Mirchev, Petar Hristov Petrov. 6. The Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer seven questions from the MPs Kiril Dobrev and Radoslav Stoychev, Georgi Kadiev, Krasimir Yankov, Philip Popov, Krasimira Kovachka, Cornelia Ninova and Georgi Gokov, and Emil Raynov and Georgi Gokov and one question from the MP Georgi Kadiev. 7. The Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov will answer a question from the MP Stanislav Stanilov. 8. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva will answer six questions from the MPs Lyubomir Vladimirov, Petar Slavov, Nevin Hassan, Cornelia Ninova, Velizar Enchev, and Stefan Kenov and one question from the National Representative Dora Yankova. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question from the National Representative Stefan Kenov, and two questions with written answer from the MPs Svetoslav Belemezov, and Willi Lilkov; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to two questions with written answer from the MPs Svetoslav Belemezov, and Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva to a question written by the National Representative Borislav Veliev. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the responses to: - two questions from the National Representative Maya Manolova to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov, and to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov; - a request from the National Representative Slavi Binev to the Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov. Due to a preliminary commitment to the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski, the Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva and the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova will not participate. Due to a preliminary official commitment with international participation in the parliamentary control meeting, Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov will not participate. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will not participate. Questions.. 29, questions. 3. Total number of questions and questions Necessary parliamentary time "4.51 hours. Tomorrow we continue at 9:00 with the second vote of the Preschool and School Education Bill. Today we reached art. 10. I'm adjourned today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
