ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] On the day yesterday, we started looking at: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW PROJECT FOR THE STATE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA FOR 2016 The reports of the Standing Committees were presented. Under the Rules of Procedure, we are about to hear from the importer. On behalf of Mr. Goranov, Minister of Finance. Before that, however, there is a procedure, Mr. Goranov. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Kiril Ananiev "Deputy Minister of Finance," Mr. Krasimir Tzipov "Deputy Minister of Interior," Mr. Zhecho Stankov "Deputy Minister of Energy," Lyuben Petrov "Deputy Minister of Economy," Mrs. Zornitsa Rusinova "Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy," Mr. Krasimir Zhivkov "Deputy Minister of Environment and Water," Mr. Boil Banov "Deputy Minister of Culture," and Mrs. Georgi Kostov "Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Food."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u3	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 165 MPs: 160 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Mr. Merdjanov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Always next year's budget policy is the most important policy the National Assembly is discussing. It is important for the Bulgarian citizens both the government to present its intentions and the opposition to state its points of view. Therefore, I propose a direct transmission to the plenary during the discussions on the 2016 Budget on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u5	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Merdjanov's proposal for direct broadcast on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio of the Debates on the Budget Bill 2016. They voted 161 MPs: 58, Against 19, abstention 84. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u6	Thank you, Madam President. I want a re-voting procedure. It is strange that the representatives of the ruling majority refuse to broadcast directly the debates on the 2016 Budget. It is strange because yesterday the budgets for state social security and the National Health Insurance Fund were adopted without any statement from the government. Don't you have any arguments to defend budgetary policy, or do you just want it to go this way, by the way?! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I'm doing a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u7	Revoting, coworkers. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Please refrain from speech from place. Vote 166 MPs: 62, against 54, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. I don't see anyone else who wants to do the procedure. Minister Goranov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members! Stability, realisticity, results These are the words that summarize the philosophy of Budget 2016. A year ago, most of the political parties represented in the 43rd National Assembly made the difficult but responsible and wise choice to create and support this government. Thus, after months of political instability, in a difficult economic situation and crisis in the banking sector, we took the responsibility to work towards the return of normality to the country's economic and social life with the belief that a shared effort of all actors in public, economic and political life is needed to overcome the challenges and achieve stability. By sharing views and mutual understanding as well as checking the clock with whether the actions taken are in the right direction, this philosophy continues to guide us now. Economic growth is at the heart of the prosperity of each country, such as the level, development, accumulation, intensity of use and return of its tangible, natural and financial assets, and human capital determines the ability to generate income and create wealth. According to National Statistics, in the third quarter of 2015, gross domestic product increased by 2.9 per cent compared to the same period last year at a GDP level in the European Union of 1.9%. The largest share of GDP growth occupies final consumption and it is it that has the greatest role to play in growth. The Bulgarian National Bank reported an increase of 1.6 percent at the end of the third quarter of the loans on an annual basis of the sector. Unfortunately, the pace of consumption growth is still unsatisfactory. They are not so much about economic development as they are about the processes that take place in society. It is the stability of the environment and the sense of security that affect the behaviour of all economic entities and their decision to invest, because the satisfaction and calmness of the economy are among the foundations of growth. Without the necessary reforms, we cannot reach the growth rates of countries that decide in a much more rational and pragmatic way their structural imbalances. Let us not forget that a year ago the financial system was very stressed and then you and I worked on the update of the 2014 budget, which answered the question concerning the provision of the resources needed for the Deposit Guarantee Fund in the banks for the repayment of guaranteed deposits at the Corporate Commercial Bank. Thus, the legal deadlines for the payment of all guaranteed deposits were respected and it has been seen in practice that the deposit guarantee system and the Bulgarian banking sector are working and there should be no worries whether they are in line with European standards. With the legislative changes made this year and with the election of a new management of the Central Bank, the state has arranged its supervisory functions so that it has immunity from attempts at misguided actions in the management of people's money. The lessons are read by everyone and our financial system is stable and the existence of a sustainable and strong financial sector is a mandatory condition for a functioning and efficient economy. At the end of last year, we ensured that the government would be a correct payer to all those to whom there are obligations. We continued the inherited good practice of accelerated recovery of value added tax and non-retainable levels of non-refundable tax credit. We also paid off late payments under operational programmes in accordance with the rules. By the end of this year the 2007-2013 programming period is finally over. The necessary resource for the successful finalisation of the projects under it is one of the reasons why the update of the 2015 budget is inevitable. It is a fact that the update also takes into account challenges related to the inability to reduce staff costs sharply in certain sectors, including those arising as a result of staff optimization, unforeseen compensation costs and reduction of ineffective costs in the public service sectors. In this regard, it is proposed to spend an additional resource for 2015, amounting to 387,8 million, designed to solve the problems and prevent the occurrence of overdue liabilities. As a result, the deficit under the consolidated fiscal programme on a cash-based basis for 2015 is expected to reach 3.3 per cent of GDP, but the deficit on a charged basis will be below 3% of gross domestic product, which does not violate the Maastricht criteria regarding the level of the budget deficit. I am in a hurry to make the clarification that the deficit forecasts are as conservative as possible and this projected level will most likely not be reached. You know, I've been alerted since spring that the pace at which these changes are being made is unsatisfactory. However, we made a commitment not to leave the employees in the systems without salaries for the months of November and December because for one reason or another the reforms could not have taken place. A step forward is the realization that there must be changes in order to improve working conditions in these systems and the quality of their work. When the balance of taking and giving is broken, distortions and disproportions accumulate in the systems. Everywhere in nature there is balance and every deviation triggers a series of mechanisms for its recovery. The 2016 budget is in line with reality. It is a function of what we create and provides sufficient opportunities for the state to perform its social protection functions for those Bulgarian citizens who cannot handle themselves, without the aid of the state, for investment in human capital, for defence and security, where we have international commitments. This is the budget, which takes into account all the realities and needs that the state will have next year, and most importantly, it guarantees stability against the background of the problems in our surroundings related not only to economic but also to global security. The realistic forecast for the main macroeconomic indicators is the basis on which fiscal policy is built next year. Our expectations are GDP growth in 2016 to reach 2.1 per cent, as its main engine will be domestic demand. Both private consumption and investment and the public sector will increase their contribution to the growth of the economy. The gradual recovery of domestic demand 2016 is expected to support labour demand and the rate of increase in employment will be slightly accelerated to 0.4%. This will help further decline in unemployment rates to 9.1 percent, which is almost at pre-crisis levels. Deflation is beginning to decline, which is also a relatively good signal. For 2016, average annual inflation is expected to be 0.5 percent. The main priority of the fiscal policy carried out in the medium term remains the ambition to maintain the stability of public finances. The revised deficit target of the consolidated fiscal programme for 2016 amounts to 2% of gross domestic product at 2,5%, as set out in the mid-term budget forecast of spring of this year. The planned deficit for 2017 and 2018 is at 1.4% of GDP and 1% respectively. The planned reduction of the deficit of 3,3% in the revised assessment of the 2015 programme to 2% in 2016 is due to efforts on both the part of the revenue and the part of the budget. The revenue from the consolidated fiscal programme for 2016 is expected to be 37.4 per cent of GDP and the expenditure is planned by 2% more Tax insurance policy will also be oriented towards supporting economic growth, improving the business environment, as well as limiting tax fraud, and increasing fiscal sustainability in the medium term. The insurance policy provides that the amounts and ratios of the social security contributions of the public funds and of the Health Insurance Fund for 2016 should be maintained. This year we showed that when the state is in place, it can collect revenue and this is seen from the results achieved. We have taken real action and implemented working measures to combat smuggling and the grey economy and the result is eloquent. As of November 17, In 2015 we have raised 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. more than the same period last year, and this amount does not include revenue from the European funds. In order to understand why the revenue collection in 2015 is so good, an answer should also be given to the question why it was so bad in the previous year. By the way, it is naive to attempt to cross out life facts in terms of collection. The State budget for 2016 aims to maintain fiscal stability and reduce the difference between revenue and expenditure, which opened up after the mishap in 2014. To reduce the size of the budget deficit. This effort is not an objective. It meets the need for the budget deficit to be financed through public debt. The sooner we can bring the revenue and expenditure part of the budget closer together, the less concern and accusations that public debt is growing disproportionately. Remember how much energy was put into demagogy and guerrilla that shifted the real debate when, at the beginning of the year, we submitted for ratification the contracts for dealership and agency in the four banks and the global medium-term debt programme. Our political opponents used their entire arsenal to promote and plant fear in society with apocalyptic paintings and scenarios. The reasonable arguments and arguments for the choice of this approach, with which we guaranteed the Bulgarian state is ready at any time when it was necessary and when it is best on the market, to take debt to repay and meet its obligations, was answered by cheap populism. However, the market has shown that it has confidence in Bulgaria, and not only this, we have received the high recognition of the most impressive borrower from Central and Eastern Europe.In the annual ranking of Global Capital, the occasion for which was the successful realization under the best possible market conditions of the triple tranche of new benchmark bonds of 3.1 billion. Euros. I will remind you that they were issued in March this year. Interest coupons were at the lowest interest rates achieved so far by Bulgaria on international capital markets. During the transaction that we made precisely within the framework of the global medium-term programme, our country managed to attract an extremely diverse and very well differentiated base from investors. The Constitutional Court also found no grounds in the claims that what we did as a programme for predictable and sustainable financing of the Bulgarian budget for the next few years is contrary to the basic law. It is always easy when talking about the budget to comment with the pathos spending part, but when we talk about the source of this resource, everyone condemns debt as vice. Therefore, let each of you who has expressed reservations about the scale in the spending area remember that we must be very sensitive to the costs we are making and to their effectiveness, because in the last few years we have increased the debt burden of future generations. Let us also not forget the relationship between deficit and debt, because an open and small economy such as ours should not be placed depending on external creditors. It is high time to realize that low debt is not a goal but a guarantee of the sovereignty of the Bulgarian state. I will present to your attention two key priorities of Budget 2016 without underestimating the importance of others who will also be protected during the discussion. I have repeatedly stated that the Bulgarian budgets should invest in two main areas of human capital, through the system of education and infrastructure, with the maximum balance between the two. I believe that the budget balance for next year has been found and at the end there will be tangible results. Improving the quality of education will be achieved by improving the school environment and paying teachers and staff, which in turn will improve the relationship between the education system and the labour market. The interaction between institutions in the benefit of secondary and higher education must be deepened not only with a view to improving quality but also with a clear understanding that whatever investments we make in social infrastructure, if there is no quality human capital to manage them, we fail as a society. Without opposing these, whether the Genesis determines the consciousness and the consciousness, I would like to stress that turning to the best education is also important, not only access and detention in class. I am convinced that all schools that offer the best quality product must be stimulated. Investments in infrastructure, regional development and public works, as well as the development of the country's transport infrastructure, are among the key priorities of the government and in Budget 2016. The implementation of these policies implies a leading place of investment in infrastructure, with the funding being carried out by both national funds and with the support of operational programmes and the implementation of measures aimed at economic and social and territorial cohesion. I would also like to draw attention to other important investment mechanisms that we have created within this year, and will unfold their potential in the next. Bulgaria joined through the Bulgarian Development Bank with 100 million. EUR in the European Fund for Strategic Investments, the so-called Plan "Yunker" in order to create an opportunity to overcome the resource need for investment in viable projects with the potential to generate high economic growth in the long term. The group of the Bulgarian Development Bank also develops and offers lending programmes for small and medium-sized businesses, with only the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily housing and buildings having over 1500 contracts, which should be treated as support for small and medium-sized enterprises. The Financial Instruments Manager in Bulgaria, which we created in order to find the maximum connection between the needs of our market and what is offered in the form of different financial instruments. I expect contracts with managing authorities of the four operational programmes to be concluded at the beginning of January 2016 and announce the first application schemes. I have heard a lot of criticism of the draft budget, some of them rational, other openly populist and rational, using the tools of demagogy and lying. I would not be surprised to hear such verbal structures now from the parliamentary tribune, but they, colleagues, will not waver me in the confidence that the current government is good and the way the taxpayer's money is spent is better than before. I wish you a fruitful discussion and I ask you to support the Bulgarian budget for next year. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u9	Thank you, Minister Goranov. Please come in for clearance procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Please allow Mr. Dimitar Uzunov a member of the Supreme Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u11	We vote, fellow Members. 140 MPs voted: 135 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. The debate is open. The first request for him was given by Mr. Yordan Tsonev. We're listening, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable colleagues! The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will not support the proposed State Budget Bill for 2016. We will vote against this Bill, not only because we are opposed to the ruling majority in this Parliament, but also because we have principled disagreements with the philosophy of this budget. What do these principled disagreements express? Already in the first paragraph of the motives of the Budget Bill, the government says that a major priority of this budget and of the fiscal policy carried out over the next three years is maintaining the stability of public finances. A major instrument for preserving this stability, of course, the government sees in fiscal consolidation. This is our first general disagreement. In our opinion, fiscal consolidation is necessary, but it is not a sufficient condition for maintaining financial stability. We've said that more than once. Back in the day, our chairman, Mr. Mestan, on another occasion, pointed out that there can be no stability without development, without growth. I am using the occasion now to specify our view of the party that there can be no serious stabilisation without economic growth in the field of public finances. Since 2008, several governments have been forming budgets with a deficit that is understandable in times of crisis, understandable in the conditions of depression of the European and Bulgarian economy. But since last year, the European economy has shown rise, revival, economic growth within about 2%. The Bulgarian one too. We believe that the policy of promoting economic growth and through the budget should be more active. That is why this is our first general disagreement that there is not enough active policy in this budget to promote economic growth. Again, several Bulgarian governments let the Bulgarian economy ride the European train. If she's depressed, ours is depressed, if she shows signs of revival, so is ours. It is time to find thrust through the policies that take place in the budget for the Bulgarian economy, so that we speed up this growth. Because if we do not take the Bulgarian economy to growth of more than 4% in the coming years, I am deeply convinced that it will be necessary to implement the level of tax rates in the medium term in a few years. There is no way that revenue at this level of tax rates will become more than 37% of gross domestic product, as well as any mobilisation of resources and an increase in revenue to be made and there is no way that expenditure will fall below 38-39% of gross domestic product. So we need to find a way to speed up growth. I conclude this part of the analysis by the fact that the Movement for Freedoms will mobilise all of its expertise and at the beginning of next year will subject to public discussion its views and views of society and experts about what potential levers can be for speeding up economic growth in Bulgaria. But back to fiscal consolidation. This is the second independent budget of this government, the second attempt at financial consolidation, i.e. a reduction in the budget deficit. The first, we must say, is absolutely unsuccessful, regrettably speaking, and with a desire to be constructively critical. Why did he fail? Because within this year, the first independent budget, despite the stated desire of the finance minister and the government, this budget consolidation will not take place. As you have just heard, the budget deficit on a cash basis will be 3.3% and the consolidated 3%. Something that's close to last year by taking out the money that was lent, of course, to the Deposit Guarantee Fund. They will one day be returned, so the budget is moving about 3.5% last year and will be about 3.3 this year. Why, despite the very good results of the collection here, I want us to be objective, to put in a good word for the revenue agencies, the finance ministry and the finance minister. Indeed, the results in the revenue section are very good. Why didn't this financial consolidation take place then? The answer is very simple: because the other systems failed to implement the necessary reforms, did not implement the cuts, did not do what they had to do to cut costs, something more to optimize the costs. That is why we are skeptics that the second attempt will be successful, Mr. Minister. We are skeptics because these systems do not show desire, willpower and knowledge how to optimize costs. This government and this majority came to power with the desire to make reforms with the need to make reforms because society wanted them to. Let me remind you that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms withdrew its support for the previous cabinet because, in the context of political instability, we felt that the needs of society, budgetary systems and reforms could not be carried out in terms of lack of majority and lack of political stability. Thus came this cabinet, in which the group of reformers is a constituent coalition part. They run six ministries. I ask, although my question is rhetorical: what has been done in these ministries to optimize expenditure, to reduce it, to support financial consolidation, hence financial stability? What is it, exactly? The answer is: nothing. Reforms. The main objective of reforms, the essence, the content of reforms is the optimization of public funds, because any optimization of public activity involves precisely this unit of resources to be spent for a better quality of service. Let's start with health care. The sympathetic efforts and the sympathetic enthusiasm of Minister Pepi Moskov will not work simply because the reform is fundamentally wrong. Isn't there anyone who can tell Minister Moskov that you can't try to optimize and reform the medical part of this sector, services and so on, without touching the funding part? There are so many people in the Reformation Bloc who consult every day with the stockholders of the market economy. Is there no one to ask there with a reform that preserves the monopoly of the funding organisation, can resources be optimized, for better use of resources, and for a better product for the population? Of course he can't. And this reform is based on the condition that the monopoly of the Health Insurance Fund will not be touched. People who are for market economy do not allow market in the financing part of health care. Absolutely nonsense! In the other areas of education, I see against me the minister, there is not even an attempt to optimize expenditure for the simple reason that this is an underfunded sector and it has not been reformed since 2008 in fact. No attempts to reform have been made either. The most successful attempt was made during the period of the three coalition, when the minister, by the way, was Daniel Valchev, who is now part of the reforming majority. In the field of security. The Minister of Finance had to try to optimize the resources. Why? Why not the industry ministers? Why didn't we DPS support his experience? Because he didn't have to start reforming security systems with him. It had to complete the reform of security systems in a dialogue. There needs to be restructuring of costs, restructuring of maintenance, staff cuts, as I have recently heard, and not on the ground and so on. In the field of social expenditure. You have been blaming your minister in his efforts to make the first step in the pension reform, all of you, all coalition partners, have been blaming him. In general, the main conclusion that we can make is that I do not go into review of the other systems, the state is the same.. attempts of the finance minister to optimize, to do the work of the ministers of industry, who de facto, where out of ignorance, where because of the understanding of reform as a personnel management of the systems, I am also referring to the notorious judicial reform, which became clear to the children, and the prejudiced that it is nothing more than an attempt to master the judiciary. So what, the finance minister is trying to do the work of the industry ministers? He can't do it, he won't be able to do it, and no finance minister has ever done it. And the blaming of the reform makes it mainly the ministers from the coalition partner, from the Reformation bloc, who should, on their own request, be the engine of reforms. Instead, they're a brake. There is no greater evidence than the failure of the financial consolidation of Budget 2015. And now the attempt to continue it, as the finance minister said, and in depth, we very much doubt that it will be successful with these ministers and with this part of the coalition ruling majority. Blaming reforms cannot fail to affect overall governance. By the way, I use the word blaming for a reason. If you turn to the interpretation dictionary, in a figurative sense, the word "blamiram" means failure. For us from the DPS all reforms are failing, blaming, respectively, in a figurative sense I'll give you one more example. What is the attempt to reform regulators? To be mastered, of course. First, the energy regulator and experience has been sad so far. An attempt was then made to master the BNB, now it is on the agenda the Commission for Protection of Competition, to prepare the C.F.R.S. in the spring. And all of this is presented as a reform. No, dear colleagues of the Reformation Block! This is not reform and you can ask people from your circles who have done real reforms, whether the personnel management of individual sectors is reform. It's not reform. Reform is really taking steps to increase the efficiency of public spending with different actions in different areas. Including personnel, but it's not enough what's being done. I will finish my speech again with a reference to the dictionary. The word "blamiram" comes from "blam." I'm out of power by voting. The conclusions of the mandate carrier. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u13	Any lines to Mr. Tsonev? The line is Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! Interesting these had Mr. Tsonev in the speech and some of them I think can be shared. But the general structure of the speech, in my opinion, has another purpose. You are trying to throw the entire responsibility of the government over its constituent part of the Reformation Block and thus indirectly defend the policy of the Minister of Finance and the Government. I do not want to look for other, deeper reasons for this fact, but I think that the attempt to plot management and thus to allocate responsibility does not contribute to the government as a whole and the ruling coalition has its responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u15	Second line? A hole, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Stoilov! Thank you for your cue and for your kindness. Of course I don't do that if you do. I simply put our emphasis on reforms because the inefficiency of public spending and the inability to carry out real fiscal consolidation rests on the failed attempt to make reforms. The responsibility for this lies with the ruling majority, the government, but it is especially largely on this part of the majority, which is most eager to carry out reforms, heads up sectors in which the most public finances are sinking, and this is the most ineffective, and this does not result at all. Besides, your line gives me reason to say something else. I also see here the replacement of the vote of voters because the voters sent this part, and in fact they sent us all to this House to carry out reforms. But this part of the ruling majority, called the Reformation Bloc, the point of its participation in governance is this, so she says, and so her voters say it is to be an engine of reforms, to make these reforms happen. We can see they're not happening. It is quite normal for us, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, after we have taken the first step towards restoring political stability with what I have said that we have done with the cabinet, after we have done our political analysis and given the opportunity to broadcast this Parliament, to form this government in order to provide political energy for these reforms, we cannot be particularly sensitive and particularly critical of the implementation of these reforms and of the loss of time. We will be critical and sensitive because, because of a year of lost time, we have suffered political damage that is equal to ten years. Now what do you expect us to do? Don't be too careful? No, we will observe under a magnifying glass how these reforms are carried out, what is the will of those who are obliged to carry them out. And that's what this critical analysis of ours is about. We have not focused on the Reformation bloc for another purpose or on other parts of coalition governance. And we do not remove responsibility from GERB's government as a whole. The responsibility is theirs, the responsibility is also the responsibility of the Finance Minister. But we must say that we expect more than those who must be the driver of the reform. And as for liability, it was no accident that I completed my statement that the conclusion was for the carrier.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u17	Dear colleagues, after hearing on behalf of the importer the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, Mr. Goranov, it was also appropriate to hear the opinion of the Supreme Judicial Council. We let Mr. Uzunov in, he's already in the room. You have the opportunity to present us with your proposal for the budget of the judiciary, and then we will continue with the debates.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ministers! The main principle in developing a budget of the judiciary for 2016 is independence and forecasting an optimal amount of funds for the proper functioning of judicial institutions. The draft budget of the judiciary reflects the desire to increase the effectiveness of the entire work of the judiciary at the level corresponding to the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union. The reform in this area is aimed at achieving equal access to justice and a European standard in the field of legal aid, judicial enforcement and alternative dispute resolution. The estimates in the draft budget of the judiciary are fully in line with the additional priorities and measures of the updated strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary adopted on 17 December 2014 by the Council of Ministers in terms of full membership of the European Union. I should point out explicitly that the proposed version of the judiciary budget on the opinion of the Council of Ministers is, for the first time, close to the amount of expenditure proposed by the Supreme Judicial Council. The difference is 25 million. lv. We realize that in a period of financial crisis it is not right to point out our problems as more important than those of other institutions, but the funds set out in the draft budget of the Supreme Judicial Council are necessary to carry out the actions the Supreme Judicial Council carries out on the measures and deadlines taken. I would like very briefly to point out what measures the Supreme Judicial Council has set out and works. They are short-term, which we believe will be realized within 12 months and short-term, which we believe will be realized by the end of the year. First, remove unoccupied state numbers. Second, improvement of the procedure under art. 194 of the Law on the Judiciary. This is a procedure that allows the reassignment of magistrates from court to court or from the prosecution's office. Next: optimization of the judicial administration by reducing and sealing functions. Next, an analysis of the activities of military and specialised courts. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that this is the first Supreme Judicial Council to proceed with a reduction in the courts. The military courts in Pleven and Varna were cut off. These are the short-term measures. Long-term: building a single business programme. It will in any case facilitate the judicial activity, allow greater control over the administration of cases, transparency and efficiency. The next measure: criteria for calculating the workload of judicial officers. Making a new judicial card is the hardest task we have to solve together. Property management. All these measures, honourable Members, will allow and contribute to greater efficiency and accountability. And in conclusion, I am confident that you will vote on a budget that will allow the entire judiciary to work normally to meet the objectives set by the Bulgarian society, the government and the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u19	Thank you, Mr. Uzunov. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the debate. A statement request made by Mrs. Todorova from ABB.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u20	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members! On behalf of the ABB, I will give an opinion on Budget 2016. As we all know, the budget is a primary financial instrument for conducting the policies of a government. That is why we, as a party supporting the government, will vote on the....................................................................................... However, like politics, the budget can be successfully called the art of need, and in this we need to assess whether the necessary balance has been found. Therefore, I, in addition to my positive assessments, will share some criticisms in several aspects. The economic environment for Budget 2016 and the three-year forecast by 2018 We accept the targets for a gradual reduction of the deficit from 2% to 1%, but we do not accept that budget consolidation is not carried out at the expense of an increase in revenue, but at the expense of a reduction in expenditure from 40.2% for this year to 38.2% for 2018. As has already been noted in the previous speech, the economic growth set out in the three-year forecast is around and below the EU average. We believe that this objective is not ambitious enough. Among the objectives of tax insurance policy, along with economic growth and improving the business environment, there must be a reduction in social inequalities and an improvement in quality of life. This should not be empty populist speaking, but should have a real expression in the budget through concrete measures. We don't accept keeping the flat tax. As you all know, ABB is about progressive income taxation. We will therefore initiate a debate on which line in personal income taxation should be started and how to move towards family income taxation. We accept the increase of the minimum wage of 420 BGN. in 2016 and at 460 BGN in 2017, we believe that this process should continue further, because according to EUROSTAT data in 2014, the number of workers is increasing and we believe that one of the ways this trend to reverse is precisely by increasing the minimum wage. We do not accept the change in the current three-year forecast, according to which the increase in maximum social security income had to resume in 2018. Now this is out of the question. Revenue in Budget 2016 Unfortunately, we find that corporate tax revenues are only 5.6% low and follow income tax revenues for individuals. Low taxes should give more results in our opinion. This is not enough as an expression in gross domestic product, in the fight against unemployment, in the structure of the economy, for the vital level. Therefore, once again, we insist on income taxation. We support the extension of the VAT reimbursement period for certain services, limiting payments in cash to 5 thousand. BGN, increasing excise duties on cigarettes, increasing control over the transport and supply of liquid fuels, measures to collect early obligations. But we are strongly opposed to the taxation of agricultural properties that are within construction boundaries or the so-known property tax. We also support some of the measures to limit the transfer of companies with obligations of the state of unemployed persons. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional We accept the removal of education as a top priority. We appreciate very much that the payment of teachers and staff in schools will be increased, and we support the idea of greater funding for full-time training. However, we believe that the quality of education will not only be achieved with this. We expect even more convincing measures to reduce the dropout rate and increase the knowledge and skills acquired in secondary education. Unfortunately, we have found a lack of measures to encourage dual learning, ABB specifically benefits for the introduction of dual training. We are not satisfied that the levels of funding of higher education and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences remain the same and we will ask for an increase in the funding of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. We support the targeting of more budget expenditures to the sector of security, but this should be done in the case of clear reform measures that will give weight to technical equipment and efficiency. We demand policies that increase the final consumption of households and domestic consumption, which replaces imports. We expect stricter quality and quantitative control of imported agricultural goods from third countries. Unfortunately, we do not see convincing measures to support small and medium-sized farmers and to create jobs in this sector and to increase the level of processing of production. What kind of suggestions do we have? As a left-wing party, ABB will demand a budget correction in several directions. In the social sphere they will be in employment, social services and the budget of the Ministry. With regard to employment, we want an increase in funds for the National Employment Action Plan. Now the funds to reduce unemployment under this plan are 73 million and these levels have been preserved since 2010. Of course, the plan can be compensated by European funds, but it would not be good to spend these funds quickly without the corresponding co-financing. We need to come up with a mechanism for the durability and sustainability of this programme. We will want to increase the funds by 20 million under this National Employment Action Plan. Also, the increase in social services by 2 and 3% is not enough. Some services are maintained at the level of 2015. As the minimum wage increases, the increase in standards is completely insufficient. Many services will reduce their quality critically. It is said that there will be deflation, but we should not, with such arguments, dispute the need to raise these standards. There is also no provision for the deinstitutionalization of adults. We therefore insist that the reduced standards be compensated with increased subsidies for municipalities in which social services are developed. We also want an increase in funds to support people with disabilities by 17 million. lv. We expect an increase in the support funds of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for a significant increase in critically low wages and for improving working conditions. Increasing wages and capital expenditure, improving working conditions in the three agencies is essential. We have a few other suggestions. As I have already said, this is the introduction of a progressive income tax, the increase in maximum insurance income after 2018, before transferring control over companies to the state and the insurance system, not to accept the taxation of agricultural land in construction borders or property tax, twice a year Report to the National Assembly on State and State Debt Management and the establishment of a fund to stimulate investment in the Bulgarian economy with a clear timetable who will capitalise this fund, who will manage it and who will choose the policy, instruments and sectors in which it will be supported. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause from ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Todorova. - What's the line? I won't. The next person to sign up for a speech is Mr. Mihail Mikov from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, Dear Ministers! As usual, the budget is discussed in the absence of the Prime Minister. He's got other important things to do. The budget is discussed in a piece, without the fundamental philosophy, which is a reflection of the policies of this government, a government formed in a strange way by parties, some of which are constantly seeking to distinguish themselves from what the government does, and often use it as a form to raise the price for distribution of power, money, services in the country's governance. Somehow the update is included in this Bill. In fact, after 25 October 2015, more and more invisible results of today's government are visible, and Bulgarian citizens will begin to feel them more tangible. And if in February, the finance minister said that there would be no update if the prime minister at the meetings said that whoever minister wants money for an update would write his resignation, today we see an update in the submitted project, which is essentially a failure of the 2015 budget! Failure of performance despite the loud talk of increased revenues, which should lead to another trend not to the trend debt deficit, debt deficit, a trend that ticks Bulgaria towards a pathlessness and stabilizes this direction! Yes, indeed, there is stability of perspective! How else can we explain that in 2015 and 2016 the trend started in 2009 - 2010 - the fastest increase in the country's external debt as a percentage of the Bulgarian gross domestic product. Yes, this is indeed an essential result that can be traced by the policy of today's government. Dear MPs, there is indeed a 2 billion increase in expenditure at the expense of 5.3 billion external debt or 740 BGN. to every Bulgarian citizen. To this we place the wineries, we place the gardens, we place the increase in the social security contributions of farmers, we place the increased tax on people with minimum wage and we say to the Bulgarian citizens: "Congratulations on the invisible results that you will experience in 2016 with the policy collected in this budget! Otherwise, how do we explain that mothers with young children, all social categories related to the future of the nation, get nothing?! But the government gets its 2 billion. lv. Opaque, unwritten, because of these 2 billion can be taken percentages! You can't give child support and take rates unless you're like one of those from the Islamic State. And if you bet about $2 billion. lv. for capital expenditure, without being clear about what projects, without being clear under what conditions, the government and its supporting families can safely collect their money from the government. Dear MPs, it is clear and it is becoming increasingly clear that the situation, the economic situation in the country is getting worse. It is also reported by external observers, experts and specialists in Bulgaria, who cannot be defined as sympathizers of the left. They note that the spiral debt deficit leads Bulgaria to improbability. Dear Members of Parliament, this budget is a budget of deepening inequalities. It is also related to the tax policy that the government is pushing through and to the budget parameters that do not account for how municipalities will make next year, when the minimum wage thresholds are increased and, at the same time, the maintenance funds are not increased for salaries. It is very simple by cutting employees, because otherwise the municipal budgets will not be possible to make. Dear MPs, in this budget we from BSP left Bulgaria do not see in any way the perspective in front of the country. I believe that Bulgarian citizens also do not see it. And if the triumphant winning of the elections was reported quite powerfully in the media, today I see that each party supporting the government is looking for a way to distinguish itself from this budget. The main backbone of the government, the right component of GERB and the reformers, quite shyly defend the shiny parameters that Bulgarian citizens will feel next year. It is clear that next year we will spend and spend more money because it is a new election year. It is clear that as a result, government debt will reach 30% of gross domestic product. And if things are calmer today because of the low interest rates, then if they go up, then let the Bulgarian citizens think about it, because the interest costs of repaying the debt taken by today's government will become even less powerful for the economy of Bulgaria, which has no prospect of development. Besides the money for the EU funds there is no other fresh money in the Bulgarian economy. Direct investments are almost none, and the state continues to care much more about employees in the central administration, in fact, it is no coincidence under the motto that we will have a Presidency of the European Union, it is envisaged that there will be no universal application of the Law with regard to employees in the central administration, even if they are appointed more! Name and pay them from the budget of the Bulgarian taxpayers! The social picture in Bulgaria is extremely critical! Poverty continues to become a major scourge for the country's development. A large part of Bulgarian citizens are increasingly thinking about the prospect of looking for their future, their families and children, abroad. The overrated increase in education funds actually leads to a reduction in their percentage, as a percentage of gross domestic product. Combined with the right-wing decision, the money for secondary education to go to private schools, in essence, leads to a reduction of funds for education. Poverty is not a priority of the Bulgarian government, and not only as a priority in the Luxembourg Presidency, the Bulgarian government has not preferred in any way to include what the Luxembourg Presidency includes as a social dimension, but also in the budget it proposes to the National Assembly to vote on. I know you have a majority to vote on. I know that these days there will be a lot of hypocrisy to distinguish from this policy of the government, because it is the responsibility for it of everyone who supports the budget responsibility for what will happen in Bulgaria not only in 2016, but also in the coming years! We from BSP left Bulgaria will be the opposition of the opposition consistent and clear opposition because of the murderous poverty to which this budget condemns Bulgarian citizens because of the murderous lack of perspective of the economy because of the killer future of our children and the murderous future of Bulgaria! We will not support this budget and we will continue to consistently propose other solutions that give another future and another alternative to Bulgaria! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u23	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. First line? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Mikov! Tradition, practice in the National Assembly, is the discussion of the budget to be an occasion for a clear distinction between government and opposition. From this point of view, I accept your speech and will not comment on your assessment of the pros and cons of the budget, as well as the general conclusions of this. Once again, however, you allow yourself to violate the most elementary ethics, not to mention anything more of the kind of morality. Who gives you reason when you talk about diversity and strange governance, coalition or whatever you want to do to start your speech, to say that this government was motivated and created solely for the purpose of allocating, I quote, the power, money and services. I'm taking a line on purpose so that I can give you an opportunity in the back of your head to identify with what power, money or services the Patriotic Front has benefited. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Don't call from the stable. Be so kind as to answer my question. I believe that you have no moral right to such speeches, much less the moral right to draw general conclusions about the crisis, poverty and so on, because you ruled exactly one year ago, and five years before that you had a full mandate in a very strange coalition with the anti-Bulgarian party DPS and attack! I think this statement of yours is actually talking about corrupt thinking. [[the President signals that time has run out]] because you seem to think that government is a matter of distribution of power, money and services, but thank God, that's not the case.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u25	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Second line? I can't see. It's a hole, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers! Dear Mr. Simeonov, I do not know exactly what your relations are, but it is obvious that when a number of votes are sought a distinction from the ruling majority, when all Bulgarian citizens know who where and how you stand, I do not know why you feel affected. I didn't mention you by name, I didn't. [[Applause from BSP LB]] So such an apology... Okay, so you're not, then maybe the reformers aren't, the ABB aren't. It's all Boyko Borisov, isn't it? You are only here for the bright ideas that are not really clear in this government. They're definitely not clear! How can these parliamentary groups and these parties support such an anti-Bulgarian budget? What are you in for? How can you support it and with what responsibility? And when you go back to history, look, dear Mr. Simeonov, the parameters of 2009, look at the external debt, look at the surplus, it is a concept, pό other than the deficit, look at the parameters of foreign investments, the unemployment rate, the growth of social payments every year and the level of wages! If we have something we should have introduced in another way, it's the flat tax! We had to enter it with a deadline that would automatically fail! Because today, the maintenance of that tax, some things before you deny them, but you stubbornly hold on to this harmful and murdering Bulgaria in the conditions of such an economic conjuncture tax! It's what people from downtown tell you! There is no way 37% can be allocated through the budget and there will be a development of the country when Europe distributes about 50% on average, France - 57! You kill Bulgaria as an economy and perspective, you kill the development of Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian entrepreneurs! And understand that all who are here and who are periodically looking for a way to distinguish! Some timidly said they were left. What's left? You are constantly voting for right-wing policy and participating in the right-wing government! [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Which one's your left? Only the past, but the past is always a conditional category. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u27	The next speech is the People's Representative Borislav Velikov from the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen and ministers! I am beginning to defend the budget and the work of the Reformation bloc. Members will continue, as I think today is an important day. Colleagues of the opposition, of course, have the right to try to be corrective, and when this is done well-meaning, constructively, we need to see what is rational in their speeches and take it into account. But here, in the field in which I have been working hardest in the last 50 years of education and science, what we have done this year in the Committee on Education and Science, what the team of professors has done. Tanev at the Ministry, I think he deserves better words. His budget impact we can see, of course, and that we have in absolute terms an increase in the funds envisaged, as Minister Vladislav Goranov put it, as an investment in human capital. Undoubtedly, it is an investment to increase education funds by about 75 million, and when it comes to preschool and school education, it is 139 million. BGN, that's not small. It is also probably related to the fact that thanks to the efforts of many ministers, the name of Prof. Daniel Valchev is undoubtedly starting a change that we, with the adoption of the Preschool and School Education Act, confirmed. This is a Law which we adopted in this House, thanks to the efforts of the DPS in the Commission, with the valuable assistance of Lutvi Mestan, Prof. Georgieva and the other colleagues there, the BSP, too. Its adoption has probably also led to an increase in funds now, as it is evident that these changes ensure a more effective use of the funds themselves. In this sense, I think that the increase in teachers' salaries and the 80 million allocated for this. lv. It is certainly something that we must support with an open heart. Like every human case, and this budget, depending on the conditions we have, both international and in the country, there are some shortcomings that we in the Reformation Block intend to try to improve with proposals between first and second readings. With regard to higher education, you can see what is envisaged from the Higher Education Development Strategy, which we have adopted, namely, part of the support funds to be provided with the advantage of those higher schools that have higher quality of higher education. This is already envisaged in the budget and is also good. It may be a disadvantage that the funds envisaged for science are too insufficient for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Since time is relatively limited, I would also point out something else because I am one of the few chemists in this National Assembly that we would support solving the issue of the Chemical Faculty of Plovdiv University. It is undoubtedly one of the higher schools that will retain their universal university importance in the future and should respond to the demands of the academic staff of Plovdiv University. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u29	Any lines to Mr. Veliv? First line, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Velikov, I very much agree with what you said, but I would like to make a reply regarding what you mentioned about the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. In fact, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and with this budget is facing a major problem. We should note with concern that, according to our colleagues at the Academy, the budget envisages a serious shortage of funding for its activities. It is estimated somewhere around 12 million, which questions the normal functioning of very important institutes, very important projects on which the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is working. I will not stop at what it means and represent this for the development of Bulgarian science, but I think that both in your face and all colleagues in this National Assembly, we should also think between first and second reading to look for mechanisms to compensate for this deficiency. There's no explanation, there's no excuse if the Academy is facing such a serious problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u31	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Second line? Would you like a douche bag, Assoc. Gorgeous? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I share the things Mr. Mihov mentioned. It is a fact that for this year the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences' budget was in the range of 73 million. lv. and, regardless of their efforts, there is a discrepancy. It is true that now we will raise the salaries of the teachers that is correct, but the salaries of the young researchers at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and even the docs become almost equal to the average salary of the teachers, as far as I am aware. This would undoubtedly mean, including that we have a new minimum wage from next year - BGN 420, or we will have by accepting this today, means that from there all the salaries at the Academy should be raised at least a little bit in order to have some consistency, some proportion that is correct. In that sense, even if it isn't 12 million. BGN, between first and second readings, I propose that all parliamentary groups join together on behalf of all parliamentary groups to submit one such request, proposal between first and second reading, for additional funds for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Let's get together, decide how many to be. Let's talk, possibly with the support of professor. I hope we would also have had it, and with Vladi Goranov, even with Boyko Borisov, if necessary, but for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences something really must be done in a case. After all, what higher education will we have if we do not have research. Here I would even add that a certain increase should be considered for the Research Fund. Only about 18 million are envisaged there. lv. and some on top, as well as this year, which is very insufficient, especially given that we have already known reforms, new rules, new Council composition, new governor and so on. More transparent rules by which funds for projects can be approved in order to effectively use them! These are issues on which between first and second reading should be... Science doesn't have some color that doesn't allow us to reach a single opinion in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u33	Thank you for your douche bag. Mr. Simeonov, come in. Next to speak is recorded Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria is being discussed, perhaps the most important meeting for one year ahead. The Prime Minister is absent. We only see two ministers here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u35	Three. The lady...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u36	Three ministers. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front, I would like a 10-minute recess in which the government will be so kind as to bring the ministers together and bring them here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u37	You asked for a break? Yeah. My fellow Members, I'm announcing a 15-minute recess. We'll continue the session at 10.40. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u38	Dear colleagues, the break is over. We will proceed with the hearing. Speech Mr. Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u39	The ministers are gone!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u40	Here you go, Mr. Enchev. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Ivanov, take your seat. Colleagues are expecting ministers. Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u41	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, non-respectable ministers! Naturally, I cannot support this budget and any normal MP, any socially thinking MP, has no right to support it. When we talk about income policy in Budget 2016, the symbolic increase in the minimum wage, which is largely due to the resistance, let me say it directly to employers who imposed on the government the wicked idea that the increase in wages leads to an increase in unemployment. And I ask myself on this occasion: The government of Boyko Borisov of whom is the government of the voters, or of the employers? [[GERB lines.]] The employers, I ask you, honourable colleagues from GERB, who replicate me: will they decide to freeze the minimum wage in the country to make greater profits or you, which you claim to be elected to the people? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u42	Please calm down in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u43	Yes, I ask for peace of mind among the part of GERB. The government, honourable Members, is betting on an increase in the minimum wage in 2016 and 2017, proposing an increase which, however, is not even close to the minimum minimum wage standards in the European Union, but it is more worrying that 2018 has been declared a zero year in which there will be no increase in the minimum wage rate at all. This gives me reason to say that for the first time in 26 years with its action and its inactions in income policy, the government serves corporations and large businesses, leaving the working people of Bulgaria behind. You serve corporations and big business, not your constituents! If in Budget 2016 the wage policy is discriminatory, I can say it bravely, as it deliberately stimulates poverty, then the state debt situation [[Where is the Minister of Finance?]] is explosive. In two years Bulgaria doubled its public debt and came first in the European Union at the rate of its growth. This policy brings us into a dangerous debt spiral in general opinion, from which a number of European countries have already suffered. Reference: Greece. There is a separate issue of the appropriateness and effectiveness of the use of the loans taken and transparency in their use. It should be explicitly stressed that attempts to achieve sustainable economic growth only through strict budgetary constraints [[Where is the Finance Minister, again I ask myself?!]] did not result in positive results. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that among the leading priorities and objectives of financial policy the biggest challenges currently facing Bulgaria are: firstly, the extreme inequality in income; secondly, mass poverty, demographic crisis and poor health [[naturally the Minister of Health is gone again]] . Now let's see the philosophy of pension policy in Budget 2016. Once again, an illogical approach is proposed in the indexing of old and newly granted pensions for internship and age. On this occasion, I should tell the importers of the Draft Budget 2016 and the Middle-term Programme by 2018, one thing to tell them: the social consequences of such decisions are extremely negative, as they lead to a deepening of the lag of the size of the old pensions of the size of the newly granted pensions of persons with the same contribution to the pension system, that is to say, social discrimination. With such a double standard in the pension area will deepen not only the property inequality between the people of the third age, but will also oppose, which is already happening, the different generations of pensioners. Unfortunately, the next three-year period will obviously not fulfil the commitment to abolish the ceiling of pensions and consistently comply with an important principle of their size, pensions, to fully reflect the labour and social contribution of citizens. Yesterday I marked it, but I will repeat it again: on what basis the ceiling of all pensions is frozen, all of them without exception, but this does not apply to the President, the members of the Constitutional Court and the honourable Mrs. Tsacheva. I ask: with what do the Head of State, the President of Parliament and the members of the Constitutional Court have patrician status, as pensioners, when they become, while the rest of the pensioners, including all of you with frozen pensions, will you have plebe status? And what about finally reducing unemployment in Budget 2016? The estimated 97 million. lv. They're too short and they're a miserable bite. This draft budget needs to be reviewed between first and second readings, as this is not only about 2016, but also about the next three-year period. And this is a budget of misery that needs humanization between first and second readings. Whatever it takes, I'll do it for this humanization. However, I hope you hear something between first and second reading to take such measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u44	Please get it over with! Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Mr. Valeri Simeonov, you have a request for a statement. [[Heckling]] If you want, you can wait for another MP to give the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u45	There are no ministers!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u46	You have the floor, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u47	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I guess we can't get the ministers to attend. Here they are in extremely limited composition. For this reason, I do not see the point of doing anything and I intend to recommend to my colleagues in the Patriot Front Group not to support the budget. [[Applause from BSP LB and PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u48	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? I can't see. Procedure Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, since it is obvious that the ministers are not interested in the budget debate and are not there, Mr President, I propose that you invite the Prime Minister to attend the discussion and adoption of the budget. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] This is the most important executive management document, so it is quite normal to be present. Moreover, as far as I understand it, the opening of the sports hall in Dupnitsa has been completed................................................................................................ [[GERB noise and lines]] So it's okay for him to be in the gym now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u50	Mr. Boychev, I understand. That was Mr. Simeonov's proposal. He's been notified. From now on, there's nothing else we can do. We continue with the following speeches. Prof. Stanilov, Parliamentary Group of the Party of Ataka.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u51	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members of all parliamentary groups! I am involved in the discussion of the tenth budget of the Republic. All these ten budgets were subject to the same neoliberal policy, which is usually called right-wing policy. I do not call it right policy because I do not think that neoliberalism is really right, because economic principles in recent years have shaken the confidence that neoliberal policy is right, because there are other alternatives that are right and I will not talk about them. I will start with two concrete examples to move on to the criticism of budget philosophy. Yesterday I was at a meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media. There were dozens of speeches about the culture budget and no statement touched the funding of cultural heritage. I would like to remind you that a year and a half ago the famous exhibition took place in Luvera, where the Minister of Culture, the Prime Minister, stood and were proud of big words and with high praise for themselves. They were also praised by our partners in the European Union for this exhibition what the Bulgarian cultural heritage is in the context of the cultural heritage of Europe. This type of monuments, which were presented there, was a result of the efforts of some 3500 people in Bulgaria who are engaged in preserving the movable cultural heritage, and so to speak, these nameless workers work in national, regional, municipal and so on. These people are highly qualified, many of them are doctors, know two or three languages and deal with the identification of these monuments, their determination and maintenance, as this is a very complex process known throughout the world. There are some extraordinary people working there in all the museums. The people I said were about 4,000 people received an average salary of 440 BGN. In the Commission, none of the representatives of the Ministry, of political parties, of parliament and, therefore, mentioned anything about them. The average teacher's salary brought her well between 600 and 700 BGN. These people, I repeat, get 400 leva. And no one pays any attention to them. There is no increase in the general financing of the preservation of cultural heritage in the budget of the Ministry of Culture. There's a million for a reform that has nothing to do with direct funding. This is repeated for many years and for many years the demands are weak, and in the management of GERB there are none. There's an increase in stage arts by 10 million. BGN, but there is no increase in cultural heritage. Unfortunately, there is no Minister of Culture, here is his deputy, but this remains a fact to which everyone who attended this Commission has been silent. I suppose there will be silence here, too, because no one can deny my words. I think this is our highest expression of the simplification of Bulgarian society because the Bulgarian society denies the right to work with high materials and to have world achievements in this regard. I'm going to the second part of my speech - the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. From this tribune I have set an example that two prime ministers of Bulgaria have tried to destroy the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. This is Alexander Stamboliyski and Bogdan Filov. You know who, how, where did he graduate from one on the block, the other on the gallows. That is symbolically said, and here as many times as I have spoken on this matter, no one has opposed me and cannot oppose this. In the first management of GERB, honourable Members, an attempt was made to destroy the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences by law. Mr. Borisov, I do not know by what assumption he stopped the direct passing of this law, but now the financing of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the three-year forecast shows that the same policy remains and this is already done with a financial instrument. You can't argue with that either. We give money for education, we talk all the time about education, about funding education. However, first, we prepare people who then go to work abroad and power foreign economies. Secondly, high levels of education cannot be achieved without research work. Speaking of research work, we are talking about this research work, which is being done at universities, but we are not talking about the main winner of the scientific results. "The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which gives more than 50%. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences of all structures involved in research work has only received an international audit from the Association of European Academies and this audit is very high. For Europe, it is the average level, with five or six of the institutes having an assessment of the AAA and this means a global level. To this no one pays attention and continues to talk about various things about funding, about anything. I've talked to Minister Djankov many times about this, he just didn't want to hear me and said things that weren't true about funding. The subsidy of EU countries is between 87 and 90% of the total activity, the rest is from private companies and projects. That's the truth that no one can deny either. I call on you, if you have any intention of taking an attitude towards this, to join, as I will join the proposal of Assoc. Borislav Velikov to finance the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, but this is only a cosmetic measure. Just a cosmetic measure! Keep in mind that within 10 years, if this continues, the Academy will disappear, and universities do not have the capacity to assume all the functions, and all this activity will cease to be a disgrace to the whole of Europe by talking about European measures. Finally, I'd like to go with a few words to the philosophy of budget. I would say that for 10 years we have been involved in the discussion of the budget, for us all these budgets are the same because they obey the same philosophy. The increase in some or other parameters does not mean anything. The salaries, honourable Members, in the budgetary sphere should in general be subject to a common classification, because so far the wage policy has always been a piece of paper. She's in a piece now, and that's why these results are. The question, honourable Members, is not in Minister Goranov, it is not in Minister Tomislav Donchev, it is not in the other ministers at all. The issue is the general philosophy of governance, which is expressed by the ruling parties, and is applied by the Council of Ministers. If you want to treat the budget in this way to reality, you get these results, for which the criticism of the opposition, and partly of the government, is correct and true, but this cannot change unless the principles change. At the time, we voted against flat tax, when everyone voted for........................................................................................ Against the flat tax we have fought always, we fight now. The issue is not even in the flat tax, it is in the conservative attitude towards finance; it is in the so-called "neoceanism" that is already being applied in some European countries. The issue is in the tax system and not even in the removal of flat tax, but in a tax system that resembles, for example, the tax system of your beloved America. In Bulgaria the high upper thresholds of the tax system are not criminalized. I don't know if any of you remember that Mr. Georgi Gergov didn't pay a few million taxes, got caught and convicted. How? Probable! That's embarrassing. In the United States, for a million dollars, you go to jail and you lay him there until the second coming. You're always setting an example for America and... Nothing's going on! Therefore, those who say that the budget serves oligarchy are right. They are right and there is no doubt about it and this will lead to disaster. If the flat tax had been removed, they would have gone to the grey economy. If there's a country, they won't go anywhere. They can always be caught with any measure and pay because they don't pay, or if they pay, they pay half. That is why we think and are convinced, and we will vote against such a budget, as we have always voted, because there will be no tangible result. Another thing is that the budget does not show those financial instruments that must cause investment in production. This can happen.. we have proposed it many times in different laws, but, unfortunately, this is not being heard.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u52	Would you like a time extension, Mr. Stanilov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u53	Yeah, sure. Thank you for your attention. The colleague who will speak after me will use this extension.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u54	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. A line to the statement? I won't. Next is a speech from MP Dimitar Tanev of the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u55	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am convinced that today we will adopt proposals from the Council of Ministers Draft of the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016. The adoption of the state budget is a key moment for any government where the ruling majority parties will state their clear and firm support for the stability of governance. It is quite logical and expected that opposition parties will attack the Draft Law and try to downplay and underestimate its advantages. Therefore, I will present briefly a few points based entirely on objective criteria, which predestined the support of the Reformation bloc. Firstly, we must strongly support the government's efforts to reduce the budget deficit to 2% of gross domestic product. We must make annual efforts to reduce public spending, the level of budget deficit, and hence the level of government debt. Secondly, we need to note the maintenance of the levels of basic taxes. I am referring to VAT, income and corporate tax, which is one of the conditions for support from the Reformist bloc. Thirdly, we take into account the government's efforts to increase revenue, which is the result of both the planned economic growth of 2.1% I would also like to dispel speculation on the subject of new government debt. The maximum level of new government debt of 5.3 billion provided for in the Law. lv. It is actually a mechanism for reducing interest payments on old debts accumulated by previous governments. This is because under the Law the maximum government debt to 2016 cannot exceed 26.6 billion, which is 2 billion more than the previous year or this is comparable to the level of the budget deficit, which means if we have a budget deficit we will also have a new debt. We must therefore support efforts to reduce this deficit. What can be improved? What would we like to complement between the two readings of the Law? The reformation bloc will make proposals and make the necessary efforts to continue and accelerate administrative and pension reforms. For us it is unacceptable and we note that, with the update of the 2015 budget, some of the ministries, mainly in the sector of Security, have failed to cope with the planned optimization of their offices. We will propose texts for this reform not to stop and continue in 2016, taking into account the specific features of each of the systems. We will be particularly persistent in speeding up the pace of pension reform. I am referring specifically to the forthcoming pre-categorisation of the employees of the power offices, which must also be reflected in the parameters of the budget, and especially with regard to the fight against the so-called fake pensions, which drain the pension system and which for 2016 cost more than 1 billion. 600 million on the state budget, and every year, they're growing by about 200 million. Our proposals will be tabled between the two readings and I am convinced that we will receive their support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u56	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. - What's the line? I won't. The next statement is Prof. Gechev of the Parliamentary Group of BSP LB.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! I would systematize as six major budget failures that are being proposed. Firstly, the main objective of this budget is completely wrong. I quote: The main priority of the fiscal policy carried out in the medium term remains the desire to maintain the stability of public finances. This cannot be the main objective of the budget, honourable Members. If this was the main goal, it is easily feasible. What if we shut down education, health and security? Then we'll get a budget surplus. There are no such main objectives in the budgets of the Member States of the European Union. The colleague Minister of Finance, the Ministry and the government had to open the 2015 budget to the other EU member states to see that the main goal is a completely different economic growth, high employment, increase in exports, improvement in living standards. In addition, the government's aspirations at all costs offer us an accelerated budget consolidation, which would mean an accelerated belt tightening. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a contradiction in the draft budget. Open to page 1. 12, where he writes: In the first half of 2015, economic activity in developed countries was supported by low oil prices to be careful now and the slower rate of fiscal consolidation. What's going on here? Western, North and Eastern Europe have higher economic growth than Bulgaria. Why? Because there is a slower consolidation of the budget, slower tightening of the belts. The opposite here offers us an accelerated tightening of the belts of an economy that is already moving at the bottom and has the lowest indicators in the European Union. In addition, in this budget there is no motor of the Bulgarian economy. Where's the investment fund? Ladies and gentlemen, don't you read the European Union's programmes?! Hasn't the Ministry of Finance heard about the Juncker programme for over 300 billion. euros that are directed towards investments with the assistance of governments and the European Commission? Why did you cross the 500 million investment program? BGN, which helped to level the levels of Bulgarian municipalities? What's the problem, and we're offering this fund of at least 500 million. lv. to be restored, as this is European practice, so can Bulgarian practice, and in this we can provide assistance to the economy in the Bulgarian municipalities, especially in the regions where they continue to fall behind. In addition, it has already been mentioned several times on the exact opposite movement and the unacceptable philosophy of the budget of the state to abdicate from the economy, to reduce the share of expenditure and revenues in gross domestic product. The other 27 Member States of the European Union, ladies and gentlemen, are doing the opposite. Open the new budgets adopted in September 2015 by the other Member States and you will see that everywhere people propose a preliminary increase in budget expenditure compared to gross domestic product growth. Germany has set aside 20 billion. EUR investment fund in its budgets thanks to these costs. Here we are offered some unheard of in the world economic theory and practice of countries that are with low growth or are in depression, the state to abdicate the economy, to remain at random, just, you see, to maintain some imaginary indicators. So such a policy is absolutely unacceptable. We have said before that Bulgaria should use fiscal policy even more to stimulate the economy. Since we are in the Monetary Council of the Bulgarian State, the Central Bank institution and the government cannot use monetary policy to stimulate development as it is prohibited by law. Therefore, unlike other Member States of the European Union, the only hope for State aid for economic development is through fiscal policy, and this is not offered with this budget, nor with budgets until 2018. In addition, abdicating the state from the development of the economy also leads to collapses in all major, key sectors. There is no priority in this budget. What are the facts? - the share of education costs falls from 3,6 to 3,4%; - Health from 4.5 to 4.4; - Defence and security, in these troubled times from 3.7 to 3.5 of gross domestic product; - economic activities from 6.5 to 5,5%; - the social security share is frozen. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been talking about percentages here. Yes, economic comparisons between countries with different degrees of development occur in percentage, it is an international practice. If anyone doesn't like it, they should come up with a new methodology. But where are the priorities of the Bulgarian state? Should I explain that if there is a priority for education, the share of expenditure on education in gross domestic product must grow, and they do not grow, but decrease. Have colleagues heard about knowledge savings as one of the European Union's main objectives? Have they read the European Union directives that the share of education in gross domestic product should reach at least 4.5%? Did you know that, on average, Member States of the European Union spend about 6% of gross domestic product on education and a small country on which we can compare ourselves by population and territory is more developed because it allocates 8,8, almost 9% of its gross domestic product to education. Here we are offered the next three years to reduce these costs, which is absolutely unacceptable. After that, the policy of extreme consolidation, which I mentioned, is wrong. What requires an economy that crawls down the bottom, ladies and gentlemen, that we go to accelerated consolidation, in the sense of leveling budget deficits? We have always stressed and now we say again: the Maastricht criteria must definitely be met! Absolutely our budget deficits must be below 3%! But for what reason is the objective of balancing the budget within three years? Let's see what other countries do, ladies and gentlemen. Great Britain of more than 10% currently the budget deficit is 4.6; Spain is 4.4.; France is 4.1%. Two weeks ago, President Holland asked and received permission from the European Union not to enter criminal proceedings and France to continue to enjoy a deficit of 4.1%. Bulgaria should not follow this policy over 3% of gross domestic product. But what does it require, again, that we tighten the belt of the barely masculine Bulgarian business to 0%, provided that we can simply follow the policies of other countries? In fifth place, this is a budget of major government debt. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an absolute record in the history of Bulgaria. There is no such period when in three years the government offers us a doubling of government debt in colossal, chasing 30% of gross domestic product. You do realize that there's no way that this spiral could suddenly be reversed in 2019? Going into the double-debt spiral with colossal loans, 5 billion. 300 million just next year means that the governments after 2018 will not be able to get out of this drill right away. It is about the accumulation of principals, interest rates, economic settings. So this is a budget of colossal debt, which is why it is absolutely unacceptable. Last but not least, the tax system. All attempts by the government to introduce new taxes have suffered a complete collapse, as well as a collapse in terms of reducing administrative costs in defence and the Ministry of Interior. All attempts failed. I understand that the last taxes will be withdrawn. Ladies and gentlemen, won't the people's representation finally understand that since 95% of the world's countries are under progressive taxation and since there is no developed country or rapidly developing country without progressive taxation, we colleagues have a dilemma? One dilemma is what you are offering us - the debt spiral with billions of levs; the other dilemma is the introduction of progressive tax and an increase in revenues in the state treasury, respectively we take the burden of our development - our generation, not now to waste the money in billions and make our children and grandchildren pay the loans. Finally, we will definitely not support this Bill because it does not meet the state and challenges of the Bulgarian economy and is in blatant contradiction with the policies of the European Union. Secondly, this is a budget and budget forecasts where they want us to abdicate the country's socio-economic development. Thirdly, it is an abdication of the state from the economy based on colossal external debts. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget must be rejected because this Law demonstrates management weakness, lack of ideas and complete lack of interest in the fate of Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian companies. Thank you. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u58	Thank you, dear Professor. Gechev. - What's the line? I can't see. The speech is given by the national representative Georgi Kovachev from the Bulgarian Democratic Center. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members, first I will begin with the very short line to Prof. Gechev: There is no way this budget will not be adopted. The configuration will again be four times four. I will start by saying that the state budget has a very interesting definition and peculiarity. It is that this law, apart from the legally mandatory provision of state revenue and expenditure, is an expression of the attitude of the ruling formation, in this case coalition, of society, which is also a key tool for conducting various types of policies. It is also a political act, but also financial and industrial technology, because it covers both the order and the way and the nature and purpose of the means by which individual budgetary systems carry out their work. A year ago at the same time we commented on both the update of the old budget and prepared the new budget. Then we drew the following three conclusions. The budgetary framework, which my colleague Chobanov had prepared, was very ambitious, achieved economic growth, but there were three things that made it impossible to endure. First of all, an unstable political environment. There were also outstanding costs in some separate public systems and, let us not forget that the fourth largest bank in Bulgaria also went bankrupt. How did we end the year? With a record deficit on the basis of 5.8% and a level of government debt, 26.9 I quote the data slightly more correctly. In this respect, it is correct to note that these values are still far from the reference limits of the Maastricht convergence criteria of 60%. So we're somewhere in the middle, and they're still far from the average debt levels of the European Union, 86.8%. However, it is correct to note that, at the end of last year, the government debt rose, I quote precisely: 7 billion. 983 million or 9.3% in just one year. As a starting point, I would point out that in the period since the start of the crisis, at the end of 2009, the ratio of government debt to gross domestic product was 13.4% or let's face it, in this five-year crisis period Bulgaria has raised its debt double. Annual deficits, respectively the accumulation of government debt, is a serious problem. But as you can see, even the left sector of the House does not criticize you so harshly if this led to solving individual problems in the individual sectors that reproduce them. We would remind you that last year the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center was the one that supported you in the adoption of the 16 billion loan line. lv. Its purpose was for two main things: to cover the old debts and to be able to cover your current deficits. And they logically had to fall because we were talking about reforms. All this year, this is now a commendation indeed, as we are a constructive opposition, talking about higher collections of taxes, excise duties, increased imports/exports, economic growth of 2% and increased consumption. Expectations for faster fiscal consolidation would have been justified if the macro framework of Budget 2015 had not been validated by an additional 882 million. lv. in the spending part, which, on a cash-based basis, as the previous ones said, will once again increase the deficit from 3% to 3.3%. This brings us closer to the limit of the minimum required adjustment of half percent. Simply put, the overexecution of 832 million. lv. could not compensate for the increased costs of the current budget. I will sharpen your attention to a text of our Public Finance Act........................................................................................... 27, para. 5 annual budget deficit exceeding that referred to in para. 4, i.e. 2% of gross domestic product is allowed in exceptional circumstances. Here I expect a response from our finance minister to tell us exactly what the exceptional circumstances are How can we believe that you will achieve a faster consolidation, when this year you have failed to cope with twice as much as a step? The logical question also arises.... will we ever have a budget that we will not update? Why am I making an announcement about extraordinary circumstances? It's an unpleasant little detour, but look what happened in France and the President's reaction. Despite the record deficit you mentioned, Gechev in France and the huge government debt.. they are in the last, third part, on the table in the Eurozone immediately increased the cost of defence. At the same time, strikes were running in Bulgaria. There are greater security experts here than I do, but if, for example, our government had decided, given this situation in Europe and why not in Bulgaria, to raise the budget for the security sector, I am convinced that there is no MP who would allow himself to vote against. It's a fact. Here, this is an extraordinary circumstance, but all the other arguments, personally for me, are not. It is obvious that our main problem is with the expenditures - a remark that the International Monetary Fund made to us a week ago. The 2016 draft budget provides for a cost of 39.4% compared to the gross domestic product...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The so-called administrative reform, colleagues on the right, did not take place at all, to put it mildly, in the scale of which you speak. Last year, you stated in your reasoning that your expectations for reducing staff costs had to be over 350 million, including a reduction in wage costs and insurance contributions in the budget by 10%, the effect of which was estimated at around 300 million. lv. Data at the end of August showed that staff costs were limited by only 0.7%. The fact that you have officially confessed to the collapse of administrative reform does not really justify you, I am simply quoting data. You also did not foresee benefits for the employed in the process of optimization. Instead, in the new 2016 draft budget, we have a nominal increase of 225 million. lv. the cost of staff compared to this year. The increase is predicted in 16 departments, including the Council of Ministers, in the Ministry of Finance, and notice, in the Central Election Commission; although with little. What else do the numbers show in the new budget, we will quickly have expenditures of BGN 21.5 billion. or 2 billion more, we'll have higher incomes than indirect taxes - 1.5 billion. lv. The maximum amount of the new debt to be taken over by the State in 2016 is limited to 5.3 billion. lv. Next year we have maturity, correct me, and there is a Deputy Minister of Finance, about 1 billion. 400 million. lv. Plus the new deficit that you've anticipated for a billion dollars. 800 million. BGN, an interest arises why you need a buffer of 2.1 billion. lv.? Finally, the 2015 budget will be updated to allocate 830 million. lv. from better revenue performance this year, which, to our surprise, the government will not use to reduce the deficit, but to distribute additional funds to ministries and to finance projects under European funds. The natural conclusion is that it is high time that this reform, which you are all talking about, is the administrative reform and which Mr. Tsonev mentioned at the very beginning, to carry it out. Because the topic of civil servants is extremely sensitive. Yes, it is true that budget revenues are rising, but indirect taxes, honourable Members, come from end-users, that is, from us. It's normal to have sensitivity on this subject. As for the recovery of the Bulgarian economy, it will not be possible to take on a challenge without a complete reform. You mentioned foreign direct investment. On them, de facto, no movement. In the last two years not only in this budget have not moved, but they have not moved in the next draft budget, but in relation to the previous two years they have fallen, to be exact. The analysis also shows that the decline in investments in the buffer will be around 32%. Repeat, 32%! Business will again rely mainly on European projects, in which there is no harm, but we point out to you that it is precisely this shortage in the funding of European projects that is currently giving birth to most of the deficit. That's the truth. Among other things, the talkers also mentioned the slowdown of the world economy, not only in China, for a number of reasons. As time passes relentlessly, I move on to a moment where I also want special attention to you, as no one mentioned it. That's the deflation. We have been in deflation conditions since August 2013. For those who do not handle financial terminology, this is negative inflation. It has very small correlation changes during the summer season this year, but overall there is sustained negative inflation in Bulgaria. It is naturally caused by the low oil prices, a drop in prices, some major raw materials, the cheapening of the European currency, you all know these things. Unfortunately, deflation goes hand in hand with reduced consumption. Again, it is correct to note that small economies cannot be so influenced by deflation processes. It is right to mention that in some ways even she can help them. The expected average annual inflation, however, is expected to be minus 0.9%. This brings the following risks to job cuts, increasing unemployment, shrinking incomes, which will directly affect the revenue side of the fissure. For the non-specialists in this House, I would like to mention that the revenue part of the budget is not mandatory. Only the cost is required because the costs are fixed. They are very directly influenced by changes in price levels. We of the People's Union and the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center believe that expectations for raising oil prices, raising rates gradually on the excise duty of cigarettes and strengthening domestic demand are not sufficient reasons for positive changes. The arguments are true, but they're not enough. We believe that a real revision of the country's tax policy is needed and a political challenge to synchronise the rates. Sooner or later, sooner or later, you'll have to gradually raise taxes. That's the truth. Someone has to take this political responsibility. It'll make it easier for us and we won't attack every budget the finance minister. In Bulgaria, a very bad trend continues to continue the corporate tax to be a lower income feather compared to the income tax of individuals. This also found an expression in this budget where indirect taxes were increased. Again, they are paid by end users. This is another proof that the business in our country is either not developing in an appropriate environment, or just most of it is in the grey sector. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In conclusion, we from the People's Union and from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center believe that this budget follows the philosophy of the old one, which proved a very serious inefficiency of the spending of the state. As constructive opposition, we can really promise that we will continue to support every good step, every good idea of yours, but we do not include the current draft budget. For this reason, and for all those considerations that I have expressed, let us definitely give our support. Thank you. [[Single applause from the BBC.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u60	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Petar Chobanov from the Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u61	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! The unstable macroeconomic situation seen in the country and the deterioration of the external environment, which will inevitably occur after the tragic events of the previous Friday, suggest risks to the forecast for economic growth in 2016. The only engine in 2015 so far is exports, but there are serious risks for its slowdown. In the first half, the negative trend of consumption and investments was observed. Internal investments in fixed capital have returned to the negative territory since the beginning of 2015 and in the first quarter of the year decreased in real terms by 6.8%. Similar values were observed in the first quarter of 2013. The deterioration of the business environment is confirmed by two facts. The first is that there is no real entrepreneurial initiative and the financing of new investments is expected to be made exclusively with European funds. Secondly, the banks are extremely conservative because of the upcoming valuation of their assets and the opinion that they are actually granting funds not to those they need. There is no policy to break the negative trend for a permanent decline in domestic investments that reduce the long-term growth potential. There is a generous update of the 2015 budget through budget innovations. The next year's transitional and final budget provisions, which pollute the budgets for next year. Other budgetary innovations are widely used, such as the inclusion of all tax laws in one to prevent real discussion. There is no practical consolidation in 2015 and the deficit increases to 3.3%. The update foresees a generous increase in staff funds by the end of the year and simply finds and finances the undisciplined spending of the ministers. Increasing staff funds at the end of the year is the worst possible testimonial for the respective ministers, who have not made any efforts to reform their administration and, by all accounts, have no intention of doing so. The generous update should not be supported by even more disciplined representatives of the ruling coalition, if any. The proposed new taxes and economic deficits, which even on a cash basis exceed 3% of gross domestic product, require a discussion and answer to the question: What public costs are necessary for the provision of quality public services and are the revenues sufficient to finance them? Chronic deficits that continue in the coming years as well as large annual government debt limits show that the current level of revenue is not sustainable enough to finance expenditure needs. The normal liberal and disciplined outcome in such a situation is only one.. improving the efficiency of public spending through real and deep structural reforms. Such ones are missing, not even an idea is observed in most of the ministers how to happen. This puts the Ministry of Finance in a difficult but familiar situation to propose a design of the reforms that face serious resistance to the ministers. For these reasons, the lack of reforms leads to chronic deficits, a rapid increase in debt and an attempt to invent new taxes that contradict by definition of right-wing governance. The cost structure is also deteriorating. The current costs, as a share of the total, increased from 74,3% to 76,2% in 2016 and the capital costs decreased from 18,2%, most likely fulfilled, to 17,5% planned, the implementation of which is often below these levels. Therefore, the negative trend is deepening and this will continue in 2017. The estimates of municipalities show neglecting the need to increase capital expenditure. A planned increase outside state delegated activities is symbolic and does not meet their needs. The delayed real start of the new programming period deepens these problems. There is no progress and reforms in terms of fiscal decentralisation of municipalities. No real efforts are made to expand the municipal income base without increasing the overall tax burden. Because of the arguments presented by me and by my colleague Mr. Tsonev, we will not support the budget, and between the two readings we will make constructive proposals that will not break the overall balance, but will be useful for the development of the economy and for ensuring a better life for people. Thank you. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u62	Any lines to Mr. Chobanov? I won't. Colleagues, there is no possibility that before an hour has passed since the previous interruption, a break will be declared. There are three other members of parliament: Mr. Dimitar Bajraktarov, Mr. Nikolay Alexandrov and Mr. Martin Dimitrov. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? There is. There will be a break before the debate ends at 12:00 p.m. we will make a break. Now the word for speech has Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Dear Ministers! I hope that the number of ministers will increase because it is still a project submitted by the Council of Ministers and the presence of all ministers at the head of the Prime Minister is mandatory. There's been a lot of speeches. Many of them are within the framework of political blabbering, and another part is absolutely untenable! Naturally, there were good points in some of the fellow Members' speeches. When we comment on the Draft Budget, first of all, it is good to step on the numbers, because the late Professor said. Costa Pergilov: The numbers speak a lot as long as you can read them. On the left, I heard from people who spoke and spoke against poverty, that there was no direct private investment, but in fact poverty was not at stake since yesterday or that day. By the way, what do the numbers say about foreign direct investment? January 2014 I repeat: January 2014. Fifty-eight million euros as the main sources of these investments are, notice, offshore companies with unclear capital origin. Month February 2014 "33% collapse of foreign direct investment." From then on, everything continues with such a trend. A revival with regard to foreign direct investment is noted only at the end of November, observing an unwritten economic law that money loves peace and quiet or the moment when the state steps on the tracks of some sort of political stability. Naturally, in such a collapse of foreign direct investments, beset by the previous government, it is at least unethical for a former finance minister to speak of these things, given that he has ruined the entire climate, first of all, through his budget. However, we can't help but take into account what really wasn't done in 2015. Just a few days ago, the Deputy Prime Minister and Social Minister in a press conference came out loudly that, you see, over three million people were employed! Only conveniently failed to clarify that only 2 million. Fifty thousand. people according to official statistics are people employed in the real sector, i.e. those who create added value, those who create gross domestic product. In other words, this was the first thing on which the government had to work in 2015, i.e. a serious administrative reform that would direct qualified workers into the labour market. Because it's very easy to say, "We want this, we want this" and at the same time no one to take into account that there are currently no highly qualified personnel in the labour market to create gross domestic product, added value and hence economic growth. The fastest thing can happen through administrative reform, because in this sector are the most qualified and qualified personnel. Nothing has been taken into account and practically nothing has been done to introduce and support this administrative reform in terms of what is called the power management. There we are still in the twilight sphere. We have very serious criticism in this regard, so it would be good to have all the ministers here. The finance minister can't be a magician when the other ministers are doing nothing at the same time. The Finance Minister distributes public resources, he must do everything possible to distribute it as well as possible and to seek efficiency from the point of view of the spending part. But how to look for efficiency, when, for example, the Ministry of Health has done all it can to thank here the majority of colleagues from the Committee on Health, because they know what kind of troubles we have had to go through, to fight the DPS who are crying today, you see, and silently sending signals: Return us back to the management, because the hoops of companies have started to break down. Yeah, but 500 million for 2015. There is no deficit of the National Health Insurance Fund! Nobody said that. So 500 million didn't go to the hoops of companies. Remember how much money the Bulgarian taxpayer paid in 2014, not to mention what he paid in 2013. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. If they hadn't sabotaged the Health Insurance Act, there wouldn't be that deficit in the health sector. So you can work, but that's not enough. It is not enough in just one ministry to push the pedal, to make all possible reforms, including the introduction of electronic systems, such as the biometric identifier. You and colleague Semir Abu Melih developed texts that created 2 million controlling Bulgarian patients through their personal code. But that's not enough. We need a serious plan from the Ministry of Economy, and we need a plan to attract investment. Moreover, a plan that will stimulate internal investment by our companies because in February 2014, pay attention to the lending of Bulgarian companies has dropped around zero! In other words, they themselves have no interest in making investments, opening new jobs. I cannot help but express my concern about the administrative increase in the social security burden. Is that social policy? Here, there must be a contradiction between the Minister of Finance and the Social Minister, because he, by administrative means through the budget of the Ministry of Finance, increased the insurance burden, and that means making about 1 billion. 300 million of the real economy. That is, when we need to stimulate domestic consumption, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy pulls 1 billion of the already gasping Bulgarian companies. Well, how do I do that? There's no synchronization. Moreover, the so-called increase of the minimum insurance threshold is conveniently overlooked. Here I will open the clamp with the tobacco producers. Dear Minister of Agriculture, when are you finally going to make an official and accurate inspection, because there are regions where there are a lot of tobacco producers registered, and there is not one leaf of tobacco growing?! I wonder how this thing happens that even subsidies get that and spare them to provide and pump the DEO's deficit?! Is it easier for single traders? Is self-insuring easier for them and they do not find the money on the way to be provided on a higher security threshold? Here we will make proposals between first and second readings, because this is not the way to pump the deficit, repeat, with tobacco producers. I can't help but notice... [[(Reply from President Tsetska Tsacheva:]] I'm done. ... that many people talk about education, but no one has taken any step in the last three years precisely to stimulate this sector and the motivation of Bulgarian teachers. This is the first time we've made these attempts and these steps. So it's nice when you talk on the budget, to talk to numbers, exactly and clearly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u64	Line!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u65	I'll give you the line. Your group has 1.19 minutes. Mr. Emil Dimitrov had given a statement. You have a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u66	It'll be enough for him, and by prolonging the
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u67	The time is extended.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u68	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Bayraktarov, who are you talking to right now? We MPs are fine. Here they are, five ministers only, two thirds of the ministers gone, the Deputy Prime Ministers gone, the Prime Minister gone. "Quod liquefying Iovi, non liquefying bovi" which is allowed on Jupiter is not allowed on oxen. Come on, a little more respect for this Prime Minister! After all, we are voting on the most important law on executive power and on the whole country. Only five ministers here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u69	There are deputy ministers!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u70	All ministers have deputy ministers admitted to the Chamber if they themselves cannot participate in the debate. Second line? I won't. The hole is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague Atanasov, thank you for the line, but this is exactly what I started with. In fact, I would say that hubris is harmful both in politics and in life. I've said that many times. From this point of view, if you are impressed, there is nothing else to worry about today but the submission of signals by the DPS:................................ The hoops from companies can no longer receive the portions. Thank you for something else, too, because you gave me an excuse to finish my speech in my most important part and this is the part related to the Bulgarian pensioners.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u72	You're supposed to do a doppelganger, not finish your speech. A hole in the line, not to finish your speech!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u73	I'm making a doppelganger. Please don't interrupt me! What was more important in your line is that in fact the Swiss rule regarding Bulgarian pensioners is used only when it is convenient. When we are in the process of deflation, we apply the Swiss rule, i.e. BGN 3 Ninety-four. increasing the minimum pension. At the same time, over 1 billion. 400 million. The funds for the so-called disability pensions continue to increase. Here, a colleague from the Reformation bloc called them fake trusts, I think he's right. Exactly fake pensions! In this direction, too, no work on the part of the social minister. No work! I'm not going to say that with the so-called pension reform, some 200 million are moving somewhere in the nothingness. I am not going to say that there is a complete failure in terms of the lies that will, if you see, increase people's pensions by 40%, and I am not going to say that the so-called lv. Where are they? I will remind the finance minister that I asked him a question myself in March and he pointed out that a part of this number is located in the accounts of the NRA. Another point is that I didn't see them move to the Silver Fund. And why are they still on some NRA accounts? There are many things that all the ministers should be here for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u74	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. The word for speech is Mr. Nikolay Alexandrov from Ataka.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members. I will focus more on the philosophy of the budget, as at first reading we have always considered and claimed this in this House that the philosophy of the budget itself is important. Whether the government attacks each other is their problem. I'll try to be shorter and more hit, Mr. Minister Goranov. I start with the first indicator - a real growth of 2.1% of gross domestic product for 2016. We find it hard not to say impossible for a number of reasons. Let's start internally: What happens in the country? What is the state of the economy? How are the economic processes going? What are the economic processes that we expect next year? Based on the fact that we are a small economy, as you said, of an open type, external shocks have very significant influences on the economy on a national scale. Therefore, in all of this situation, which we are seeing throughout the European Union and not only in the European Union, but also at a global level, we can assume that there will be significant adverse processes for the global economy next year. This year there were such significant indications on both financial markets and fossil markets, not to mention that next year another country is expected to enter the fossil fuel market. We don't know how it's gonna get in, we don't know how the prices are gonna be. The second feather. The budget is formed by consumption taxes. Here we have to ask the question: are we stimulating consumption? The VAT tax, which is the main revenue in the budget and forms the largest revenue to it, is formed precisely by consumption, but we are practically in deflation this year. We talked about this at the beginning of this year, we talked about it at the end of last year when we talked about the 2015 Project Budget. If we do not stimulate consumption, we cannot get out of the deflation itself. If we don't stimulate consumption, that means we... [[Noise.]] Understand colleagues, we will also stimulate revenue in the budget itself. From now on, it is precisely here that we need to ask the question whether there should be a change in policy and the tax policy of the state. Some colleagues have previously raised a topic that we from the party of Atakas have been raising for a long time, namely the progressive taxation of individuals and corporations as a whole. I mean, we're talking about changing the pattern. I'll start on the next feather. Why is it unattainable? When you enter into power and when you announce that you will not change taxes, you will not increase tax rates, you will not have any changes, you are making a signal to investors that from now on you expect a stable management with this stable management, in this way, to attract investors. But when at a wonderful time you start playing tides and tides and say: "We are going to introduce a new tax, we will not introduce a new tax and that is not a good signal for the investor. It is for this reason that we will not support Budget 2016 because you cannot implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u76	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Colleagues, the Reformation Bloc group has a statement from Mr. Martin Dimitrov and has 10 minutes and 18 seconds. From the Patriotic Front Mr. Emil Dimitrov stated a statement of 36 seconds, ABB.. 4 minutes 22 seconds. I suggest we listen to Mr. Ivan Slavov, and then we interrupt. We continue at 12:30 and then the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers! In the spirit of critical assessment of discussions Draft for Budget 2016 a few words about the place of municipalities in it. Inexplicable to us is the concentration of the increase in the annual budget in a small number of municipalities, while at the same time a significant number of municipalities, according to the National Association of Municipalities between 65 and 104, for the various transfers the funds are equal to those of Budget 2015. It is difficult to understand and unilaterally imposed changes in distribution mechanisms in municipalities, without prior coordination with the National Association and with municipalities in particular. This approach is a violation of art. 9, p. 6 of the European Charter on Local Self-government, which in its 20-year-old budgeting practice has been properly respected. In accordance with the opinion of the National Association of Municipalities, we are making several concrete proposals on the draft budget. Firstly, we expect an increase in funds for the municipal administration by 30 million. lv. Why? Because in the huge lag of the cost standard, the resource insurance and remuneration of the newly formed town halls over a thousand, as well as the mayor's deputies, more financial resources are needed. Second, we expect an increase in the amount of the matching subsidy by not less than 40 million. lv. Why? Because the 5 million increase proposed in the developed 2016 budget. lv. does not correspond to the overall increase in public sector funds. The total matching subsidy also represents a major source of own revenue for a number of municipalities, as well as co-financing of projects. Our insistence on increasing the overall matching subsidy is also to compensate for the increase in the minimum wage, as well as the drastic increase in excise duty on liquid fuels for heating. Third, we want an increase in the total target capital subsidy by 45 million. BGN, of which 25 for maintenance of roads from the municipal road network. The proposed increase aims to preserve the capacity of municipalities to finance investment and infrastructure projects, especially euro projects, as well as the financing of the most necessary preventive measures. Fourth, we want to increase by 50 million. lv. the amount of the emergency and unforeseen costs reserve to manage and address the consequences of disasters. According to the Interdepartmental Commission, the damage to municipal infrastructure amounts to already 500 million. lv. and the traditional amount of the resource allocated annually is extremely insufficient. I confirm that the ABB Group will support the budget because we believe in the constructive dialogue that will lead to its improvement in time between the two readings. Thank you. [[Applause from ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u78	Mr. Emil Dimitrov, 36 seconds to recess. Here you go. I'll give you two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll try to be as brief as possible. I'll read quickly, please excuse me. First of all, what were our demands? Defence, security, including domestic crime, education, fence, if possible to give money to closed-type detention centres, Bulgarians abroad. They were all fulfilled. What do we expect from the new budget? To be balanced, feasible, to have buffers in it, because it must reach for the normal functioning of the state. With the banks we expect a problem, we must be able to overcome it. The refugee crisis is a possible new war. A united anti-terrorist coalition that will lead to an increase in oil prices: for the budget, well, for the economy. Next year it will be this year's budget without KTB, but with many new challenges. How do you get out of a crisis? Four are the things that are written in the thick books. Printing money we can't afford. External funding The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front last year did not want to support the new debt, which means that we do not want it now, so we cannot fail to approve this budget which reduces external debt. The optimization of expenditures is very apologies, the coming days you will all speak in this area, and this is just the same thing: to redefine misery. One ten leva we move them from pocket to pocket and convince them that enough is enough for everything. And remains the fourth form, which is increasing the collection of cigarettes, fuels, alcohol, fiscal control, borders, improving administrative capacity and improving structures that work in this direction. The decision that the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front made at its meeting yesterday was to support at first reading the Budget with all the reservations that we have to express between the two readings and to debate in a constructive dialogue, mutual respect for the possible and the requested... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u80	That sentence is very good as a finish, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u81	...with the Budget and Finance Committee. Thank you. [[Applause from FPG to PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u82	Thank you, too. Replices to Mr. Dimitrov? I won't. Thirty-minute break. At 12:30, I ask that we not call on each other a few times. There's a vote coming up! There are speeches before that, but we're going to the finale of the debate. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u83	Colleagues, the meeting continues with Mr. Martin Dimitrov's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u84	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Firstly, I will start with the basic question: why do we support the budget? We support it because at the end of the term of office Oresharski Bulgaria was very close to the gulf of stopped European funds, drained bank, budget deficit, which according to Eurostat data reached 5.8%, which is a record for the decade before that. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB and DPS.]] Bulgaria was on the brink of the abyss.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u85	Martin, don't put the tape back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u86	What needs to be recognised by the current government is that after the Oresharski Bulgaria office was stabilized by a severe and quite risky situation. Colleagues, we avoided the scenario, and he threatened us directly. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB and DPS.]] After achieving stability, the next question is: how to achieve high economic growth? Because on the left, colleagues, we were called to see 2009. Colleagues on the left repeated several times and said: "Look, see 2009! " Well, when we see, what do we see? A deficit of 4.1% in 2009. But even if we don't look, we know, and if we didn't see it, we know that every management of BSP, each management of BSP, ends with a large deficit.. usually a crisis, and there is also a bankrupt bank. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Maybe more, but usually at least one. This is every management of BSP, so when you say: "See 2009!" we saw, but better not to look. And not only is it better not to watch, it's better not to have that happen to us anymore. How, though, can we achieve growth? Stability is important. Yes, it is a great success of the government, of the ruling majority. But the new big question is: how to achieve the growth of Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Slovakia, how to Bulgaria become a rapidly growing European economy? [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] To this end, it is very important that we keep the tax burden, we keep the flat tax, we keep the low taxes, it is very important. [[Noise and lines.]] However, colleagues, there is a mistake that we can correct, namely the measures proposed by the government and which are aimed at small and medium-sized businesses. Why should there be a tax on weekends when small businesses do not have weekends? They work both Saturdays and Sundays. Small business doesn't have a weekend, so there shouldn't be a weekend tax. Why reduce the cash payments so sharply from 15,000 to 5,000? lv.? There is no need to give unnecessary commissions to banks. This is again a small pebble that prevents the rapid development of the Bulgarian economy. Why introduce, fellow Members, a garden tax, from which the costs of the administration to write the letter, to send it, will be more expensive than the revenues in the budget? Why interfere with the development of small and medium-sized businesses? Yes, we respect what we have achieved, but now we say: it is better to have control over the producers of excise goods to put the appliances of cigarette manufacturers, the controls of the producers of alcohol than small businesses to be unduly harassed, there is no need for these things. Between first and second readings, we reformers have made our proposals and in conditions of dialogue with all political parties, especially the ruling majority, we will propose that these things be dropped. And if we want control, if we want to lighten the economy, to put measuring instruments on the excise producers, that's what the civilized world does. And finally, colleagues, the political issue. The people in the ruling majority with whom we work together, but say they will not support the budget, give a side to a party called the DPS and who wants this. They want the budget not to pass so they can demand a change in government and say that without them they could not. Not only can we do without the DPS, but we have to do without the DPS. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Therefore, colleagues, we must support this budget in order to show the whole of Bulgaria that it is not only possible and must and will be without DPS in this Parliament. The management will be without the DPS. This should be a clear thesis of the ruling majority. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] This thesis is particularly important when we vote on the budget. Colleagues, let's support and set the new main goal. After stability, the new main goal is high growth and it is fully feasible.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u87	Where did you see that high growth?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u88	This thesis is fully feasible if the favorable international environment is maintained and missteps against small and medium-sized businesses are not taken. Acceleration of growth is an entirely possible and most important goal for next year. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u89	Replices to Mr. Dimitrov? I won't. The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u90	Madam President, I would ask you, just as you were correct a little while ago, to limit your fellow Members who are once again exercising on the topic of DPS. I recall that at the beginning of this Parliament's publication, we did not request participation in power. I understand that some power synchronizers will be satisfied if 200 million instead of education go to a fence. Please do not exercise on this topic anymore!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u91	The word for speech is Mr. Turnovallisky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u92	Dear Madam President, ministers gentlemen, colleagues! In the short time, quick, somewhat quiet and shy with the State Budget Act, we are also offered an update of the 2015 budget. In 2014, you stated that the budget update was a failure of the fiscal policy of governance. In February of this year, Minister, from this House you said that while you are Minister, you will not allow an update. After one year of explaining to the Bulgarian citizens, to the public that every lev of most revenue will go to cover the deficit and debt, what do we have today? Bulgarian citizens have to pay 450 million for the carelessness of mayors, municipal officials and government authorities, who have not done their job with regard to the EU projects they have not cared about, have done endless procedures, and most of which Brussels will not return. Secondly, where will Bulgarian citizens have to pay nearly 400 million for the carelessness of ministers who did not make their reforms and who today do not even want to participate here to hear Are there any resignations?! I won't! This is what you have to explain to the Bulgarian citizens. With regard to Budget 2016 and the debt you plan to bear as a debt ceiling. The ceiling of the debt is well known here. The ceiling of the debt must cover the deficits and the upcoming payments on the external debt. That's 3.1 billion. What happens and what the other 2 billion is for. 200 million? Adding another billion and eight hundred capital expenditures to them is a wonderful blank check of four billion you want to spend. This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u93	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u94	Dear Madam President, ministers, honourable Members! From the Reformation Block we will support the 2016 draft budget, as we believe this is the only possible budget. I know there is a lot to talk about here politically, but let us remember what this ruling majority came up with and this government with the Gymnasium Stone KTB, with many other problems related to European funding. Of course, this one year it also made its mark on the only possible 2016 Budget Project. We also support the budget philosophy in terms of growth, which is planned, to be about 2.1%, and in terms of the budget deficit - 2%. I would personally ask us to assess the need to reduce the deficit in 2017 and 2018 at 1.4 and one percent. As you know, expenditure, i.e. the budget against gross domestic product of 39,4 in 2016 will fall to 38,2 in 2018, which is clearly a clear right-hand measure. I would like to pay particular attention to an increase in capital expenditure for municipalities, but I believe that this is insufficient and more resources can be found, as well as the growth in education by 128 million. Speaking of municipalities, it is natural and logical to say that we would hope to restart the financial decentralisation, to seal the interaction and discussions between the Ministry of Finance, the Government and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. We had a few meetings. They also participated in the meeting of our Commission and have their proposals. First, as regards the update of the state budget for 2015. Another 8,5 million is needed for the payment of benefits for unused leave to elected persons under the 2011 mandate. I very much hope that next year we will resolve the issue of the charge of municipal waste and the extremely difficult issue that lies before the Bulgarian municipalities. Our proposal is to extend the deadline by another year for collection in this way, but by 31 March to determine the new methodology so that the Bulgarian municipalities can be calm that there is already a much more objective way to collect this fee. I wouldn't want to miss the security sectors. We are in a particularly delicate international environment. From the Reformation Block, we would hope for better optimization of the security funds, as well as optimization of the funds for the NTAC. These around 35 million should be spent, in our view, on more general security and order activities in the country. In the end, I would like to say that the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has a few benefits, but there is also a minus for insufficient money for landslides and public works. On the other hand, there are resources available to provide common spatial plans, by the way, something you probably do not know.. only 11 Bulgarian municipalities have a common spatial plan. Indeed, this is a difficult problem for Bulgarian municipalities, investors in Bulgaria and citizens, so providing this resource is something extremely reasonable. The problematic sectors of the low-developed regions: North-Western region, Rhodopes, Strandzha need more funding. In the coming years, some 243 million are needed outside European funding, and the special look in this direction would be extremely important in our view. In the end, it is necessary, in parallel with the general planning plans, to implement a reform in relation to the Cadaster and the Property Register. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u95	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs willing to take part in the debate? I won't. The debate is closed. I invite the MPs to the House to vote. Colleagues, according to the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, two are the bills that will be put to the vote consistently. The difference between them is that the first included the Project of the Supreme Judicial Council and the second is with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2. I put to the first vote the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 with included the Draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2 which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 208 MPs: for 3, against 71, abstention 134. The offer is not accepted. I put to the first vote the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 with the opinion of the Council of Ministers, supported by the Committee on Budget and Finance. Vote 212 MPs: 138 against 65 abstentions 9. The budget has been adopted in the first vote. [[Applause from GERB, shouts "Bravo! "]] Here's your first negative vote, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u96	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted against this budget because it does not meet any of the serious challenges facing the Bulgarian economy. I voted for this budget against it, because with the 2016 budget report, you clearly show the failure of your policy. You have tried to push through an update of the 2015 budget and failed in the most advertised theme about financial stability and fiscal consolidation. You are offering us an increase in the deficit on a cash basis from 3 to 3.3%, and that is, given that you claim to be struggling with smuggling and collecting more revenue all year long. I'm asking, what's true? Yes, you collect more revenue, but it is normal, given that the revenue is programmed at 0.8% growth, and it is seen that growth is above 2%.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u97	Colleagues, the noise in this House is beyond acceptable in such a way that we can listen and hear the speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u98	You have also failed in the other proclaimed goal that you can carry out reforms. Even administrative reform, as we heard from Minister Vladislav Goranov, turned out not to have been carried out. You have also tainted your finance minister and failed to meet your spending standards and limits that you have set for yourself. Here, with the update for 2015 the resignations of these ministers, who exceeded these limits, as the prime minister promised. It has been seen that you cannot make reforms, in my opinion, and you do not want to make reforms. I voted against this budget because it also puts us in a dangerous debt spiral. We are witnessing the greatest rate of increase in foreign debt. Notice, do you think that these funds are intended to be spent in support of economic growth, in support of Bulgarian entrepreneurs and in support of exports? No, there is nothing like this in the 2016 budget. I voted against this budget because it has no main objective and no priorities. And where you've made priorities, you've reduced the proportion of expenses for them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u99	Second negative vote, Mr. Ermenkov. Colleagues, once again, I invite you to remain silent in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u100	Madam President, honourable Members, I voted against this budget, first because someone had to vote from the left against this budget, which is extremely right. Unfortunately, from the many claiming to be in the left space only the Bulgarian Socialist Party did so and proved who is standing on the left. The second thing I voted against is that this budget has legitimized what we have been talking about for three days now, when we are discussing the other laws relating to the budget, namely that it is aimed at antisocially, aimed only at protecting the rich, aimed only for this somehow to collect some money, if the last ones in the pocket of the Bulgarian, so that at the moment there is something to be spent to have an empty check of 4 billion to be distributed, a condon, in the bad sense of the word in the way that everyone knows. Thirdly, I voted against it, because I warn you that with this budget you have taken the first step on Greece's path. Tomorrow, when the people rise up and ask, "Who is to blame?" [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u101	Third negative vote, Mrs. Dora Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u102	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! I voted against this budget because I very carefully got acquainted with the disagreements between the Ministry of Finance and the Bulgarian municipalities, which in this bill was not changed. Because the request of the Bulgarian municipalities is for about 500 million more. Because the share of Bulgarian municipalities... [[GERB lines.]] Yes, you may be well to listen, because you have experienced the joy that you will now rule the Bulgarian municipalities and they will still have much to talk to you about these issues. The share of Bulgarian municipalities, honourable Members, compared to gross domestic product goes to five. With every budget he keeps going down. According to the fiscal programme it was 13, and it was a time when it was 19. That is to say, we, in relation to the total share of the public resource in which you have pronounced yourself today, the Bulgarian municipalities receive a much smaller share. Secondly, I believe that this bill deepens inter-regional differences and policies that relate to public infrastructure, both state and municipal. Dear colleagues, look into the budget and see what we decide in the landslides, in the field of disasters and accidents, what do we decide in the area of municipal roads? And this joy, which gushs from you, is a great responsibility which you assume for the regional differences in the Bulgarian state. With this budget, they will deepen more and more. That is why I voted against it with the awareness that it is not useful for the development of the infrastructure of Bulgaria, it is not useful for the Bulgarian municipalities as well. Thank you. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Dear Members of the Council of Ministers, thank you for participating in the discussion of the budget, as well as the Deputy Ministers who attended and were useful in the discussion. [[Members of the Council of Ministers shall leave the Chamber.]] Moving on to the next point of our weekly program: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR THE CHANGE OF THE TAXAL CODEX FOR LAST WEEK. We have reached § 16 on the Commission's report. I'm expecting a rapporteur. Colleagues, at the previous meeting on Friday, § 15 was reported by importer, which became § 16, in which is Section IIIa, Subsection I, a total of around 23-24 pages. We're done presenting the text, there's no debate on it. I am now asking a question... Are there any MPs who wish to take part with an opinion under § 16, it is done with this numbering in the Commission's report? Anyone? I won't. The debate is closed. On this paragraph, I first put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Dimitar Tanev, Nastimir Ananiev, Boyka Marinska, Nayden Zelenogorski, Anton Trenchev and Dimitar Shishkov, the Commission does not support the proposal. Vote 100 MPs: 8 against 28, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 16 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 80, none, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u104	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 16 and 17, which shall become paragraphs 17 and 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u105	We vote, fellow Members. They voted 104 MPs: 85, none, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u106	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 18 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u107	Statements? I won't. I shall put the Commission's proposal to the vote. They voted 93 MPs: 85, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u108	Paragraph 19. Proposal of MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov in § 19, art. 156, para. 5 a new sentence is added: Where the address of the territorial structure of the determining authority issuing the revision act does not fall within the area of the permanent or current address or the applicant's seat, the latter may also make the challenge before the administrative court in whose area its permanent or present address or its seat falls. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u109	Here's your speech, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u110	Madam President, honourable Members! This is a very interesting text which has caused a lot of debate in the Commission and also between the colleagues we have spoken with. It is aimed at improving people's access to justice and, secondly, at easing the judiciary itself from the enormous workload that the courts in five major cities have, which are currently dealing mainly with tax cases. The interesting thing I found out about this text of the Legal Committee was that once upon a time even MPs from GERB had proposed such a thing, but for some reason they withdrew it. I very much hope that the colleagues of GERB will now really think about and remember these proposals that their colleagues have made. By the way, there were also such colleagues from GERB who said they would support this proposal, although as a whole, as far as I understand it, the attitude is not to be supported. But what I'm about to tell you, I hope it affects you and we make the right decision, because this is a small step towards judicial reform, but I think it is also a right step in the right direction. As I said, it supports citizens and gives them access to justice at home and not to have to travel to distant settlements. On the other hand, it eases the judiciary and judges who have to look at 50-60 cases a month, and tax cases a month. To get an idea of what a tax case is, imagine this bank. [[shows the President's Bank]] That you see behind me, half piled up with fat tycoons who go normally to a tax case. There really is a huge piece of evidence that needs to be read. Obviously, the least to read, the physical possibility is insufficient within a month of a judge, however much he wants, however much he works on Saturdays and Sundays and evenings, to see it within a month 50 of such cases. The point of this proposal is not only in these five major cities, starting from Sofia, Varna, Burgas, Veliko Tarnovo and so on, to look at such tax cases, but in all 28 district centres where there are administrative courts, to also be able to look at such tax cases and not to concentrate in the five major cities. With regard to the jurisdiction of the judges, I think that we do not need to comment that they obviously, since in some cities the Administrative Court is competent to look at them, will be no less competent in other cities as well. One of the main arguments that Mrs. Stoyanova, by the way, pointed out and I share it as a concern about whether it will not come to some mixed practice or somewhere in the decisions of the individual administrative judges, I note to you that all these cases are subject to control by the Supreme Administrative Court. Whether given in Stara Zagora or Plovdiv or elsewhere, if the revenue body considers that the decision is incorrect, it may challenge it before the Supreme Administrative Court and therefore give a proper and final decision there. In other words, there will be supreme control of the legality of all these acts, and I think that shouldn't bother us. So many are the arguments, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we also held a meeting, including we heard the Vice-President of the Supreme Administrative Court and the President of the Administrative Court of Sofia-City, who spoke in the direction of this proposal and supported it and said that they really expect a 20% relief at least in Sofia, not to talk about Plovdiv and the other cities, which will in any case help the judges to really rule out some more quality judicial acts. I return to the fact that a judge, however good a desire to make a qualitative decision, if he does not have the physical opportunity to read all the material in the case, to get acquainted with all the evidence, to allow all the expertise or to hear all the persons and witnesses in the case, simply has no physical time for it, he has no way of giving a qualitative judgment. This distribution among other courts gives us the opportunity to do so. I'll stop here so I don't bore you. There's really a lot of arguments. It will end with the fact that there really was an attitude in itself that the proposal not to be rejected as bad but to think in the prospect of its introduction. I really don't see how we could better formulate the text now or in a year. I think he's precise enough, with one small remark, which I'm asking, Madam President, as an editorial proposal to reflect.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u111	There's no way I can reflect editorialally on an unsupported proposal. Editorial proposals are only allowed with regard to the Commission's proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u112	It was said that the address is not quite accurate, but it is about the head office of an authority. But this is a formality, which, of course, if the proposal is supported in the Chamber, I will also make an editorial one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u113	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Kirilov's speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u114	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I'll make a brief statement. In the Legal Committee we have repeatedly discussed the proposal that colleague Petar Slavov presented to your attention just now. Yes, we do, in principle, support it, but with the clear awareness that we cannot implement it at this time. The colleague Slavov told you about many of our attempts to actively participate in the analysis and in the preparation of the new judicial map in the Republic of Bulgaria. It is true that there is disproportion in the distribution of cases. However, as far as administrative justice is concerned, we cannot say that in this case this will lead to an improvement of the distribution of cases, physically and mechanically, there will probably be some correction, but to a substantial extent we will affect the caselaw already in place. This is a process that should not be carried out immediately and unplanned. Therefore, I propose to my colleagues who have proposed the specific editing, the following. The Administrative Procedure Code is to be discussed. On this occasion, we started initially discussing the conviction of tax acts. Let's take our time, let's not do this now! Let the courts, including administrative courts, have an accurate analysis of the effect of this distribution. I want to correct it a little bit, Mr. Slavov may replicate me, but it wasn't the same opinion of the court leaders in that sense. In my opinion, the President of the SAC did not categorically rule on this issue in the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u115	- What's the line? Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Kirilov, I was referring to a meeting that you may not have attended, which is why you may have such a gap. The meeting was in the form of Vice-President of the Supreme Administrative Court and Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court. It was outside last week's meeting within the Legal Commission. The meeting I am talking about was attended by Mrs. Stoyanova and Mrs. Yordanova from GERB and myself. We were given detailed reports on the number of cases, the expected improvement in workload and so on. The data is indisputable. I can provide them to you and see that it will really have a positive effect. As I said, it will also have a positive effect for every Bulgarian citizen who will be able from the locality where he lives to lodge a complaint if he wishes to appeal a tax measure and not have to travel to any of the neighbouring settlements. However, that is not the most important thing in this case, and that is not why I basically took my cue. I think we should listen to these arguments. I'll tell you one more thing. At this meeting, including the President of the Supreme Administrative Court, committed himself to a gesture to the revenue administration, to the revenue authorities and said he was ready on their proposal to exercise his power to seek interpretation decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court if they considered that there was a controversial practice that bothered them. They could turn directly to him and he could use his power from the procedural law and refer to the general meetings. It was something unprecedented for me and a sign of extreme goodwill, which I suppose can be appreciated. Once again, I note that all the acts that will be issued by the first administrative courts will, in this case, be subject to control before the Supreme Administrative Court, as at the moment, and will remain. More first instance administrative courts will be pronounced as first instance.. nothing more. If the tax authority considers that something is wrong, it can always appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court and close the case there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u117	Second line? Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u118	Thank you. Mr. Kirilov, you weren't at the meeting Mr. Slavov was talking about. I would therefore like to point out to you that what he has said is correct, but I also have one addition. After discussing the reasons why judges would like to change their conviction, we have actually made it clear that this is a very serious step concerning many organizational changes both in the judiciary, courts and in the National Revenue Agency. It is not correct between first and second reading with several texts, however precise, as said by colleague Slavov, to change all this. At the meeting we agreed with them after the adoption of the budget with the National Revenue Agency to make a working group to discuss all the details, pros and cons and what possible consequences for one and the other system would have the adoption of such a decision. It's only then to make a full offer, not now to do it in a piece.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u119	A hole, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the Parliament, Dear Mr. Slavov, Dear Mrs. Stoyanova! Indeed, I was not at this meeting, but I was at the analysis and discussion in the Legal Committee when we commented on the same text in the context of amending the Administrative Procedure Code. Then, at that stage, the Legal Commission rejected the text. On the occasion of the lines you made, I will also say the following. The proposal of colleague Slavov sounds very good and seems in favour of those who receive protection against incorrect tax-administrative acts. However, are we aware that we are creating another form of inequality in which the applicant can successfully manipulate the process, including to a large extent making it difficult to collect evidence? If I, as an applicant, have the option to choose the place of conviction, I will have the Sofia NRA defend itself in Silistra. Then the Sofia NRA will have to carry evidence and conduct the proof in the furthest vessel. Another question is whether this will be convenient for the court itself. Yes, once the first-station decision is passed, it will be appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court, but this is the last protection for the violated rights. It seems to me that we need to find the balance in this generally correct thinking, but we are not ready. Personally, for this reason and with regret to Mr. Slavov, but I will not support this proposal for the second time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u121	Any other MPs? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Petar Slavov and Mr. Martin Dimitrov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 87 MPs: 13 against 20, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. I put the Commission's proposal to vote in favour of the text of the importer for § 19. Vote 92 MPs: 86 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, before continuing with the report, Mr Ermenkov informed me that in the vote at first reading of the State Budget Bill for 2016, as you recall, he made a procedure for explaining a negative vote, but the revoting system was abstention. He claims to have voted against. Please note his voice against. [[Noise, excitement.]] We're listening, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u122	Paragraph 20. Proposal of the MPs Rumen Gechev and group: "Paragraph 20 to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Georgi Kovachev and Kancho Filipov: "Paragraph 20 " the proposed amendment of art. 161, para. 1 sentence third of the DOPC to fall. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u123	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u124	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! With this amendment in art. POPC's 161 is envisaged: instead of a lawyer's remuneration, legal remuneration is awarded to each instance in the amount of minimum remuneration for a lawyer. If the purpose of this change is to reduce the tax cases in which procedural representatives participate, I believe that this is not the order to burden business with those additional costs which must be awarded to each instance. After all, procedural representatives are civil servants and the same party involved in the process pays their remuneration. And at the moment, the Law has a certain rule in force that defines and awards legal remuneration to the participants by the Revenue Agency. So I suggest you support our proposal to drop this paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u125	Your people aren't here to support him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u126	Thank you. I also address your people, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u127	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. A line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. First, we vote on the proposal of the MPs Gechev and a group not supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 10, against 46, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Georgi Kovachev and Kancho Filipov, not supported by the Commission. They voted 85 MPs: 13 against 45, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. We are voting, honourable Members, the text of the importer for § 20, supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 84 against 6, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u128	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 169 the following additions are made: 1. The creation of para. 3a: Until they are declared for forced collection, the obligations for the respective species established by the municipalities shall be incurred in the order of their occurrence and, where applicable for the same year, the person shall have the right to state which one of them. 2. In para. 8 after the figure
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u129	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 21. Vote 89 MPs: 84, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u130	Paragraph 21. Proposal of the MPs Slavov and Dimitrov: seventh to be deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Gechev, Tarnovalyski, Nenov and Georgiev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Tanev and group: .................................................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 21, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 171, para. 2 is finally a comma and is added or the execution is suspended at the request of the debtor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u131	Statements? I won't. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Slavov and Dimitrov, identical to the proposal of the MPs Tanev and the group Vote 88 MPs: 12, Against 37, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer for § 21, which becomes § 22, in the version of the Commission report. Vote 88 MPs: 84, against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u132	Paragraph 22. Proposal of the MPs Slavov and Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Gechev and group. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Tanev and group. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 22 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u133	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission proposal § 22 to be rejected. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u134	Paragraphs 23 and 24 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u135	Statements? I won't. We are voting on paragraphs 23 and 24 by importer, supported by the Commission report. Vote 89 MPs: 84, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u136	Under paragraph 25, there is a proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kovachev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MPs Tanev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1, 2, 4 and 5 and does not support it by t. 3. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 182 the following amendments are made: 1. In the title, the word "Invitation" is replaced by "Acts." 2. Alinea One is canceled. 3. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: If the obligation is not paid within the statutory period before action is taken for its forced collection, the authority issuing the claim may, respectively,: 1. notify the debtor in writing, by telephone, by site visit, by e-mail of an e-mail address specified by him and/or by other appropriate means of the consequences and possible actions in the recovery of the claim in case he does not voluntarily fulfil the specified obligations; 2. if the obligation is greater than 5000 BGN. and no security in the amount of principal and interest has been provided, notify all authorities which, by virtue of regulations, issue licences or authorisations to carry out certain activities for which verification of public liabilities is required. 4. In para. 3 in the text before t. 1 the words the authority under para. 1s are replaced by the claim authority and comma. 5. Alinea 6 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Statements? I won't. Firstly, we are voting on the proposal by Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs in the part not supported by the Commission on this. 3. 90 MPs voted: for 6, against 20, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the version of § 25 on the Commission report. Vote 87 MPs: 85, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u138	Paragraphs 26 and 27 of the importing Commission shall support the importer's proposal for those paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u139	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission proposal for § 26 and § 27. Vote 84 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u140	Under paragraph 28, there is a proposal of the MPs Rumen Gechev and a group. The Commission supports it. Proposal of the MPs Georgi Kovachev and Kancho Filipov. The Commission supports it. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 28 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u141	Statements? I won't. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission § 28 to be rejected. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u142	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29 which shall become § 28. Mr President, I would like you to put to the vote an amendment in this text of the importer, namely the words of the relevant regional control service, to replace them with the words of the relevant Regional Directorate of Agriculture, as in the meantime the TID of the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural Equipment has been adopted, where the closure of the control-technical inspections and the passage of their activities in the relevant regional....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u143	Statements? I won't. I propose that we vote on Mrs. Menda Stoyanova's proposals for editorial amendment. Vote 89 MPs: 87, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on § 29, which becomes § 28, in the following text: 201, para. The first sentence is replaced by the corresponding Regional Directorate for Agriculture. Vote 82 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u144	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 202a: Electronic back-up on a bank account Art. 202a. (1) Electronic retention on the claim of the debtor on an account in a bank shall be imposed by a public contractor under the conditions and under the order of art. 450a of the Civil Procedure Code. (2) For the collection of public claims the state and municipalities shall be exempt from the payment of fees and other costs of access to the Single Environment for exchange of electronic supports under art. 450a of the Civil Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u145	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 29. Vote 84 MPs: 81 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u146	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30 and § 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u147	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission proposal for § 30 and § 31. 88 MPs voted: 84, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u148	According to § 32 the proposal of the MPs Slavov and Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 32 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u149	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal § 32 to be rejected. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u150	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 33 to 37 including, respectively, paragraphs 32 to 36 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u151	Statements? I won't. We are voting on this proposal, supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u152	According to § 38 the proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Slavov and Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1, and c. Two is withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1, and c. Two is withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 38, which shall become § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 235 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) the second sentence is amended as follows: a valuer entered in the register of the Chamber of Independent Evaluators in Bulgaria may be drawn to the assessment if necessary; (b) a third sentence shall be created: "When there is no expert in the register in the relevant area or he cannot or may not carry out the assessment, another person of the profession or area concerned may be attracted.' 2. In para. 2 after the word "supplied', the word "supplied' shall be added, which shall not be lower than the person designated by the person concerned. 3. They're creating an al. 4 and 5. In the case of a new sale in accordance with art. 250, para. 4 or art. 254, para. 10. (5) The final assessment shall not be subject to appeal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u153	Thank you. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u154	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Here I would like to motivate the failure to accept the second part of our proposal, namely the possibility of being able to appeal the final assessment, which is rejected by this paragraph. The reasons for withdrawing the right to defend the final assessment are unclear to me. [[Heckling]] I'm talking about the final assessment. The explanations we have received that this gave us the opportunity to chicify the process, I think they are unserious and I consider these motives to be unserious, so we have proposed that it be dismissed and so on. 3, which stands as t. 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u155	Do you make an editorial proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u156	No, no.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u157	Because you have a proposal that's accepted and a second point that's withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u158	Point 2 s to fall, which is accepted, etc. 3... we keep our offer. Point 3 becomes t. 2, which changes: "2." The creation of para. 4 and the content is removed from the contents of the item. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u159	Look, in your proposal you have supported a proposal and withdrawn one.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u160	That's right. We support...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u161	If you have an editorial proposal in the final version, do so. If you have an editorial note! The version of § 38 has just been read, which becomes § 37.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u162	That's right. I suggest a t. 2, which is withdrawn to the Commission, to be voted on. That's my offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u163	That's impossible, it's withdrawn. There's just no way.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u164	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u165	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Honourable Members, we are voting in the version of § 38, which becomes § 37, in the version of the Commission report. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Continue, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u166	Under art. 39 The proposal of the MP Tanev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Gechev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u167	Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u168	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 40, 41 and 42, which shall become paragraphs 38, 39, 40, 41 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u169	Statements? I can't see. We are voting first § 39 by importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes § 38. At the same time, we are voting for new paragraphs 39, 40 and 41 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 3. The proposal for the four paragraphs is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u170	According to § 42 "Proposition of the National Representative Gechev and a group of MPs: In § 43, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 3 to go. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43, which shall become § 42.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u171	Statements? I can't see. We are voting first by the MPs Rumen Gechev and Sie, which is not supported by the Commission. We are voting unsupported by the Commission for a proposal. 90 MPs voted: 19 against 46, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. [[Heckling]] Let's vote on the paragraph and I'll give you the floor. We are voting § 43, which becomes § 42 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 90 against 5, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. The way you're holding Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u172	Dear Mr. Chairman, without disturbing the peace-loving tone in this House, I note to you that we are not in the Chamber of Commerce to say: "Rumen Gechev and Sie. It is correct to say: Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, or to name them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u173	Thanks for the remark.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u174	The Commission shall support the text of those paragraphs, which shall respectively become paragraphs 43 to 46, from § 44 to § 47.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u175	Statements? I can't see. We are voting for paragraphs 43, 44, 45 and 46 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 93, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u176	Paragraph 48 "A proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the importer's text for paragraphs 48 to 50, which shall become paragraphs 47 to 49 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u177	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 47, 48 and 49 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u178	Paragraph 51? a proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 50.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u179	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 50 by importer, supported by the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u180	Paragraph 52 "Proposition of the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova." The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 52, which becomes § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: falco, falco, falco, falco, The assessment of the property shall also be communicated to the co-owner of the non-debtor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u181	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote, honourable Members, § 51 by importer, after the amendment of the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u182	Proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov: A new § 52a is being created: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is 1. A new sentence second is created: Where the address of the territorial structure of the determining authority which issued the contested act does not fall within the area of the permanent or current address or the applicant's seat, the latter may also make the challenge before the administrative court in whose area its permanent or present address or seat falls. 2. The previous sentence is the second sentence being the third sentence. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u183	Statements? I won't. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 96 MPs: 22, against 11, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u184	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 53, which shall become § 52.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u185	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. We are voting in favour of the Commission by the text of the importer for § 52. They voted 91 MPs: 84, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u186	Paragraph 54? a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, which the Commission supports. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 54, which shall become § 53.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u187	Can I just stop you?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u189	A very long paragraph follows. I'm gonna have to ask you to read it. Due to the passing of time, I will not put it to the vote, I am simply informing the MPs. He'll be voted tomorrow. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u190	ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. Paragraph 1a is inserted: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in 1. A Financial Institution is any Bulgarian financial institution which is not a non-reporting financial institution. 2. The Bulgarian Financial Institution is: (a) any financial institution resident for tax purposes of the Republic of Bulgaria, with the exception of any branch of such financial institution located outside the country; b) any branch of a financial institution which is not resident for tax purposes of the Republic of Bulgaria if this branch is located in the country. 3. "Financial institution" means a custody institution, a depositary institution, an investment entity or a designated insurance company. Financial institution is resident for tax purposes of a country if the financial institution is resident for tax purposes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u191	Mrs. Stoyanova, I'd like to interrupt. Before that, I would just like to read to my fellow Members the parliamentary control message tomorrow. I think this is right, then I will give you the opportunity to read this long text. Parliamentary Control Communication on 20 November 2015, Friday 11:00: Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev will answer one question from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovalyski. Tourism Minister Nikolina Angelkova will answer a question from the MP Georgi Turnovaliski. I'm interrupting the announcement of parliamentary control. Continue with reporting the text, and then there will be completion of the parliamentary control message. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u192	For the record, we'll start again at point three.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u193	Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u194	3. "Financial institution" means a custody institution, a depositary institution, an investment entity or a designated insurance company. A financial institution shall be resident for tax purposes of a State if the financial institution falls under the jurisdiction of that State and it has the right to impose on the financial institution an obligation to provide information. A trust that is a financial institution (whether or not a resident for tax purposes of a State) shall be deemed to fall under the jurisdiction of a State if one or more of the trustees are resident in that State, unless the trust provides all information under that code to another State as it is its resident for tax purposes. A financial institution (except a trust) which is not a resident for tax purposes (as it is fiscally transparent or falls under a jurisdiction which does not provide income tax) shall be deemed to fall under the jurisdiction of a State where: (a) has been established under the legislation of that State; (b) there is a place of government (including real government) in that country; or (c) shall be subject to financial supervision in that country. 4. A guarantee institution is any entity that holds as an essential part of its business financial assets for a foreign account. An entity shall hold financial assets on a foreign account as an essential part of its business if the gross income of the entity from the financial assets held and related financial services is equal to or exceeds 20 per cent of the entity's gross income during the shorter of the following two periods: (a) the three-year period ending on 31 December prior to the year in which the designation is made; (b) the period during which the entity existed. 5. A Depository Institution is any entity that accepts deposits within the framework of the normal conduct of banking or similar business. 6. The term "Cash Value" means the fair value of the assets held by the institution. (a) which carries out one or more of the following activities or operations on behalf of and at the expense of a client: (aa) trading of money market instruments (checks, billings, deposit certificates, etc.) and derivatives; foreign exchange trading, instruments representing exchange transactions and instruments related to interest rates and indices; trading in transferable securities or commodity futures; (bb) managing portfolios of individual clients or collective investment schemes or other collective investment undertakings; (c) another form of investment, administration or management of financial assets or money on behalf of other persons; (b) the gross income of which is primarily due to investment, reinvesting or trading in financial assets if the entity is managed by another entity which is a depositary institution, a custody institution, a designated insurance company or an investment entity described in point (a) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) the entity is managed by another entity which is a depositary institution, a custody institution, a custody institution, a designated insurance company or an investment entity or an investment entity described in point (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v (v (v) (v) (v) the entity (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) the entity an entity an entity an entity an entity an entity an entity an entity, an entity an entity an entity an entity, an entity, an An entity predominantly carries out as an economic activity one or more of the activities described in point (a) or the entity's gross income is attributable to investment, reinvesting or trading in financial assets for the purposes of point (b) if the gross income of the entity arising from the activities concerned is equal to or exceeds 50 percent of the entity's gross income during the shorter than the following two periods: the three-year period ending on 31 December of the year preceding the year in which the designation is made or the period during which the entity existed. The amount to be reported in this column shall be reported in column 060 of the CR SEC SA template. 48, letters................................................................... This point shall be interpreted in accordance with the line of reference of the definition of an institution of funds against money laundering (FATF) in the recommendations of the Group for Financial Action against Money laundering (FATF). 7. A financial asset shall include: (a) securities as a share or share in a company; partnership or real property in holdings of a wide range of persons or publicly traded partnerships or trusts; debt securities, secured or unsecured bonds or other evidence of the existence of debt; (b) a share in a partnership, goods, swaps including an interest rate swap, a foreign exchange swap, a base swap, an interest rate ceiling, an interest rate floor, a commodity swap, a share securities swap, a capital index swap and similar agreements; (c) an insurance contract or annuity contract; (d) any interests, including futures or forward contract or option, in securities, shares in an association, commodity or derivative on a commodity, swap, insurance contract or an annuity contract; (e) for the purposes of FATCA, the financial asset shall also include a financial instrument or contract for investment as a currency or commodity transaction, a credit default swap, a swap based on a non-financial index, a contract with a notional principal or other derivative instruments. The financial asset does not include direct ownership of immovable property not related to debt. 8. The amount to be reported shall be the amount to be reported in this column. 9. The financial institution of the jurisdiction concerned shall be: (a) a financial institution resident for tax purposes of a participating jurisdiction, with the exception of a branch of the financial institution located outside the participating jurisdiction; (b) a branch of a financial institution which is not resident for tax purposes of a participating jurisdiction located in a participating jurisdiction. 10. The financial institution of the partner jurisdiction shall be: (a) a financial institution resident for tax purposes of a partner jurisdiction, with the exception of a branch of the financial institution located outside the partner jurisdiction; (b) a branch of a financial institution which is not resident for tax purposes of a partner jurisdiction located in the partner jurisdiction. 11. "No Financial Institution" is a financial institution under art. 1, para. 1 letter from the FATCA agreement. 12. A Financial Institution is a Financial Institution that is not a Financial Institution that is not a Financial Institution that is not a Financial Institution that is not a Financial Institution that is: (a) a public entity, an international organisation or a central bank, except in the case of a payment arising from an obligation in connection with a commercial financial activity of the type carried out by a particular insurance company, a custody institution or a depositary institution; (b) a pension fund with a broad participation, a pension fund with a close participation, a public pension fund, an international organisation or a central bank, or a released credit card issuer; (c) any other low-risk entity to be used for tax evasion with characteristics similar to any of the entities described in points (a) and (b) and (b) and which is included in the list of non-reporting financial institutions referred to in art. 142d, para. 1 provided that the status of the entity as non-reporting information does not prevent a financial institution from achieving the objectives of this Code; (d) an exempted collective investment undertaking; (e) a trust to the extent that the trustee is providing information a financial institution which provides all information under the obligations under art. 142b as regards all accounts of the trust for which information is provided; (f) for the purposes of the FATCA Agreement, a Bulgarian financial institution or other entity resident in the Republic of Bulgaria as described in Annex II of the FATCA Agreement as non-reporting information a Bulgarian financial institution. 13. "State-owned entity" means the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, a Member State of the European Union, or any other jurisdiction, any administrative units and/or political units of the Republic of Bulgaria, a Member State or other jurisdiction (state, district, county or municipality) or any state agency or institution of the Republic of Bulgaria, a Member State or other jurisdiction. This concept includes the constituent parts of t. 14, the controlled entities under p. 15 and administrative units and/or political units of the Republic of Bulgaria, Member State or other jurisdiction. 14. "Construction of the Republic of Bulgaria, Member State or other jurisdiction" means any person, organisation, agency, office, fund, office or other body, regardless of the way it was established, which constitutes a public authority. The net revenue of the public authority must be credited to its own account or other accounts of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Member State or other jurisdiction, without any part of it being used for the benefit of private entities. The constituent part shall not include a person who is sovereign, official or head and who acts in a personal capacity. 15. The following conditions shall be met by an entity of the Republic of Bulgaria, a Member State or another jurisdiction which is an independent legal entity: (a) the entity is wholly owned and controlled by one or more state entities, directly or through one or more controlled entities; (b) the net income of the entity shall be credited to its own account or to the accounts of one or more state entities without any use being made of any part of it for the benefit of private entities; (c) in the event of termination, the assets of the entity shall be transferred to one or more state entities. Income shall not be considered to be used for the benefit of private entities if they are beneficiaries of a state programme and the activities of the programme shall be carried out in public benefit in order to create public goods or are linked to administration at a stage of management. Notwithstanding the above, it is assumed that income is used for the benefit of private entities if it arises from the use of a state entity to carry out a commercial activity, such as a commercial banking activity in which financial services are provided. 16. It shall also provide information on the implementation of this Regulation. This category includes any intergovernmental organisation, including a supranational organisation which consists primarily of governments, has an existing headquarters agreement in the Republic of Bulgaria or an agreement which is largely of a similar nature and whose income is not used for the benefit of private entities. 17. The Central Bank is an institution of the Republic of Bulgaria, a Member State or another jurisdiction which, under the law or a government act, is the main body issuing instruments intended to be in circulation in the form of a currency, including where it is independent of the government of the State of the entity, whether wholly or partly owned by the Republic of Bulgaria, a Member State or another jurisdiction. 18. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (a) there is no beneficiary who holds more than 5 per cent of the fund's assets; (b) subject to government regulation and providing information to the National Revenue Agency; and (c) meets one of the following conditions: (aa) the fund is exempt from taxation on investment income or the taxation of such income is deferred or carried out at a reduced rate in relation to the status of the fund as a pension scheme; (bb) The fund shall receive at least 50 percent of the total contributions from participating employers, with the exception of transfers of assets from other pension funds designated as such under that code or from pension accounts described under that code. 39 point (b) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (c) distributions or withdrawals of funds from the fund shall be permitted only if certain events relating to retirement, invalidity or death occur (except distributions by transfer to other pension funds designated as such under that code or pension accounts described under that code. 39, in the case of distributions or withdrawals of amounts prior to the occurrence of such specified events, a penalty shall be imposed; (dd) the contributions, other than permitted catch-up contributions, of employees in the fund shall be limited to the income received by the employee or may not exceed the annual equivalent of USD 50,000 by applying the rules of art. 142c for billing. 19. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (a) less than 50 persons shall be provided in the fund; (b) one or more employers who are not investment entities or passive non-financial entities participate in the fund; (c) the employee's and employer's contributions to the fund, other than the transfers of assets from pension accounts described under point (c) 39 point (d) is limited to the income and compensation received by the employee; (d) participants who are not locals of the Republic of Bulgaria shall not be entitled to more than 20 per cent of the fund's assets; (e) the fund is subject to government regulation and provides information to the National Revenue Agency. 20. A public entity's pension fund, an international organisation or a central bank shall be a fund established by a State entity, an international organisation or a central bank for the payment of retirement, invalidity or death benefits to beneficiaries or participants who are present or former employees or persons designated by them, or who are not present or former employees, if the benefits of such beneficiaries or participants are provided for personal services performed for the benefit of the State entity, international organisation or central bank. 21. A credit card issuer is a financial institution that meets the following conditions: (a) the financial institution shall be considered to be such only because it is a credit card issuer accepting payment above the amount of cash due on the card and this overpayment shall not be refunded to the customer without delay; (b) on 1 January 2016, the financial institution shall apply policies and procedures that prevent the customer from overpayment of USD 50 000 equivalent or ensure that any overpayment by a customer exceeding that amount is reimbursed to the customer within 60 days, in any case applying the rules of art. 142c for billing. For this purpose, the overpayment carried out by the customer does not concern the credit stocks for contested transactions, but includes credit stocks from returning goods. Where an international contract for the automatic exchange of financial information ratified by the Republic of Bulgaria, promulgated and entered into force, indicates a date other than that referred to in point (b) of this Article, the date under the international contract shall apply. 22. A collective investment undertaking is an investment entity regulated as a collective investment undertaking, provided that all participation in it is held by or through individuals or entities that are not persons for whom information is provided, with the exception of passive non-financial entities with controlling persons for whom information is provided. For the purposes of FATCA, the agreement exempted a collective investment undertaking shall be that eligible under that point, except where the participation is held by natural persons and/or non-participant financial institutions. 23. A financial account is an account held by a financial institution that includes a deposit account, a custody account and: (a) in the case of an investment entity, any capital or debt interest in the financial institution; regardless of the above term, the account shall not include a capital or debt interest in an entity that is an investment entity solely because: (aa) provide investment advice to or act on behalf of, or (bb) manage a portfolio of or act on behalf of a client for the purposes of investing, managing or administering financial assets invested in a client's name in a financial institution other than that entity; (b) in the case of a financial institution which is not referred to in point (c) any repurchased insurance contract and any annuity contract concluded or maintained by a financial institution other than non-investment-linked, non-transferable, immediately paid life insurance contract concluded with a person for the payment of retirement or invalidity benefits granted to an account that is excluded; (d) for the purposes of the FATCA agreement, in the case of a financial institution not referred to in point (a) (ii) of the first subparagraph, any capital or debt participation in the financial institution if: (aa) participation is not regularly traded on a securities trading venue; (bb) the value of the direct or indirect contribution is determined primarily on the basis of the assets giving rise to payments with a source in the United States of America on which a tax is levied; and (c) the class of participation shall be such as to avoid providing information in accordance with this Code. (e) the amount of the account is not included in accounts that are excluded under point (b) of Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 39. 24. A Deposit account shall include any payment, savings, fixed-term, commercial or deposit account, an account that is certified by a deposit certificate, a savings account certificate, an investment certificate, a debt certificate or any other similar instrument maintained by a financial institution in the course of the normal conduct of a banking business or similar business. The Deposit Account shall also include an amount held by an insurance company under a contract with a guaranteed investment or similar arrangement to pay or charge any relevant interest. 25. A trust account is an account other than an insurance contract or an asset contract under which one or more financial assets are held for the benefit of another person. 26. In the case of an association which is a financial institution, the capital or profits of the association shall be included in the capital or profits of the association. In the case of a trust which is a financial institution, it shall be assumed that the capital contribution is held by any person deemed to be the founder or beneficiary of the whole or part of the trust or by any other natural person exercising the final actual control of the trust. A person for whom information is provided shall be considered to be the beneficiary of the trust if such a person is entitled to receive a direct or indirect mandatory allocation or may receive a direct or indirect allocation by the trust at the discretion of the trustee. 27. An insurance contract is a contract with the exception of an insurance contract under which the issuer of the insurance policy agrees to pay compensation or a certain amount upon the occurrence of a specific event involving death, illness, accident, liability or property risk. 28. Annuities contract is a contract whereby the issuer agrees to make payments for a period determined in whole or in part from the life expectancy of one or more persons, including a contract deemed to be insured under the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria, a Member State or another jurisdiction. 29. The amount to be reported in this column shall be the amount to be reported in column 060 of the CR SEC SA template. For the purposes of FATCA, the ransom value agreement is greater than the left-hand equivalent of USD 50 000. 30. The amount to be reported shall be the amount to be reported in the balance sheet and shall be the amount to be reported in the balance sheet. However, the concept of "bought-in value' does not include an amount payable under an insurance contract: (a) solely on the basis of the death of a person insured under a life insurance contract; (b) as compensation for personal injury or sickness or other payment providing compensation for economic loss incurred as a result of the occurrence of the insurance event; (c) such as reimbursement of an earlier premium paid under an insurance contract, except for an investment-related life insurance contract or an annuity contract due to cancellation or termination of the contract, reduction of exposure to risk during the actual duration of the contract or resulting from an adjustment of a message or similar error in relation to the contract premium; (d) as a dividend for the insured, with the exception of a dividend upon termination, provided that the dividend is linked to an insurance contract under which the only benefits payable are those referred to in point (b). (e) such as reimbursement of a premium or premium deposit under an insurance contract for which the premium is payable at least annually if the amount of the advance premium or premium deposit does not exceed the next annual premium to be paid under the contract; (f) for the purposes of the FATCA agreement, the letters "s', "s', "s' and "s' shall not apply and the term "s' shall not include the share of the insured on the basis of the insurance result in relation to the contract or group concerned. 31. The current account is: (a) a financial account maintained by a financial institution providing information on 31 December 2015; where an international contract for the automatic exchange of financial information ratified by the Republic of Bulgaria, promulgated and entered into force, indicates a date other than 31 December 2015, shall apply the date under the international contract. (b) any financial account of an account holder irrespective of the date on which that financial account was opened if: (aa) the account holder shall hold in the providing information a financial institution or its associated entity in the country and a financial account that is an existing account within the meaning of point (a) (iii) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 of this Article. (bb) the providing information financial institution shall consider the financial accounts referred to in point (a) and any other financial account of the holder that are existing accounts within the meaning of point (b) and as a single financial account for the purposes of meeting the requirements for the standards of knowledge of the client under art. 142r, para. 1 and for the purposes of determining the availability or value of each of the financial accounts where availability thresholds apply to accounts; (c) in the case of a financial account to which the MIP procedures apply, the providing financial institution shall apply the MIP procedures for the account referred to in point (d) the opening of the financial account shall not require the provision of new, additional or amended information by the account holder except for the purposes of this Code; (c) for the purposes of the FATCA Agreement, the existing account shall be a financial account maintained by a financial institution providing information on 30 June 2014. 32. A Financial Account is a Financial Account maintained by a Financial Institution which is open on or after 1 January 2016, except where it is considered to be an existing account within the meaning of point (c). 31, point (b) (iii). For the purposes of implementing the FATCA Agreement, a new account is a financial account opened on or after 1 July 2014. Where an international contract for automatic exchange of financial information ratified by the Republic of Bulgaria, promulgated and entered into force, a date other than 1 January is indicated. 2016 shall apply the date under the international contract. 33. An existing account with one or more natural persons is an existing account of a natural person. 34. The account of a natural person is a new account with one or more natural persons. 35. An existing account of an entity is an existing account with one or more entities. 36. A small-value account is an existing account of a natural person with an aggregate stock or value as at 31 December 2015, which does not exceed the outstanding equivalent of USD 1 000 000. For the purposes of the FATCA Agreement, a small-value account is an existing account of a natural person with an aggregate stock or value on 30 June 2014, which does not exceed the remaining equivalent of USD 1 000 000. 37. A large-value account is an existing account of a natural person with an aggregate stock or value on 31 December 2015 or 31 December of each subsequent year that exceeds the remaining equivalent of USD 1 000 000. For the purposes of the FATCA Agreement, a large-value account is an existing account of a natural person with an aggregate stock or value on 30 June 2014, 31 December 2015 or 31 December of each subsequent year that exceeds the remaining equivalent of USD 1 000 000. 38. A new account with one or more entities is a new account of an entity. 39. An off-balance sheet is one of the following accounts: (a) a pension account fulfilling the following conditions: (aa) the account is subject to regulation as a personal pension account or is part of a registered or regulated pension scheme for the payment of retirement benefits, including invalidity or death benefits; (bb) the account shall be taxed on more favourable terms (the amount of the account that would be subject to taxation shall be deducted from, or released from, the gross income of the account holder or shall be taxed at a reduced rate or the income tax on investments in the account shall be deferred or carried out at a reduced rate); (c) information shall be provided to the National Revenue Agency for the account; (d) withdrawals shall be made provided that a certain retirement age has been reached or invalidity or death has occurred and penalties shall be imposed for withdrawals prior to such specified events; (e) annual contributions shall be limited to the left-hand equivalent of USD 50,000 or less or a maximum limit of the contributions to the account for the entire life to the left-hand equivalent of USD 1 000 000 or less, in any case applying the rules of art. 142c for the sum of accounts; it is not considered that the financial account does not meet the requirements of a sentence first only because such a financial account may receive assets or funds transferred from one or more financial accounts that meet the requirements of point 18.. 20; (b) an account meeting the following conditions: (aa) the account is subject to regulation as an investment instrument for purposes other than retirement and is traded regularly on a securities trading venue or is subject to regulation as a savings scheme for purposes other than retirement; (bb) the account shall be taxed on more favourable terms (the amount of the account that would be subject to taxation shall be deducted from, or exempt from, the gross income of the account holder or be taxed at a reduced rate or the income tax on investments in the account shall be deferred or carried out at a reduced rate); (c) withdrawals shall be made provided that they meet specific criteria relating to the purpose of the investment or savings account (providement of educational or medical benefits) and for withdrawals made before such criteria are met penalties shall be imposed; (dd) annual contributions shall be limited to the remaining equivalent of USD 50 000 or less by applying the rules of art. 142c for the sum of accounts; it is not considered that the financial account does not meet the requirements of a sentence first only because such a financial account may receive assets or funds transferred from one or more financial accounts that meet the requirements of points...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 18.. 20; (c) an insurance life contract that will expire before the insured person reaches 90 years of age if the contract meets the following conditions: (aa) periodic insurance premiums which do not decrease over time shall be paid at least once a year during the shorter than the following two periods: the period of operation of the contract or until the insured person reaches 90 years of age; (bb) no person has access to a contract value (by withdrawal, loan or otherwise) without requiring termination of the contract; (c) the amount (except in the case of death benefits) payable upon early termination or termination of the contract may not exceed the aggregate premiums paid under the contract after deduction of the sum of the death and/or sickness charges and costs (whether imposed in reality) for the period or periods of action of the contract and any amount paid prior to the early termination or prior to the termination of the contract; (d) a party to the contract is not an acquirer for remuneration; (d) an account held only as part of an estate if the documentation for such an account contains a copy of the will of the deceased or of the death certificate; (e) an account opened in connection with one of the following: (aa) a court order or judgment; (bb) sale, replacement or rental of movable or immovable property or rights if the account fulfils the following conditions: (aaa) the account is held solely with an advance (initially) payment, a claim, a deposit of an amount appropriate to secure an obligation arising directly from a transaction or similar payment, or is financed by a financial asset that is invested in the account in connection with the sale, exchange or rental of property or rights; (bbb) the account is opened and used solely to ensure that the buyer is obliged to pay the purchase price for property or rights, to pay the seller a conditional obligation or the landlord or tenant to pay compensation for damages relating to the rented property as provided for in a rental contract; (c) the assets of the account, including the income it receives, shall be paid or otherwise distributed to the buyer, seller, landlord or tenant (including the performance of an obligation of such person) upon sale, exchange or withdrawal of ownership or termination of the lease; (dd) the account is not a warranty account for margin transactions or similar account opened in connection with the sale or exchange of a financial asset; (edd) the account is not related to an account referred to in point (e); (c) an obligation of a real estate-backed financial institution to retain part of the payment only to facilitate payment at a later stage of property-related taxes or insurance; (d) the obligation of a financial institution only to facilitate the payment of taxes at a later stage; (f) a deposit account that meets the following conditions: (aa) the account exists solely because a customer makes a payment above the amount due under a credit card or a contract for a revolving credit and the overpaid amount is not refunded to the customer without delay; (bb) as at 1 January 2016, the financial institution shall apply policies and procedures that prevent the customer from overpayment of USD 50 000 equivalent or ensure that any overpayment by a customer exceeding that amount is reimbursed to the customer within 60 days, in any case applying the rules of art. 142c; for this purpose, the overpayment carried out by the customer does not refer to the credit stocks for controversial transactions, but includes credit stocks from the return of goods; (g) any other low-risk account to be used to avoid taxes with characteristics similar to any of the accounts described in points 142d, para. 1 provided that the status of such an account as an excluded account does not prevent the achievement of the objectives of this Code. 40. The account for which information is provided shall be a financial account maintained by a financial institution providing information with one or more persons for whom information is provided, or with a passive trust entity holding one or more controlling persons for whom information is provided, provided that it is identified as such under the due diligence procedures. 41. The person for whom information is provided shall be: 1. a person from a participating jurisdiction, with the exception of: (a) a company whose shares are traded regularly on one or more securities trading venues; (b) a company which is a related entity to a company referred to in point (a); (c) state-owned entity; (d) an international organisation; (e) central bank; (f) a financial institution. 2. for the purposes of the FATCA Agreement 1, para. Point 1 (a) (b) of the FATCA Agreement. 42. A person of the jurisdiction in question is a natural person or entity resident for tax purposes of one (or more) participating jurisdiction under its tax law, or an estate of a deceased person who has been resident for tax purposes of a participating jurisdiction; an association, a non-personalised limited liability company or similar legal arrangement (except a trust which is a passive non-resident entity) for which a resident person for tax purposes cannot be determined shall be considered to be established in the jurisdiction where he is a place of his actual management. 43. The participating court is: (a) any other Member State of the European Union; (b) any other jurisdiction with which the Republic of Bulgaria has an agreement in force which provides that the jurisdiction will provide the information referred to in art. 142b, which is set out in a list published by the Republic of Bulgaria and submitted to the European Commission; (c) any other jurisdiction with which the European Union has an agreement in force which provides that jurisdiction will provide the information referred to in art. 142b, which is set out in a list published by the European Commission; (d) The United States of America. 44. For the purposes of implementing the FATCA Agreement, a partner jurisdiction is a jurisdiction which has an agreement in force with the United States of America to facilitate the entry into force of the Act on the Compliance of Tax Law in relation to Out-of-the-Counter Accounts (the "FATCA") and which is set out in a list published by the Office for Internal Revenue of the United States of America. 45. suppliers are natural persons who exercise control over an entity. In the case of a trust, this term means the founder (s), the trustee (s), the keeper (s), the beneficiary (s) or the beneficiary class and any other natural person exercising final real control over the trust, and in the case of a legal arrangement other than a trust, that term means persons holding equivalent or similar positions. The term "Derivative Owner" shall be interpreted in accordance with the term "Active Owner" within the meaning of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering and the recommendations of the Financial Action Group against Money Laundering. 46. A non-financial institution is any entity that is not a financial institution. 47. "Passive........................................................................................................... is................................................................................................................................................. (a) an entity that is not a Reportable Person; (b) Investment entity within the meaning of point (b) 6 (b) which is not a financial institution of a participating jurisdiction. It's 48. The term "Cash Value" means the fair value of a financial asset that is measured at fair value through profit or loss at fair value through profit or loss at fair value through profit or loss at fair value through profit or loss at fair value through profit or loss at fair value through profit or loss at fair (a) less than 50 per cent of the gross income of the non-financial entity for the preceding calendar year is passive income and less than 50 per cent of the assets held by the non-financial entity in the previous calendar year are assets generated or held for the purpose of generating passive income; for the purpose of this provision, the passive income includes dividends: interest or other interest-equivalent income, rental income, copyright and licence remuneration, annuities, profits from disposal of financial assets, foreign exchange trade, net income from a swap and amounts received under an insurance contract with a ransom value; (b) the shares of the non-financial entity are traded regularly on a securities trading venue or associated entity with an entity whose shares are traded regularly on a securities trading venue; (c) the non-financial entity is a public entity, an international organisation, a central bank or an entity wholly owned by one or more of them; (d) the activities of or a significant part thereof consist of the holding (in whole or in part) of shares in circulation in or from the provision of services and financing to one or more subsidiaries engaged in transactions or businesses other than those of a financial institution, except where the entity operates (or is presented) as an investment fund (equity investment fund, venture investment fund, debt-indebted investment fund and other) or an investment instrument the purpose of which is to acquire or finance companies and to participate in such companies as capital asset for investment purposes; (e) the non-profit entity does not conduct business and has not developed one in the past, but invests in assets with the intention of carrying out a business other than that of a financial institution for a period of 24 months from the date of its initial establishment; (f) the non-financial entity has not operated as a financial institution in the last five years and has been in the process of liquidation or is reorganised in order to continue or resume business in an area other than that of a financial institution; (g) an entity that is not financial institutions and does not provide financing or hedging services to other entities with which an entity is not associated, provided that the group of related entities is primarily engaged in an economic activity other than that of a financial institution; (h) an entity that fulfils the following conditions: (aa) it has been established and operates exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, artistic, cultural, sporting or educational purposes, or is a professional organisation, union of entrepreneurs, Chamber of Commerce, Workers' Organisation, Agricultural or Garden Organization, Civil Association or Organisation whose main activity is to promote social well-being; (bb) it is exempt from income tax in the jurisdiction of which it is resident; (c) no participants or members having a material interest in its income or assets; (d) the constituent documents of the non-resident entity or the law of the jurisdiction in which it is resident for tax purposes do not allow the income or assets of the non-resident entity to be distributed or provided for the benefit of a private legal entity or entity which is not created for a benefit (except where the non-resident entity carries out its charitable activity or pays reasonable remuneration for services provided or for the purchase of property at market prices); (e) the constituent documents of the non-resident entity or the law of the jurisdiction in which it is resident require that, in the event of liquidation or termination of the non-resident entity, all its assets be distributed to the benefit of a public entity or other non-profit organisation or be inherited from the jurisdiction of which it is resident; (i) for the purposes of the FATCA Agreement, an entity established in territories of the United States of America under art. 1, para. For the purposes of point (b) of Section VI of Section VI, point (c) of Section VI, point (b) of the FATCA Agreement and of which all owners are resident persons for tax purposes in those territories, any tax-bearing foreign civil society company or tax-bearing foreign trust under the national law of the United States of America as well as a non-resident entity which is excluded from a foreign trust within the meaning of Section VI (B), point (b), point (c) of Section VI. 4 (i) of Annex I to the FATCA Agreement. 49. An account holder is a person who is entered or identified as the holder of a financial account by the financial institution that maintains the account. A person, with the exception of a financial institution holding a financial account for the benefit of or for the benefit of another person in the capacity of an agent, trustee, proxy, signatory, investment adviser or intermediary, shall not be considered as the account holder for the purposes of that code but shall be considered the other person. In the case of an insurance contract with a redemption value or an annuity contract, the account holder shall be any person entitled to receive the redemption value or to change the beneficiary of the contract. Where there is no person entitled to receive the redemption value or change of the beneficiary, the account holder shall be any person specified in the contract as owner and any person entitled to receive payment under the contract. In the event of the maturity of an insurance contract with a ransom value or of an annuity contract, any person entitled to receive a payment under the contract shall be considered to be the holder of the account. 50. The MIP procedures are procedures for complex customer verification by the providing financial institution to implement measures against money laundering and terrorist financing or other similar requirements that are applied by the providing financial institution. 51. "Education" is a legal person or arrangement, including a commercial company, association, trust or foundation. 52. One entity shall be an entity of another entity where: (a) one entity controls the other; (b) the two entities are under general control, or (c) the two entities are investment entities within the meaning of point (c). 6 points (b) and (c) are under general management, and such management shall fulfil the due diligence obligations of such investment entities. Control means direct or indirect ownership of more than 50 per cent of the votes and/or participation in the entity. 53. The tax number is a tax identification number or its functional equivalent in the absence of a tax number. For the purposes of the FATCA Agreement, the number of which is an identification number of an American federal taxpayer (including an employer's identification number, social security number or individual tax identification number). 54. The documents of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the (a) a certificate to a resident issued by an authorised public authority (government, state agency or municipality) of the jurisdiction in which the account holder is resident; (b) in respect of a natural person, any valid identification document issued by an authorised public authority (government, state agency or municipality), which contains the name of the person and is normally used to identify the person; (c) in respect of an entity, any official document issued by an authorised public authority (government, state agency or municipality) containing the name of the entity and the address of its central management in the jurisdiction of which that entity is resident for tax purposes, or in another jurisdiction in which it was established or established; (d) any audited financial statement, third party credit report, insolvency documents or document issued by a securities regulator; (e) in respect of an existing account of an entity, the providing information financial institution may use as documentary evidence and any classification of its registers with respect to the account holder that has been designated on the basis of a standardised classification of economic activities has been entered in accordance with its usual business practice for the purposes of the MIP procedures or for other regulatory purposes (except tax purposes) and which has been applied before the date used to classify the financial account as an existing account, provided that the reporting financial institution is not known or has no reason to know that such classification is incorrect or unreliable. 55. "Standarised classification of economic activities' means the National Classification of Economic Activities or other standardised classification used for classification of undertakings by type of business activity carried out for purposes other than tax purposes. 56. "Change in circumstances' is the receipt of additional information relating to or contrary to the status of a person which includes any change or addition of information: (a) to the account for the holder (including adding, replacing or other changing the account holder); (b) to each related account, when applying the rules for the aggregation of accounts under art. 142c if such change or addition of information affects the status of the account holder. 57. The account maintained by a financial institution shall be as follows: (a) in the case of a custody account by the financial institution that is a trustee of the assets of the account (including a financial institution that holds assets in the name of an intermediary/broker for an account holder in such an institution); (b) in the case of a deposit account by the financial institution that is required to make payments to the account (excluding an agent of a financial institution, whether or not that agent is a financial institution); (c) in the case of an equity or debt interest in a financial institution that constitutes a financial account.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (d) in the case of an insurance contract with a ransom value or a bond contract by the financial institution which is required to make payments under the contract. 58. The address of the central management of the entity is the place where its actual management is located and excludes an address used solely for correspondence purposes, unless it is the only address of the entity indicated as its registered address in its establishment documents. 59. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount to be reported in column 060 of this row. (a) provide insurance cover to natural persons connected by employer, trade association, trade union or other association or group; (b) require premium payment for each member of the group (or sub-group within the group) which is determined without taking into account individual health characteristics other than age, gender and smoking habits of the group member (s) (or sub-group within the group). 60. "Group contract' is a contract under which: (a) beneficiaries are natural persons connected by employer, trade association, trade union or other association or group; and (b) In exchange for the payment of an agreed premium, a life-or-death account shall be provided, whether payable immediately or after a specified period in which the premiums due under the contract are paid. 2. In § 2b, the words as well as the words of the Council shall be deleted, the latter shall finally be a comma and the words shall be added to Council Directive 2014/107/EU of 9 December 2014 amending Directive 2011/16/EU as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-19.u195	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Communications of parliamentary control on 20 November 2015, Friday 11:00: Deputy Prime Minister for European Affairs and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev will answer one question from the MP Georgi Bojinov. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovalyski. The Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will answer a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev and a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova. The Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov will answer seven questions from the MPs: Slavi Binev The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev will answer three questions from the MPs Dimitar Delchev, Stanislav Stanilov and Ivan Stankov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova of seven questions from the MPs Manol Genov The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Yavor Haytov and a question with a written answer from the National Representative Petar Slavov; "The Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov for questions with a written answer of the MP Svetla Bachvarova; The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev answered a question with a written answer from the MP Petar Slavov. Due to the lack of parliamentary control at the meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin, Economy Minister Bozidar Lukarski and Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will not participate. Due to illness the Minister of Culture Vecdi Rashidov will not participate in the Parliamentary Control meeting. Due to a prior commitment to the Parliamentary Control meeting, Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva, Minister of Health Petar Moskov and Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will not participate. A total of 13 questions, a single question, a total of 14 questions for tomorrow's parliamentary day. We need parliamentary time 2.12 hours. Tomorrow, a regular meeting of the Forty-third National Assembly.. Friday, November 20, 9 p.m. I'm shutting down today's plenary day. [[PHONE RINGING]]
