ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear Members of the National Assembly, before continuing with our weekly programme, the second reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, for reasons that the acts provided for this week in the Programme will not be able to be considered and given the necessary bills and decisions to be voted on by the end of this session, I propose that the National Assembly adopt ? RESPONSIBILITY? On the basis of art. 45, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for holding an extraordinary plenary session on 24 November 2015, Tuesday, 11:00 to 17.00 p.m. with the following TODAY'S RADIO 1. Projects for decisions to complete the compositions of permanent and temporary committees. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forestry Equipment. Importer of the Council of Ministers. I expect us to start our second reading today, but I don't think we're gonna make it to the end. 3. First vote on the Draft Law amending the Road Transport Act. Importers s Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs. 4. Second vote on the Bill of Accounting. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 5. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the provision of logistical support for Mig 29 aircraft. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 6. Project for a decision on the adoption of the Defence Capacity Development Programme of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020 and on the determination of the number of the Armed Forces. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Please vote. They voted 150 MPs: 117 against 13, 20 abstentions. The motion is accepted. SECOND READING OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LOANS AND EXECUTIVE PROCEEDING CODEX On yesterday, § 53 was reported. This is § 54 by importer. The debate on these texts is open. Are there any Members of Parliament willing to take a stand? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 53 in the version and numbering of the Commission. Please vote. They voted 136 MPs: 126, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u2	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Under § 55, there is a proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 55, which shall become § 54: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The proceedings under art. 235 and 236 and Chapter Twenty-Six are completed in the current order.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u3	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 54 on the Commission report, together with the name of the division. Voted 118 MPs: 114, no objection, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u4	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 56 to 64, which shall become paragraphs 55 to 63 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u5	We vote on all the paragraphs. They voted 111 MPs: 96, against 1, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u6	Under § 65, there is a proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 65 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u7	Statements? I won't. I shall put the Commission's proposal to the vote. 110 MPs voted: 102, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u8	Under § 66, the Commission supports the text of the importer which becomes § 64.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u9	We vote. They voted 114 MPs: 104, against 3, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u10	Under § 67, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 67, which shall become § 65: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Bankruptcy Act of art. 85, para. 3 words.............................................................................. 249, para. 2 and 3 and 3 shall be replaced by the following: 249, para. 2-6 "...........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u11	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 65 on the Commission report. They voted 121 MPs: 102, against 2, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u12	Paragraph 68 "Proposition of the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova." The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 68, which shall become § 66: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The law on credit institutions (prom., SG...) makes the following additions: 1. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 56a: Art. 56a. (1) The Bulgarian National Bank shall establish and maintain an electronic information system for the numbers of bank accounts, their holders and authorised persons to dispose of the accounts, as well as for the persons renting safe deposit boxes in banks. (2) Banks shall provide the BNB with the information under para. 1 monthly. (3) Access to information from the system shall have: 1. the bodies of the judiciary (courts, prosecutors and investigative bodies); 2. The Directorate General of National Police and the Directorate General of Organized Crime and the Ministry of the Interior; 3. State Agency "National Security" 4. The National Revenue Agency; 5. the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property; (4) Natural and legal persons may receive on request information from BNB about the information contained in the system. (5) Access to the system of bodies and institutions under para. 3 shall be carried out in respect of the performance of their duties in the case of specific checks, data for which they are registered in a special register of each of the authorities and institutions. (6) The right of access to the system shall have the persons managing and representing the bodies and institutions under para. 3 or officials authorised by them, subject to an obligation to protect the secret of the information received. The authorities and institutions under para. 3 adopt and apply internal rules for effective control of authorised persons with the right to access the information under para. 1. (7) For access to the system bodies and institutions under para. 3 and the persons under para. 4 pay a fee determined by BNB with the regulation under para. 8 on the basis of expenditure incurred. (8) The extent, order and time limits of the submission of information by banks in the system, as well as for the receipt of information from the system by the relevant authorised institutions and persons, shall be determined by a BNB regulation. (9) The information under para. 1 shall be kept within 5 years from the date of its entry into BNB. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62, para. 11 is finally a comma and is added as well as the information under art. 142b, para. 1 of the Tax-Securities Procedure Code
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u13	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 66 in the version and numbering of the Commission. Vote 112 MPs: 100 against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u14	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 69, which shall become § 67. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 70, which shall become § 68.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u15	We are voting on paragraphs 67 and 68 on the report. 110 MPs voted: 108, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u16	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new paragraphs 69 and 70. sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Value Added Tax (promise, SG No. ...) in art. 131, para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / ...... 70......................................................................... In the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 58, para. 1, t. 3 words.............................................................................. 182, para. 2, p. 2 (b) or (c) under art. 221, para. 6, p. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 182, para. 2, p. 2 or under art. 221, para. The following points are inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u17	Statements? I won't. We vote paragraphs 69 and 70. Vote 113 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u18	Paragraph 71? a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 71: seventy-seventy-seventy-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-six. The law shall enter into force from 1 January 2016, with the exception of § 66. 1 on the electronic information system which shall enter into force from 1 January 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u19	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 71 of the Commission report. They voted 116 MPs: 106, against 2, abstention 8. The proposal is adopted, and thus at second reading and the Law amending and supplementing the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. Next item of our weekly program: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE No 15 ANNEX FOR THE CHANGE OF THE CONVENTION FOR THE PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS AND MAINTENANCES, RECORDED ON 5 NOVEMBER 2013 IN SCAREDBURG. Reports from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights and the Committee on Foreign Policy. We'll start with the Legal Committee. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u20	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of Protocol No 15 amending the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, signed in Strasbourg on 5 November 2013, No 502-02-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2015. and a meeting held on 28 October 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of Protocol No 15 amending the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, signed on 5 November 2013 in Strasbourg, No 502-02-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2015. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Rumen Alexandrov, Deputy Minister, and Mrs. Maria Spasova, Director of Human Rights Directorate. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Alexandrov. The ratification of Protocol No 15 amending the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms aims to alleviate the working methods and activities of the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR). The changes envisaged relate to the conditions for lodging complaints and the time limit for lodging a complaint with the ECHR is changed from six months to four from the date of the last instance. The Law introduces the maximum age of candidates for judges in the ECHR, requiring candidates for the post to be up to 65 years of age and drawing out the principles of discretion in the interpretation and application of the Convention by the States Parties to it and the subsidiarity of the system in respect of the protection of human rights at national level. In the discussion took part the MPs Chetin Kazak and Danail Kirilov, who expressed their support for the bill. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 11 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and 1 vote, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Law on the ratification of Protocol No 15 amending the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, signed in Strasbourg on 5 November 2013, No 502-02-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Following is a report from the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Here you are, Mrs. Alexieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u22	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of Protocol No 15 amending the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, signed in Strasbourg on 5 November 2013, No 502-02-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2015. At a regular meeting held on 29 October 2015, the Commission on Religions and Human Rights examined and discussed the Draft Law on ratification of Protocol No 15 amending the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, signed in Strasbourg on 5 November 2013, No 502-02-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2015. The meeting was attended by Ms. Maria Spasova, Director of Human Rights Directorate at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. She presented the Bill and explained that, due to the increase in the number of complaints and pending cases in the European Court of Human Rights, action is needed to streamline the working methods and the work of the Court of Justice. The main provisions of Protocol No 15 are the following: - The wording of the Convention includes an explicit reference to the principle of subsidiarity, as well as the doctrine of freedom of expression. In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the right to authentic interpretation and application of the Convention belongs to the States Parties thereto. The Convention system is subsidiary with regard to the protection of human rights at national level. The role of the European Court of Human Rights is to examine whether the decisions of the national authorities are compatible with the Convention, taking into account the discretion available to those authorities. In Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the following definitions shall apply: 21 of the Convention "Conditions for taking up the post' are introduced at the age of the candidates for judges "they must be less than 65 years old at the time of presentation by the State of the national list with three candidates of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which makes the choice. - It's changing art. 30 of the Convention "Deservation in favour of the Grand Chamber" with a view to simplifying the desecration procedure in favour of the Grand Chamber of the Court of Justice. The judicial authorities will be obliged to desiccate themselves from any case in favor of the Grand Chamber. - It's changing art. 35 "Acceptance conditions: time limit for submission of complaints'. The deadline for lodging a complaint before the European Court of Human Rights shall be reduced from six months to four months from the date of the final national instance. Following the debates held, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law on the ratification of Protocol No 15 amending the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, signed on 5 November 2013 in Strasbourg, No 502-02-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Alexieva. Following is the report of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u24	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of Protocol No 15 amending the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, signed in Strasbourg on 5 November 2013, No 502-02-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2015. At a regular meeting held on 28 October 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers. The reasons for the bill were presented by Mr. Rumen Alexandrov "Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs." Guaranteeing the long-term effectiveness of the control system of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is a priority issue for the Council of Europe and the Member States. The process relates to actions to streamline the working methods and activities of the European Court of Human Rights due to the increase in the number of complaints and pending cases in the Court of Justice. The problem provoked four high-level conferences organised by the Swiss, Turkish, British and Belgian Presidency of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers, respectively, which adopted political declarations. In addition to confirming the commitment of the States Parties to the Convention to continue the reforms with the declarations, the Committee of Ministers was tasked to develop concrete measures in this direction. The text of Protocol No 15 was finally approved by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on 16 May 2013. Protocol No 15 was opened for signature in Strasbourg on 24 June 2013. It will enter into force on the first day of the month following the expiry of a period of three months after the date on which all Contracting Parties have expressed their consent to be bound by it. The Republic of Bulgaria signed Protocol No 15 on 5 November 2013. As of 5 August 2015, Protocol No 15 was signed by 22 and ratified by 19 countries. The provisions of Protocol No 15 are in accordance with the Constitution, the Bulgarian legislation, the international obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria and with the law of the European Union and do not require measures of a legislative nature with a view to their implementation. Under its international legal commitments as a Party to the Convention, the Republic of Bulgaria should ratify Protocol No 15. After hearing the reasons for the bill, a discussion and a vote was held, as a result of which, with 12 votes for the National Assembly, without the opposition and 1 vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposed to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 6 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to adopt the draft Law on ratification of Protocol No 15 amending the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, signed on 5 November 2013 in Strasbourg.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. My fellow Members, I am opening the debates on the ratification bill for the amendment of the Convention. First speech by Mr. Angelov of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u26	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The Patriotic Front Group will vote abstention on this ratification due to the following fact. We believe that this does not support human rights, but is violated because the deadline for an appeal of six months in the Strasbourg Court is reduced to four months. In other words, fewer people who feel that they have been unjustly convicted in their own countries will be able to seek justice in Strasbourg. One of the motives of this thing is that there were many cases. It is surprising to us how a Europe that claims how liberal it is, how it protects human rights and so on, is actually beginning to constantly restrict human rights, because this period is already being reduced once again. This isn't the first time. That is why we believe that it is not right for citizens who are damaged by the judicial systems, not only in Bulgaria, but also elsewhere, to seek justice, and also in Strasbourg. I will give you an example of how many Bulgarians in Macedonia who were unjustly convicted failed to complain in Strasbourg because the deadline was insufficient before to obtain all the documentation, to find lawyers and to prepare for such a case. We therefore call on the National Assembly not to support this ratification so that, indeed, if Europe speaks of human rights, they are respected and not restricted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u27	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. - What's the line? There aren't any. Any other speeches? Welcome to the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov, BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will express a position similar to that of my colleague from the Patriotic Front, and I will make a note regarding the functioning of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Since I have had the opportunity to attend several times in the procedure for the election of judges to the Court of Human Rights, I would like to raise an issue which concerns national parliaments in Europe. It is about the following that, in the selection procedure of judges, almost never or minimally, cases where the Council of Europe has complied with the wishes of the national parliaments concerned and with the wishes of the national states concerned. Committees that work on their own logic, with their own criteria and often in the Court of Human Rights, will be broadcast, I will say "maybe over 80% of the cases in which I have witnessed are elected judges who have not been proposed by national representative institutions such as parliaments. The issue of the functioning of the European institutions and of the place of national parliaments in this process is becoming increasingly sharp because the crisis we are witnessing in the European Union is also a function of the institutional chaos that has been created. Judges elected in the Court of Human Rights often work and judge in cases against the national states concerned, led by other motives and considerations. I don't want to comment on them from this tribune. I believe that reducing the deadline is only one of the elements in making the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg into an institution which is increasingly part of the anonymous European bureaucracy, without political connection to the societies and countries broadcasting them, the bureaucracy that puts on a daily basis in Europe these difficult issues which we are trying to deal with today.........................................................................in which we are trying at the same time............................................................................................................................................... I believe that there is a breach of impartiality in addition to the procedure and the deadline; I believe that the balance between national and European interests is distorted; I believe that national parliaments and national states have no control over the election of judges in the Court of Human Rights. So I see no reason to support this amendment. It is high time for national parliaments to express a position, because without such a position, the speed of functioning of European bureaucracy will increase, which at certain times is becoming dangerous for the national countries concerned. Balance is broken, impartiality is broken, which suffers law and law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u29	Thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Mestan, come in. For the second Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Zablyanov! I deeply do not share the philosophy contained in your speech. You, I don't know if you are doing this on behalf of the entire Parliamentary Group of Coalition for Bulgaria, have defined the Strasbourg Court as a function of some bureaucracy. The Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg has been set up to implement the most important act of the European Convention on Human Rights, and it is unacceptable in the Bulgarian Parliament that the work of this body is presented as bureaucratic arbitrariness, which, if you see, if this Convention is supported by the Bulgarian Parliament and other national parliaments, will be extended as the scope of Strasbourg's bureaucratic arbitrariness over national states. I do not wish to enter into the history of this act, but if there are national states which are the subject of judgment by the Strasbourg Court and if Bulgaria is in one of the first places, unfortunately, on conviction, then the reason is not in bureaucracy, as you express yourself, but in that we have not yet covered the standards contained in the European Convention on Human Rights. Rather, we need to think about the fundamental principle - a restriction of rights not just to be imposed by law - but to be necessary in a democratic civil society. And it is precisely because of the non-covering of this criterion that Europe imposes sanctions on national states, even when the restrictions are imposed by law, that even in their constitutions. The problem lies with us, not with the Convention, and we will strongly support ratification! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u31	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. Mr. Daniel Kirilov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Zablyanov! I absolutely cannot join your findings and, as one of the three members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, this Commission, which directly monitors the activities of the International Court of Human Rights, including the procedures for the election of judges, I would like to say that I object to the suggestions you are trying to make, and I am sure that your representative, one of the three representatives, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov, will support my words and my views in this direction. Among other things, in this case, it is not at all a procedure for the election of judges but, in so far as a judge is commenting in this Court, it is a matter of pension rights of retired persons, of retired judges in that Court. I fully agree with the understanding that this Court should respect the European values that have created the European Union. With regard to the so-called national judges, the protection of national interests in the specific disputes, I will recall a case in which our national judge, very close to the left, gave such a judgment regarding the restitutional disputes in Bulgaria, which practically legitimizes the state to fight and assert its rights in disputes over restitutions, in which the Bulgarian state was forced to donate state property. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u33	And thank you for the line. Third line, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u34	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Zablyanov, I hope that you do not see the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg as some kind of European administration, as some kind of European bureaucracy. It's a court of law! It's a court of law! It's a jurisdiction! This jurisdiction is part of the system of the European Convention on Human Rights, the institutional system of the European Convention on Human Rights, which must ensure respect for human rights as defined in this Convention. There judges at the European Court of Human Rights are not called to defend the national interests of the countries that broadcast them. They are called upon to protect the spirit and text of the European Convention on Human Rights. The last concern of PACE and the Council of Europe should be whether the candidates represented by the countries concerned enjoy the political support of national parliaments. That's the last of the worries! The main concern of the committee, which must select and select representatives of each Member State in the Court of Justice, must be its knowledge, competence and, above all, its commitment to abstract itself from the State which broadcasts it and to ensure impartial compliance with the Convention on Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u35	Thank you. Here's your coat, dear Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mestan, when MPs from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms of the Tribune come out, I do not care what decision your parliamentary group has previously made.................................is reflecting the opinion of the group or the individual of the MP. In the National Assembly there are no groups coming out, but there are MPs coming out, and this should be best known by you and this corresponds... [[Reply of the National Representative Lutvi Mestan.]] Please, Mr. Mestan, don't call from the spot, please. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u37	Mr. Zablyanov, do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u38	Thank you very much, but then you don't perform your duties, Mr. Chairman. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u39	Can I have some peace and quiet in the room, please? Go on, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u40	A few questions about the nature of the Court of Human Rights. Each institution, regardless of how we perceive it and how it is created, is created on certain principles. It changes over time. The Christian church was founded two thousand years ago, but then it had nothing to do with what we now have as an organization and as a cult, of course. This applies to all institutions, including the Court of Human Rights, which is not a church which can be criticised and which can be returned to the original values for which it was created. The inconsistent application of human rights principles has led to today's situation in Europe. The electoral application of human rights principles has led to today's situation in Europe. The rights are one and have become detrimental to others. Lack of duty has become the opposite of order. When we discuss and try to find a solution to Europe's problems, including terrorism, including what is happening on the streets of Paris, we need to be aware that the European institutions are responsible. But they cannot bear their responsibility when they do not reflect the opinions of the nations that created Europe. There are no political hermaphrodites in the European Court of Human Rights. If anyone believes such judges are elected there, he is not aware of the procedure. I want to give specific examples. When judges were elected, proposed, i.e. on behalf of the national middle countries...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u41	Please navigate towards completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u42	...of Serbia, of Slovakia and of Georgia, not only was the opinion of national parliaments, governments, academic communities in these countries not taken into account, but unsuitable judges were elected politically. And that should be said unsuitable, Mr. Kazak, from a professional point of view.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u43	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u44	Last one.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u45	I'll take your word for it, Mr. Zablyanov, really.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u46	Have a good weekend, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u47	Thank you, and thank you. Any other speeches? Mr. Stoilov asked for a statement, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Typically, such topics pass without great attention in the National Assembly. The fact that speeches were made is a good signal because the issues are important for what is the interaction between Bulgarian justice and European justice in the field of human rights with regard to the work of the Court of Justice in Strasbourg, which applies the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. The content of this Protocol itself is much more limited than the whole topic that is being debated here, and I would like to draw attention, first of all, to what we are about to vote on. This Protocol provides for several changes. One of them concerns the limit age at which the candidates are to be proposed. In view of the length of the term of office of the Judges, I think it is appropriate that the requirement that the candidates proposed by the States be no more than 65 years. Notice, for the Bulgarian magistrates there is a requirement for them to retire at 65 years old. I am not discussing now whether this is the best age age, whether it is not even low for magistrates of the highest level, but 65 years is the maximum age at which a member of the Strasbourg Court may start a term of office. The other change is in the competences between the individual configurations and the so-called Grand Chamber. This change enables some of the cases to be transferred directly to this House in order to align the caselaw of the Court of Justice. In cases where the Chambers of Justice intend to deviate from the common practice, it is proposed that the case be transferred directly to this Grand Chamber. It can be compared to the role of the Supreme Court Plenum, which can accept interpretive decrees. So the goal is that when precedents are essentially set, this should be discussed in the broader composition and at the highest level of the formation. The other issue which concerns citizens, on which there may indeed be different opinions, is: is it justified to shorten the period from six months to four months for preparing and submitting a complaint to the Strasbourg Court? In recent years, the number of cases has really increased immensely. There is a preliminary assessment mechanism for their eligibility, but nevertheless these cases make the Court's work difficult and there is some balance between the number of cases and access to justice. For citizens, six months is a better time, without question, because it requires professional preparation of the complaint to be made to the Strasbourg Court, but at the same time these cases are dealt with even more slowly in most cases than national justice is being carried out and in order to achieve faster results, and perhaps indirectly, the hidden objective is to reduce the number of incoming cases, this period is proposed to be four months. If this were a national law, we would be in a much lighter situation so that the MPs could vote selectively on each of these issues, but in this case, because it is about ratification of a protocol, they need to be approved together. In this sense, I do not see great obstacles to supporting the Protocol. If we have to discuss the issues of European justice and the Bulgarian court, it is much more legitimate here to note that Bulgaria has already been condemned several times, including for decisions of Bulgarian judicial groups in cases which were quite noisy in the previous years and for which Bulgaria should now pay significant money. The questions also need to be raised about the regression responsibility, but these are already questions of the Bulgarian state how to react to the people and institutions that caused Bulgaria to be condemned and paid in many cases tens of thousands of euros on these decisions. These are the real questions. We can also analyse, but not from the parliamentary tribune, the consistency of the practice in cases where the European Court of Justice has decided what the positions of the Bulgarian representative in this Court were. Whether this practice is consistent, whether it is not influenced by the political situation in the country is serious issues and I think that they should not be overlooked. However, I believe that today's discussion on the ratification of Protocol No 15 cannot run out of all these important issues. I thank all the MPs, regardless of the different positions that took part in the discussion, because it puts at least one of these issues, which should be the attention of the Bulgarian Parliament. The last thing I think is that it is already a matter of balance between the institutions of the Council of Europe in recent years is a tendency to make the Strasbourg Court an institution of the institutions, and the Council of Europe is an intergovernmental organisation which includes the Committee of Ministers, the Parliamentary Assembly and the Court of Justice. We must maintain the balance of these three bodies because the Committee of Ministers, unlike some of the European Union's decisions, acts as an intergovernmental organisation. There are various conventions that some of the parties have supported and others have not. In the case of the European Court of Justice, in recent years, there has been an attempt to rule against countries, even under conventions which they have not joined, something which we cannot accept as admissible. In other words, there is an expansion of the Court of Justice under the flag of human rights, which intervenes too intensively in this perimeter, which is left as a judgment of the states. Unlike European Union law, which has direct and direct effect, for other reasons, the jurisdiction of the Council of Europe is not a supranational one. These are also important questions for the Court to act within its own jurisdiction. I think that these issues should be taken into account by the national representation not only in the light of the legislation on ratification, but because in the coming months we will probably have reasons to return to these important topics that affect the Bulgarian citizens and the activities of the Bulgarian state institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u49	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. - What's the line? I won't. Professor. Stanilov the Parliamentary Group of the Party "Attack". You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm just going out to say a few words about a term that my colleague Jablyanov planted. For us, for our political platform, this court is unjust because it is unlawful your convention... [[National Representative Lutvi Mestan applauds.]] Please, Mr. Mestan, there's a civilization gap between you and me, isn't there?! No need to applaud me!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u51	Don't enter, please, in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u52	I want to tell you that it is unlawful in the sense of logic. Each case represents a binary opposition. Having a Convention on Human Rights, we must also have a Convention on Human responsibilities. The responsibilities must also be a case which is the subject of this Court. For this reason, from a moral point of view, Europe represents a wreck. Why? Because political correctness lies at the heart of the actions of this Court, and in two thirds of the cases political correctness is at the heart of its decisions, and this is unfair, wrong and unsubordinated to the Roman law that lies at the heart of European law. It's full of lawyers here, and I'm going to say, where is there such a thing as a Court of Human Rights in Roman law?! That's bullshit. There's no need for this, the whole system is messed up, because when we have rights, we have to have responsibilities and obligations. Otherwise, this does not work. It represents a demagogy and has therefore become a bureaucratic structure that sits in the hands of political correctness and begins to judge or not to judge. When the shackles of political correctness fall at the hands of the European peoples, then the issue that we now have with migrants and the residual actions of this wicked system will be resolved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u53	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Anyone else?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u54	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u55	You're right. Here you go, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Professor. Stanilov, it became clear that there is indeed a civilisational gap between us, because this assessment of one of the most important institutions in Europe makes us not just political but civilisationally different. However, my applause was not in agreement with your thesis. It was an ironic expression of the total coincidence of your positions with those of a BSP colleague to whom you referred. That's what you should read in my applause. And too bad, too bad about that chasm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u57	Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. My fellow Members, I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting for a Draft Law on the ratification of Protocol No 15 amending the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, signed in Strasbourg on 5 November 2013, No 502-02-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2015. They voted 135 MPs: 106, against 4, abstention 25. The proposal has been adopted, with which the current Bill has been adopted. Procedure Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure I propose that we proceed to a second vote on this ratification bill. As the previous speakers have rightly noted, the Protocol contains three concrete proposals on which we cannot make separate proposals. Eventually, we could be making text proposals under Article one of the only ratifications, but none of the speakers put forward a proposal in this direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u59	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. A counteroffer? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal made to examine the bill at second reading. Vote 138 MPs: 111 against 6, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kirilov, report the bill at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u60	Mr. Chairman, MPs! THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of Protocol No 15 amending the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, signed in Strasbourg on 5 November 2013 Sole Article: Ratified Protocol No 15 amending the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, signed in Strasbourg on 5 November 2013.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u61	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Honourable Members, we are voting at second reading on the Law on the ratification of Protocol No 15 amending the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, signed on 5 November 2013 in Strasbourg, single article. Please vote. They voted 133 MPs: 112, against 4, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR REGISTERATION AND CONTROL OF THE EARTH AND THE GORGEEN TECHNOLOGY. Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 22 July 2015 Please, Mr. Hristov, present the report for second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 46 for admission to the Chamber of Mr. Georgi Stoyanov, Secretary General of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Mr. Nikolay Marinov, Director General of the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u63	Thank you. Colleagues, we are voting on a procedure for admission to the hall of the listed persons. Please vote! Vote 89 MPs: 82 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please, Quaestors, provide access to the premises of the listed persons. Mr. Hristov, please report!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Report on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forestry Equipment, No 502-01-61, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 July 2015, adopted on the first vote on 7 October 2015. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. I suggest you put it to a vote in plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u65	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the Law proposed by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 72 against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u66	Proposal of the MP Tsveta Karayancheva, Zhivko Martinov and Rumen Zhelev: A new § 1 is being created. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1. ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 the words "and the wood equipment and the acquisition of the capacity to work with it' shall be replaced by the "forest machinery', including vehicles and land works machinery, as well as the acquisition and withdrawal of the power to work with the "technical equipment'.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u67	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote, honourable Members, the Commission's proposal for a new § 1. Please vote. Vote 84 MPs: 75, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u68	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs: ..created § The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2. ..................................................... Article 2 is amended as Art. 2. The law aims to ensure the use of safe agricultural, forestry equipment, including vehicles and land works machinery when operating and when travelling on roads.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u69	Statements? I won't. We vote § 2. Vote 87 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u70	Under § 1, there is a proposal of the MP Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 1 the words "technics, forestry equipment" shall be replaced by "forest machinery," including vehicles.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u71	Statements? I won't. We vote § 3. They voted 86 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u72	Under § 2 there are proposals made by the MP Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 2 which becomes § 4: ............................................ Article 5 is amended as follows: Art. 5. The Minister for Agriculture and Food is: 1. a competent type-approval authority and a market surveillance authority within the meaning of Article 1. 5 paragraph 1 of Regulation (EU) No are replaced by the following: 2. an internal combustion engine type-approval authority for non-road engines; 3. body of national type-approval and market control according to the ordinance under art. 9b; 4. a body for issuing and withdrawing a licence to work with a technique; 5. a testing and assessment body for compliance with national and international technical safety requirements.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u73	Statements? I won't. What offer do you have, Mr. Christov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u74	Proposal for amendment of § 4 concerning art. 5 t. 4 after the words "the withdrawal of "sour' is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u75	Any other speeches? The text will be: "4." Authority for the issue and withdrawal of a licence for the use of equipment. Legality shall be revoked by means of a witness. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the editorial supplement in § 4, art. 5, t. 4: "Receipt of the certificate for "supplied." The Appendix is the certificate of....................................................................................................... We vote, fellow Members. Vote 96 MPs: 94 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We vote all § 4. Vote 85 MPs: 77, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u76	According to § 3 there is a proposal made by the MP Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. Article 6 is amended as follows: Art. 6. The districts are the authorities of: 1. registration of the technique; 2. control of the technical condition and safety of the equipment placed on the market and/or in use and the acquisition of the capacity to operate the equipment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u77	Statements? I won't. We vote. They voted 83 MPs: 77, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u78	Proposal of the MP Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... A new article shall Art. 7. (1) The Ministry of Agriculture and Food shall establish and maintain an information database for the registration, reporting and control of the equipment and the persons who have acquired competence to work with it. (2) The data under para. 1 shall be entered by the
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u79	Statements? I won't. We vote § 6 to create a new art. 7. 86 MPs voted: 76, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u80	According to § 4 the proposal of the MP Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 7: .................................................... Article 9 is amended as Art. 9. (1) Only a technique which meets the requirements for type-approval shall be placed on the market pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 9b and 9c. (2) The requirements for type-approval shall apply to new/new: 1. wheeled tractors; 2. chain tractors; 3. trailers; 4. shiftable coupling technique; 5. systems, components and separate technical units for the technique under point 5. 1 - 4; 6. internal combustion engines for non-road machinery with regard to pollutant emissions. (3) The technique of para. 2, p. 1 s 4 which is a vehicle shall be divided into categories according to art. 4 of Regulation (EU) No is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u81	Statements? I won't. We vote § 7. Vote 87 MPs: 78, no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u82	Proposal of the MP Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to set up new paragraphs 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12: ................................................................................... Article 9a is amended as follows: Art. 9a. (1) For the issue of an EU type-approval certificate for the equipment under art. 9, para. 2, p. 1 to 5 the manufacturer or his representative shall submit a separate application to the Minister for Agriculture and Food by selecting one of the procedures under art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The application shall be accompanied by: 1. a declaration for entry in the Commercial Register with an indication of a single identification code for traders and branches of foreign traders entered under the Commercial Register Act and, where the manufacturer is not registered in the Republic of Bulgaria, a document for registration issued by a competent authority of the country of registration; 2. where the applicant is a representative, a notary certified copy of the document by which he is authorised by the manufacturer; 3. the documents referred to in art. 22 and 23 of Regulation (EU) No 167/2013; 4. a document for a paid State fee for issuing an EU type-approval certificate; 5. a declaration by the applicant that no documents for the approval of the same type of equipment have been submitted to a competent authority of another Member State of the European Union or to another Member State of the European Economic Area. (2) Upon application for EU type-approval, a technical file shall be drawn up pursuant to art. 24, paragraph 10 of Regulation (EU) No are replaced by the following: (3) The manufacturer or his representative shall provide samples of the technique under art. 9, para. 2, p. 1-4, components and separate technical units representative of the type to be approved which are necessary for carrying out the tests and checks in accordance with art. 27 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 167/2013. (4) Within one month of the date of submission of the application under para. 1 The Minister of Agriculture and Food shall issue or refuse an EU type-approval certificate. (5) When deficiencies or incompletes are identified in the documents under para. 1, the Minister of Agriculture and Food shall inform the applicant in writing with the relevant instructions for their removal. The term under para. 4 stops running until the deficiencies or incompletes in the documents are resolved. (6) The Minister of Agriculture and Food shall issue an EU type-approval certificate when the conformity of production rules have been complied with, pursuant to art. 28 of Regulation (EU) No 167/2013 and the type of technique: 1. correspond to the data specified in the technical documentation; 2. meet the applicable requirements of art. 17, 18 and 19 of Regulation (EU) No 167/2013. (7) The Minister of Agriculture and Food shall refuse to issue an EU type-approval certificate subject to the requirements of art. 24 paragraphs 1 and 3 of Regulation (EU) No are replaced by the following: (8) The requirements for EU type-approval of an entire vehicle shall not apply to vehicles under art. 38 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 167/2013. (9) For the issue of an EU type-approval certificate, the applicant shall pay the Ministry of Agriculture and Food a fee under art. 17, para. 1. A copy of the certificate shall be kept by the Minister for Agriculture and Food. (10) The technique of art. 9, para. 2, p. 1 to 5 shall be placed on the market when meeting the requirements for EU type-approval pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 167/2013. (11) The Minister of Agriculture and Food shall authorise technical services pursuant to Chapter 16a of Regulation (EU) No 167/2013. (12) The Minister of Agriculture and Food shall determine by regulation the order for type-approval of the equipment under art. 9, para. 2, p. 1-5. § 9. Article 9b is amended as follows: Art. 9b. The Minister of Agriculture and Food shall lay down, by regulation, the conditions and procedures for carrying out national type-approval for trailers, interchangeable coupling equipment, systems, components and separate technical units for them and for issuing a certificate for national type-approval. § 10. Article 9c is amended as follows: Art. 9c. (1) The Minister of Agriculture and Food shall lay down, by regulation, the conditions and arrangements for type-approval of internal combustion engines for non-road machinery with regard to the emissions of pollutants and the issue of a type-approval certificate. § 11. Article 9d is repealed. § 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9e the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinei 1 and 2 are amended as follows: supplied, registered or entry into service of vehicles shall be carried out in accordance with: 1. Article 38 (1) of Regulation (EU) No is replaced by the following: 2. Article 39 of Regulation (EU) No is replaced by the following: (2) The making available on the market or the entry into service of components and separate technical units shall be carried out according to art. 40 of Regulation (EU) No is replaced by the following: 2. In para. 3 the word "Signature" is replaced by "valid." 3. They're creating an al. 5 and 6: The placing on the market and entry into service of parts or equipment which may pose a serious risk to the proper functioning of basic systems shall be carried out in accordance with art. 45 and 46 of Regulation (EU) No 167/2013. (6) The making available on the market and the entry into service of trailers, interchangeable coupling equipment and systems, components and separate technical units for them subject to national approval shall be carried out under the order of the ordinance under art. 9b.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u83	Statements? I won't. We vote § 8. Vote 92 MPs: 83 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, one procedure. Offering you the agenda for Tuesday's extraordinary meeting, which reproduces the items on the agenda for this week, to which we will not reach, I have neglected to read: the second vote on the Bill implementing the Convention on Munitions and the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Storage, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on their destruction. I suggest that this be the next point after the bill that is currently under way. If we can finish it today, this will be point two for our program on Tuesday. Please vote. Vote 94 MPs: 77 against 6, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote paragraphs 9, 10, 11 and 12. They voted 91 MPs: 85, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u84	Paragraph 5? a proposal from the MP Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The safety of the equipment used shall be certified following testing and assessment of compliance with the safety requirements of the equipment by testing and certification centres of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. 2. In para. 4 after the word "Payments" is added to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the words "the tariff approved by the Council of Ministers" shall be replaced by "the tariff" under art. 17, para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's and 1's.'
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u85	Statements? I won't. We vote § 13. 84 MPs voted: 76, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u86	Proposal of the MP Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10a t. 4 is amended as "4." use a technique that meets the technical performance requirements according to the ordinance under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Paragraph 6? a proposal of the MP Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10b, para. 2 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Paragraph 7? a proposal of the MP Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10c, para. 2 after the word "Payment" is added to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the words "the Tariff" as defined by the Council of Ministers are replaced by the tariff under art. 17, para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's and 1's.'
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u87	Statements under paragraphs 14, 15 and 16? I won't. Anblock, we vote on the three paragraphs on the report. They voted 83 MPs: 78, against 4, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u88	The proposal of the MP Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words "Agriculture and forestry" the words "Agriculture and forestry" shall be added and the words "Administrative control inspection" (CTI RS) shall be replaced by "Administrative Directorate". 2. In para. 2 all over the words of the RS of the CTIs shall be replaced by the Regional Directorate of Agriculture and Agriculture, the word shall be replaced by the Director and the words shall be replaced by the information database referred to in Article. 7, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 3. In para. The second sentence of the second sentence shall be replaced by a valid certificate of conformity with the approved type, a valid certificate of conformity with the national type approved or a declaration of conformity. 4. In para. 4. (a) in the text before t. 1 the words of the RS of the CTIs shall be replaced by the Regional Directorate of Agriculture and Agriculture; (b) c. 1 the words of the RS of the KITs shall be replaced by the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture and Agriculture; (c) point 3 is repealed; (d) c. 4 the word "technics' is replaced by "self-propelled machinery', and after the words "supplied', the words "suppliers' are added; (e) c. 5 the words "copies of the document" shall be replaced by "copies of the document" and "copies of the document" shall be replaced by "copies of the document"; (f) c. 6 the words "up-to-date certificate of entry in the trade register or single identification code..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (g) point 8 is amended as follows: It's 8 o'clock. a valid certificate of conformity with the EU type-approval according to art. 38 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 167/2013 or a valid certificate of compliance with a national type approved under the ordinance under art. 9b; (h) c. 9 the word "sold' is replaced by "valid'; (i) create t. 10: ..10. Certificate under art. 10 to comply with the safety requirements of the machinery used. 5. In para. 5, t. 4 the words of the documents or the documents shall be deleted. 6. In para. 7 the words of the RS of the KTIs shall be replaced by the Regional Directorate According to § 9 there is a proposal of the MP Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 the words "in order' shall be replaced by "in terms and in order'; 2. In para. 3 words with agricultural or forestry machinery shall be replaced by a technique which shall be replaced by the words of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, or by a person authorised by the Minister of Agriculture and Food, the words of which shall be replaced by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and shall be added after the word of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. 3. In para. 4. (a) c. 4 at the end of the year, the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (b) c. 5 words "Agriculture and forestry" are deleted. There is a proposal of the MP Tsveta Karayancheva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 19: "Seriously, I'm The name of Chapter 5 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u89	Colleagues, are there any statements on paragraphs 17, 18 and 19? I won't. We vote enblock three paragraphs. Vote 81 MPs: 73, against 3, abstention 5. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u90	According to § 10 there is a proposal of the MP Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. Article 15 is amended as follows: Art. 15. (1) The Director of the relevant Regional Directorate of.................................................................................................................................................................................. 1. Registration of the technique under art. 11; 2. the competence of persons working with the technique; 3. the technical condition and safety of the equipment; 4. the impact of the technique on the environment; 5. compliance with the regulatory requirements for the implementation of the training activity for the acquisition of competence for the operation of equipment; 6. the presence of a valid EU type-approval certificate of trade name or mark applied and type and/or mark or type-approval number; 7. the presence of a valid certificate of conformity with a national type approved, applied trade name or mark and type and/or mark or national type-approval number. (2) The Minister of Agriculture and Food or officials authorised by it shall supervise the market pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 167/2013 for: 1. the presence of an EU type-approval certificate; 2. mandatory markings and type-approval marks affixed to vehicles, systems, components or separate technical units in accordance with Article 34 of Regulation (EU) No 3. the name of a manufacturer, registered trade name or registered trade mark and address in a Member State of the European Union, on the vehicles, components or separate technical units made available on the market; if it is not possible to place them on the component or separate technical unit on the packaging or in a document accompanying them; 4. the conformity of vehicles, systems, components and separate technical units with EU type-approval; 5. the changes to the EU type-approval and the existence of an updated EU type-approval certificate, as well as the coverage of changes to the EU type-approval certificate; 6. the actions taken by economic operators under Chapter 2 7. the parts and equipment which may pose a serious risk to the proper functioning of basic systems. (3) The Minister of Agriculture and Food or officials authorised by him shall exercise market control according to the ordinance under art. 9b for: 1. the existence of a certificate of national type-approval; 2. the conformity of the technique with the national type approved; 3. the changes to the national type approved and the existence of a certificate of amendment to the national type approved, as well as the coverage of changes to the certificate of conformity with the national type approved. (4) The Minister of Agriculture and Food or officials authorised by him shall exercise control of the placing on the market of new engines installed or intended for installation in non-road machinery for the existence of an engine type-approval certificate or an engine family bearing the mark of conformity with the approved type. (5) The Minister of Agriculture and Food or officials authorised by him shall exercise control of the existence of a marking of conformity and/or of a valid declaration of conformity under the Law on Technical Requirements for Products, and of the machinery for the existence of an engine type approval certificate or an engine family under the mark of conformity with the approved type. According to § 11, there is a proposal of the MP Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. Article 15a is amended as follows: Art. 15a. (1) In carrying out the control and supervision exercise. 15 officials in accordance with their control and supervisory functions shall be entitled to: 1. to carry out inspections in production premises, warehouses, commercial and exhibition areas, commercial buildings, personal holdings, work in agriculture and forests; 2. require for verification by the EU type-approval certificate or national type-approval certificate technical documentation included in the technical file; 3. require a valid certificate of conformity with the EU approved type or a valid certificate of conformity with the nationally approved type or a valid declaration of conformity; 4. check for the presence of the necessary markings and markings on systems, components or separate technical units for equipment under art. 9, para. 2, p. 1 - 4; 5. to carry out a verification of the technique concerning the presence of registration, a technical examination, safety, technical condition; 6. carry out checks on compliance with the regulatory requirements in carrying out the training activity for acquiring a licence to work with a technique; in the event of an infringement of the conditions and/or arrangements for carrying out the activity, they shall make proposals to the Minister of Agriculture and Food to terminate the registration for carrying out the training activity under this law; 7. to stop the technique of operation or movement for inspection, to check the identity documents and the licence of the person working with the technique; 8. of free access to the premises of the checks; 9. issue mandatory prescriptions in accordance with Chapter 6; 10. draw up acts establishing administrative infringements in accordance with Chapter 7. (2) Officials under para. 1 are required to: 1. identify precisely the facts of the control or supervision carried out; 2. shall not disclose data from the checks prior to their completion and shall not use the information obtained during the checks outside its intended purpose; 3. notify the Commission of consumer protection in cases where a breach of the requirements for new systems, components or separate technical units has been detected for new motor vehicles; 4. use notified technical services in the detection of infringements and carrying out checks to examine the conformity of new systems, components or separate technical units for equipment under art. 9, para. 2 with the approved type. (3) In carrying out the control under this law, the officials under para. 1 are required to be legitimised with a service card and to keep the facts and circumstances which constitute a manufacturing or commercial secret secret secret secret.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u91	Statements under § 20 and § 21? I won't. We're voting on the two paragraphs. Vote 79 MPs: for 73, against 4, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u92	According to § 12 there is a proposal of the MP Tsveta Karayancheva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15b the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In the text before t. 1 the word "Persons" is replaced by "Economic operators." 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 and 2 the words the employees of the Control-Command and Signalling Board shall be replaced by the persons responsible under art. 15a, para. 1.................................................................................. 3. A t is created. 4. "4." fulfil the requirements set out in Chapter II and Chapter XII of Regulation (EU) No Under § 13, the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 23. Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal of the MP Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. Article 17 is amended as follows: Art. 17. (1) Fees under the law shall be determined by a tariff approved by the Council of Ministers. (2) The owners of the equipment shall pay to the respective Regional Directorate for Agriculture and Rural Development a fee under para. 1 for: 1. carrying out identification; 2. carrying out a registration; 3. technical examinations, with the exception of thematic reviews. The proposal of the MP Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 and 2 the words................................................................................................ 2. In para. 3 the words "the service inspection shall be given" shall be replaced by "the obliged persons under art. 15a, para. 1 give. The words. When established....are replaced by....when established....and the word....the representation....is replaced by....the representation. 3. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The officials referred to in Article 1 (4) shall be the members of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of 1. lack of EU type-approval certificate; 2. lack of an amended EU type-approval certificate; 3. lack of a valid EU certificate of conformity with the approved type; 4. non-compliance of the technique with the data specified in the EU type-approval certificate; 5. lack of national type-approval certificate; 6. lack of a certificate to amend national type-approval; 7. lack of a valid certificate of conformity with the national type approved; 8. non-compliance of the technique with the data specified in the national type-approval certificate; 9. lack of an engine type-approval certificate or an engine family or lack of a type-approval mark for new engines fitted or intended for installation in a power-driven vehicle. 4. In para. 5 the words "the service inspection shall be given" shall be replaced by "the obliged persons under art. 15a, para. 1 is given. 5. The creation of para. 6: The officials referred to in paragraph 1 shall be appointed by the Executive Director of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors. 15a, para. 1 notify the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision in establishing a lack of a
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u93	That's it. Are there any statements under paragraphs 22, 23, 24 and 25? I won't. Anblock, we vote the four paragraphs. Vote 77 MPs: 75 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u94	Paragraph 16 s of the proposal of the MP Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18a The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the word "supplied" is replaced by "supplied" and the words "supplied" by the regional departments of the "Supports" shall be replaced by "Supporters of the regional departments of the "Supports" and "Supports" shall be replaced by "Supporters of the regional departments of the "Supports" and "Supports" shall be replaced by "Supports." 2. In para. 3 the word "supplied' is replaced by "applied'. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 17 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u95	That's it. We are voting on Paragraph 26 of the Commission and on the Commission's proposal to reject § 17. Vote 71 MPs: 68 against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u96	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18, which shall become § 27. Proposal of the MP Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to set up new paragraphs 28, 29 and 30: ....... 28........................................... 28 Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 21a, 21b and 21c: Art. 21a. (1) Whoever commits any of the infringements referred to in art. 72, paragraph 2, points (a) and (b) shall be punished with a fine of BGN 2500 to BGN 5000. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 was committed by a legal person or a sole trader, a penalty of 5000 to 10 000 BGN is imposed. Art. 21b. (1) Who does not comply with a mandatory prescription under art. 18, para. 4 is punished with a fine from 2500 to 5000 BGN. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 was committed by a legal person or a sole trader, a penalty of 5000 to 10 000 BGN is imposed. Art. 21c. (1) Who shall place on the market a technique in violation of art. 10, is punished with a fine from 2500 to 5000 BGN. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 was committed by a legal person or a sole trader, a penalty of 5000 to 10 000 BGN is imposed. § 29. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22 para. 1 is amended as supplied or placed on the market equipment, systems, components and separate technical units or internal combustion engines for non-road machinery in violation of art. 9 or art. 9e, or falsified documents or markings for the purpose of making or placing on the market, shall be punished with a fine from 2500 to 5000 BGN. § 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22b, para. 1 t. 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. which is in violation of art. 10a, t. 4;.................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 32. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21, which shall become § 33. Proposal of the MP Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 34: ................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 22f: Art. 22. To a person who has committed a breach of this law, to Regulation (EU) No 167/2013 or to a regulatory act implementing them, other than those referred to in art. A fine of 50 to 500 BGN is imposed, a penalty of 100 to 1000 BGN respectively. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 35. Paragraph 23? a proposal of the MP Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u97	So far you have also reported § 35. Statements on paragraphs 27 to 35 included? I won't. We vote. Vote 74 MPs: 72 against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u98	Paragraph 23? a proposal of the MP Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. The additional provision shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1: (a) c. 1 the words "type approvals' shall be replaced by "EU type approved' or by national type approved "type'; b) points 4, 5 and 6 are amended as follows: "4." "Tractor" is a concept within the meaning of art. 3, p. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 5. "Component" is a concept within the meaning of art. 3, p. 18 of Regulation (EU) No 167/2013. 6. The marking of compliance with the approved type shall be indicated in accordance with the requirements of the regulations under art. 9b 9c or in art. 34 of Regulation (EU) No is amended as follows: (c) point 9 is amended as follows: Nine. The approval of the type of internal combustion engines shall be a verification procedure that a type of engine or an internal combustion engine family meets the technical requirements of the ordinance under art. 9c. (d) points 10 and 11 are amended as follows: ..10. "Learning in use" is a concept within the meaning of art. 3, p. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 11. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). (e) c. 13 words. 9, para. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. 9c (f) points 14, 15, 16 and 17 are amended as follows: It's 14 years old. "Sistema" is a concept within the meaning of art. 3, p. 17 of Regulation (EU) No 167/2013. 15. "Remarke" is a concept within the meaning of art. 3, p. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 16. "Distributive coupling technique" is a concept within the meaning of art. 3, p. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 17. "Determined technical unit" is a concept within the meaning of art. 3, p. 19 of Regulation (EU) No is amended as follows: (g) points 21, 22, 23 and 24 are amended as follows: ..21. "Manufacturer" is a concept within the meaning of art. 3, p. 25 of Regulation (EU) No 167/2013. 22. The manufacturer's representative is a concept within the meaning of art. 3, p. 26 of Regulation (EU) No 167/2013. 23. supposed to be a concept within the meaning of art. 3, p. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 24. "Equipment" is a concept within the meaning of art. 3, p. 21 of Regulation (EU) No is amended as follows: (h) Paragraphs 26-38 shall be created: "26." "Registration" is a concept within the meaning of art. 3, p. 38 of Regulation (EU) No 167/2013. 27. "Inherit" is a concept within the meaning of art. 3, p. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 28. "Distributor" is a concept within the meaning of art. 3, p. 42 of Regulation (EU) No 167/2013. 29. The economic operator is a concept within the meaning of art. 3, p. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 30. The vehicle is a tractor, trailer or interchangeable coupling equipment as defined in points 8, 9 and 10 of Regulation (EU) No 167/2013. 31. The approval of the type is a concept within the meaning of art. 3, p. 1 of Regulation (EU) No 167/2013. 32. "National type-approval" is a procedure for type-approval under the regulation under art. 9b. 33. The EU type-approval shall be a concept within the meaning of art. 3, p. 7 of Regulation (EU) No 167/2013. 34. The EU type-approval certificate is a concept within the meaning of art. 3, p. 32 of Regulation (EU) No 167/2013. 35. The national type-approval certificate is a document issued by the Minister of Agriculture and Food, certifying that the type of technique under art. 9, para. 2 meets the relevant technical requirements of the regulation under art. 9b. 36. The market surveillance is a concept within the meaning of art. 3, p. 44 of Regulation (EU) No 167/2013. 37. "Providement of the market" is a concept within the meaning of art. 3, p. 47 of Regulation (EU) No 167/2013. 38. "Technical Service" is a concept within the meaning of art. 3, p. 28 of Regulation (EU) No is amended as follows: 2. Paragraph 1a is inserted: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way. This law provides for implementing measures for Regulation (EU) No 167/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 February 2013 on the approval and market surveillance of agricultural and forestry vehicles.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u99	Statements? I won't. We vote § 36. Vote 74 MPs: 70 against 4, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u100	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 37: ??? 37??????????? 37???????????? (1) The control-technical inspection of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food shall be closed. (2) Within one month of the entry into force of this Act, the Minister of Agriculture and Food shall appoint a liquidation commission and determine its functions. The Chair of the liquidation commission shall represent and direct the closed inspection. (3) The liquidation commission shall carry out the liquidation of the closed inspection within 6 months of its appointment. The liquidation costs shall be at the expense of the means of maintenance under the established budget of the Control-Technical Inspection and the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. (4) The assets, liabilities, records as well as other rights and obligations of the Control-Technical Inspection shall be transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, respectively to the Regional.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u101	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the name of the section of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board Vote 79 MPs: 74 against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, here we will interrupt the second reading of the Bill, as there are texts on which unsupported proposals have been made, so we will continue on Tuesday with the following paragraphs. At 11:00, parliamentary control begins. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u102	Colleagues, the sitting shall continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. For the period from 13 to 19 November 2015, a request was received from the National Representative Yavor Haytov to Hristo Ivanov, Minister of Justice, on the implementation of Decision No 42 of 26 January 2015 of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria for the adoption of a Programme of the Government for the Sustainable Development of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2018 in the part of Chapter 2. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 27 November 2015. Written answers for service by: - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Petar Ivanov Petrov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Petar Ivanov Petrov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on two issues from the National Representative Sultanka Petrova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a request from the National Representative Sultanka Petrova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Ivan Cholakov. First in control today is Mr. Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy. He will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov about the organization and holding of Local elections 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u103	Honourable President, Vice Prime Minister, Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Donchev, you have been appointed by the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to be personally responsible for the conduct of Local Elections 2015 The Bulgarian citizens witnessed dirty elections. These are not my words, but the words of the Prime Minister and the leader of the opposition, accompanied by mass violations, which sparked hundreds of litigation, objections and contests of the announced results. The law prohibits the opening of sacks of ballots and electoral documents. Millions of Bulgarian citizens have seen through the impartial lenses of television how this is done, and to this day there are no penalties. Violation of citizens' political rights is the violation of the Constitution, the laws of the country and is defined as a crime when it comes to these political rights. How else can the Bulgarian citizen interpret the fact that the vote he cast was taken into account in the sectional protocols? How do we explain the scanned copies of the protocols of most sections over 90%, filled with scratches, repairs and additions? What is true and responds to the information that ballots carry in sealed bags? Scratch or what's written? Which of the two incompatible things are the signatures of the members of the committees who previously submitted their signatures? When all these violations remain unpunished, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, they become a further norm, a permissible standard of conduct. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] That's how democracy, the rule of law, and...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u104	Ask the question! You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u105	... and after all statehood in Bulgaria. How do you explain these things, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u106	For an answer Mr. Tomislav Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Bozhinov! Despite the dramatic angle of your question, I am very happy that you are asking me this because it would be a mistake if all the difficulties related to the election process of local elections 2015 plus the referendum were forgotten a week or two after that. Moreover, some of the responsibilities not to allow such problems are also directly within the powers of the National Assembly. And I would very much like it if there were a parliamentary debate on the subject, and above all a solution. Here, despite the short time, I will try to mark the main points and the main reasons that have caused difficulties in the electoral process. I have already had the opportunity to comment that some of the texts of the Election Code give a defect in their actual application in practice. It will hardly surprise the need to hold a choice in extremely small town halls. It does not contribute particularly to democracy, but it makes it difficult for the electoral process. Limiting in law the number of members of municipal electoral committees, especially for large cities, as it turns out in Sofia, also gives a defect. These are the technical obvious questions. There are conceptual ones. Think of it as a friendly challenge on my part. What are our electoral administrations supposed to be? Formed entirely by political quota principle, professional or a combination of the two? Yesterday there was a discussion of the Central Election Commission's Public Council, where this issue was discussed, including a good proposal for me that the political forces should have the right and the opportunity to broadcast representatives at different levels in electoral administrations, but that they should have a professional core, a professional secretary, which would guarantee a little more literacy. Because in some of the violations and the problems that you have commented on, I am not afraid to say it, is frank illiterateness, especially at the level of section election committees, which you are absolutely right, give the Bulgarian citizens a reason to doubt how honest the electoral process was, and this is bad for everyone, not for the winners, but for the defeated in one or another municipality. It disproves people of the sense to support or not to support someone. You can't let that happen twice. Other topics which are rather beyond the powers of the National Assembly, but should also be discussed. What quality are the trainings carried out, especially the electoral administrations, are we talking about the sectionals again? Obviously, it wasn't enough. In what way is the entire system subordinated in the electoral administrations. We now have a leading role of the Central Election Commission [[the President signals that time has run out]] , all other electoral administrations, including municipal electoral committees have one certain level of independence, this is good in certain situations. However, practice shows that in a critical situation, this causes difficulties. And these are all questions that the National Assembly should be dealing with. As for this, if you're interested in what my humble, sometimes good, sometimes traumatic experience is, I'm always able to share what I know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u108	A line, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u109	Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you are right that the elections held so aroused many suspicions in broad layers of the Bulgarian people. I will quote to you an expert opinion of a non-EU political party subject. "Banker" (No. 45 of this year, in an analysis that takes place in the elections, notes: The rules are so many and so obvious that it is not possible to think of anything other than conscious and massive violation of the law on the extraction of benefits for specific participants in the so-called elections. Since this is about violations of the law, I do not purposely ask you about the defects of the law, but about obvious violations of the law, which remain unpunished, the opening of the sacks and the touching of the electoral documents is a crime. Last Friday, I asked the Minister of Interior, who with you jointly responds to the Bulgarian people on behalf of the Council of Ministers, will anyone find out what is the origin of the money that buys elections? No result will be received by the Bulgarian people. That is exactly how, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the foundations of the state are broken when the laws are not respected, when there are no consequences, regardless of who is taking advantage of it. Because the passion for power, despite the laws, creates another passion and avalanche of passions, which has scary dimensions in today's day. It was your duty, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, to seek both responsibility and the personalization of these obvious crimes and violations of the law. I'm not talking about profit. Wins from the elections, if anyone wins, it is the Bulgarian people if their life becomes better. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] If his life doesn't get better, someone else has won the election, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u110	A hole, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u111	Dear Mr. Bojinov, you probably know that a total of 171 pre-trial proceedings have been initiated for crimes related to the electoral process, and 128 of them are directly related to crimes against citizens' political rights. I hope that all responsible institutions, including the representatives of the prosecution and of the judiciary, will do their job, see condemned. Not just because of guilt, but as a prevention measure. Because you're absolutely right. You are absolutely right when democracy is replaced by money or payment, it is essentially an end to democracy. In the modern world, you should be able to buy everything without having the right to buy authentic support from people. Whatever theme we have, there's no dispute here. I hope both at the level of legislation and at the level of action of the individual institutions such attempts not only to be punished but to create prerequisites not to happen. I've already marked some of the proposals. By the way, very soon the Bulgarian Parliament will have to deal with the topic of electronic voting. It is a convenient occasion to comment on whether this is an option to avoid some of the harsh machinations that there are attempts in the electoral process. As for the sacks, there is a deliberate decision of the Central Election Commission of 18 October 2015. Anyone who has committed an infringement should have the responsibility. I'm on that principle. Anyone who has not done his job must bear the responsibility, no matter what it is, political, administrative, and in those cases where it is necessary and criminal. However, whatever differences the political forces have, left, right, different coordination systems from the centre, they have a common interest: the electoral process is such that it does not cause confusion, anxiety and doubts in the citizens. I am convinced that this is a common interest of all the political forces in this Parliament, and very soon you will have the opportunity to prove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u112	Thank you, Mr. Donchev, for participating in today's parliamentary control. On behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr. Mikov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u113	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! Events occur that, if they do not change the course of world history, they will certainly leave a deep trail in it. The causes of these events are rooted in the huge inequalities and the enormous poverty that is increasingly taking over the world. The examples are relentlessly clear.. the high levels of poverty and inequalities destroy the state and disintegrate society. Inequality and poverty.. here are the real problems facing Bulgaria today, before today of Bulgaria. Not highways, not public procurement, which are distributed among several large companies, but inequalities and poverty, which directly affect the lives of more than half of the Bulgarians. This week, the government acknowledged that it had failed to manage the 2015 budget and requested its update. It did this somehow hidden in the transitional and final provisions of the draft budget for next year. It failed to meet its budget the year it borrowed billions. Despite these loans, despite the overcollection that the prime minister proudly reports with conflicting figures, people are increasingly poor. They feel that in their pocket and in their refrigerator. Everyone encounters poverty when he sends his child to school when he needs medical attention when he has to be supported only by his pension or minimum wage. But the government doesn't seem to be uncomfortable. It says today we have fiscal consolidation, we have stability of public finances, we have good parameters of the budgetary framework and so on. These are principles that should be followed by any government. This stability is apparent, and the price we pay for this policy of the government is very high. Because there is no stability, stability cannot arise only from the figures in the budget columns. People are getting more and more aware that there is no such stability. Stable and sustainable is only the stubbornness of the government that in Bulgaria life is getting better as a cynical and irresponsible thesis of people without connection to reality. Today, Bulgaria is more indebted than ever. The debt is growing and the new debts cover the old ones. This is a debt spiral, which not only does not guarantee growth and employment, but on the contrary, it condemns our country to years without social and economic progress. Because the budget can't be technology. The budget is an instrument of policy, of government proposals as a philosophy. We say we do not share your understanding and policies because they are not in the interest of the majority of Bulgarian citizens. There is an alternative to this philosophy. There is an alternative to your right policy and the budget can be part of it. In Bulgaria 48% of people live at risk of poverty. The level is at least twice as high as the average in the European Union. But there is also more fearsome poverty in our country is passed down through generations. The poor man's son and daughter tomorrow are most likely doomed to be poor. Why? Because the ideology of the government says that a state shouldn't have, and everyone should be able to do it on their own, and whoever doesn't succeed, it's their own fault. This takes the equal chance and we from BSP left Bulgaria ask how will those 57% of Bulgarian children who since birth are at risk of poverty be treated? How can they be cured when their existence at the most fragile age is reduced only to a living? How can they compete with the children of those who have given hundreds of thousands of leva for private lessons, for expensive schools and foreign universities? Today we have to say that there is an alternative. The alternative is not to subsidize private schools, but to support municipal and state schools to give all children a chance. Because Bulgarian history shows that there can be a world-class education in them. It is alternative not to raise the age for pension, not to transfer back and forth contributions between funds and the Insurance Institute. The pension system should not be viewed as a burden on the state budget. Because, ladies and gentlemen, when young people are threatened by poverty and old people are poor, those in active age leave. Today in Bulgaria, the active social policy, the measures for raising incomes and combating poverty are a pledge for the future of the nation, and they are not in the new budget. In Bulgaria 43% of people experience acute material deprivation. This is four and a half times the average in the European Union that we are a member of. And behind the cold expression of material deprivation, the cruel reality of the daily life of millions of Bulgarians is peering into the daily life. This means that you cannot afford to eat meat regularly, for example. To this deprivation, the government responds with the tax of harmful food. Bulgarians have no money for normal foods, but they should eat organic foods. Care for people requires an increase in low incomes because this is the only alternative and we from BSP left Bulgaria will defend this. Budget 2016 is a continuation of the philosophy in education, which turned education from right into a commodity subject to speculation and commercial appetites. Education costs are falling as a share of gross domestic product, and not just for this year, but as a forecast for the next, but are introduced and increased subsidies for private schools. Our alternative is clear: we also stated it during the discussion of the Law on Education, and now we are against limiting access to education for thousands of Bulgarians and preserving the free nature of education. Because it is nice to be given help for a first-grader, but what do children from poor families do to those 50% of students in Bulgaria in the second, third, IV, V, VI, VI class? Dear ladies and gentlemen, there is no financial stability in the country, but there is an alternative to your budget! This alternative is called redistribution. This alternative is in the progressive taxation that you denied ten days ago when we proposed it again. This alternative is called justice. Instead of an observer state, it may be a fair distributor of public wealth once it has fairly defined the burden of tax burden and therefore a progressive tax system is needed, and a second time by redistributing what is collected through the budget actively so as to reduce both poverty and inequalities. Only our right-wing rulers have not yet understood that Europe is going down this path, that Europe is increasing the allocated share of gross domestic product through the budget to respond to the major tests of the crisis and to stop the social disintegration in Europe. Dear MPs, from BSP left Bulgaria we insist on thawing social payments and increasing their size, subject matter and personal scope. These payments must be in line with both the formal poverty threshold and the minimum wage. We insist that the fight against poverty and the increase in incomes be brought up as a major priority of the government, a priority to which all actions of the state will be subject, and not only for the mandate of a government, but as a sustainable state policy on which there is continuity, because the care for the majority of citizens is a concern for the future of Bulgaria. Dear MPs, we have a rare but perhaps last chance to dispel the fog in which you live and to face the ugly picture of the visible and invisible results of today's right-wing of Bulgaria. Because whatever we talk about in the media, people know there's an alternative, and it's a clear alternative. The alternative to cynicism is solidarity, the alternative to lying is truth, and the right-wing government is the left-wing government for development of Bulgaria! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u114	Parliamentary control continues with the answers of Mr. Krasen Kralev "The Minister of Youth and Sports." A question from MP Georgi Turnovaliski about providing funding for the preparation of the Bulgarian Paralympic team. Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u115	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. and Mrs. Ministers! Mr. Minister, last week the media told us one of the few good news, namely that the Bulgarian Paralympics won for our country seven awards at the World Championship in Athletics. Nine of the athletes who presented Bulgaria during the competitions in Doha, Qatar returned with three world titles, a silver medal and three bronze awards. Thanks to the success our gold medalists won, Bulgaria acquired two direct quotas for the Rio de Janeiro Paralympic Games in 2016. These are impressive results because they are achieved in strong competition with nearly 1300 competitors from over 90 countries. But so much for the good news. The Paralympic team of Bulgaria remains without funds for preparation until the end of the year. This is why the President of the Paralympic Association Iliya Lalov alarmed. The main part of the money was aimed precisely at preparing for this championship, and already the Federation budget has been reduced by over 70 thousand. lv. The team has an important preparation until the end of the year, as the regulations for Rio de Janeiro will be covered in the first four months of 2016. Moreover, the paralympics receive 50% of the means of preparation that the state grants to healthy athletes, i.e. BGN 8000. the year of the racer. It also turns out that our Paralympics' coaches have been stripped of the benefits to pensions received by healthy athletes who won medals at the Olympic Games. Dear Minister, my question to you is this: will you take action to secure the funds needed to prepare the Bulgarian Paralympic team? Do you foresee more money for them in the Ministry's budget for next year? What measures will you take to ensure normal conditions of preparation and will you take action to return social benefits to retired Paralympic trainers with gold Olympic medals?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u116	For an answer, Minister Kralev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Turnovallisky, I appreciate your interest and concern for this topic. Since a lot of speculative figures and facts have been exported in recent weeks regarding the financing of Bulgarian athletes with disabilities, thank you very much for the opportunity to clarify this issue and develop the topic. In 2015, the Bulgarian Paralympic Association applied with projects under the Olympic Training Program and under the Sports Development Program for High Achievements and the Children's and Youth Sports for Olympic Sports for 2015. 23 sports federations were funded under the 2015 Olympic Training Programme, with the Bulgarian Paralympic Association at 12th place on received sports funds. The contract includes financing preparation, recovery, participation in the International Sports Calendar and monthly funds for 12 competitors, 10 coaches and 4 officials. The total amount of the contract amounts to 460 thousand. lv. I would like you to note that this money is distributed between 12 competitors. If we calculate how much money is available for the preparation of a racer, the Bulgarian Paralympic Association is the first priority in the allocation of funds, of all athletes of all federations, of the preparation of a specific racer, of a specific person. Under the Program for the Development of Sports for High Achievements and Children's Youth Sports for Olympic Sports 2015 for administrative expenses of the Paralympic Association, State Sports Calendar, the purchase of sports equipment, rentals of sports objects and facilities, as well as the preparation, restoration and participation of athletes from age groups before men and women in competitions from the International Sports Calendar, where five contestants and two coaches are included, the total means of the contract amount to BGN 75 400. In 2015, the Bulgarian Paralympic Association received a total of BGN 535 500, which puts it at 17th place in absolute amount of the funds received compared to 57 funded sports organizations in the field of sport for excellence. The Athletes of the Association, which participated in state championships for 2014, are 345 and according to this indicator it is 43th place compared to the others. The Bulgarian rowing federation with BGN 566 423 which has 665 carded athletes who participated in the state championships, compared to 345, which are of the Paralympic Association. After it according to financial indicator is the Bulgarian Badminton Federation, which receives 505 225 BGN, with 1524 carded contestants, i.e. five times more than the Paralympic Association. For 2015 under the various programs from the Ministry of Youth and Sports are financed: Bulgarian Paralympic Association total of 535 500 BGN.; Sports Federation of the Deaf in Bulgaria total of 492 892 BGN; Sports Federation - Sports for people with disabilities (total) of 20 thousand. lv.28 projects of sports clubs with funds of 91 thousand have been financed under the Programme "Sport for children with disabilities and children at risk." lv. Under the Sports Club Development Program, 11 sports clubs, members of the Bulgarian Paralympic Association, totaling BGN 46 594. In 2016, the Bulgarian Paralympic Association can apply for the programs of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, such as the players of Paralympics who won allowances, will be provided the same conditions as the competitors participating in the Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro in 2016. The International Paralympic Committee...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u118	Mr. Secretary, you're running out of time. You'll answer in the back after the line. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u119	Dear Minister, my question was specific. I don't need you to make a ranking of different federations. I didn't ask that. We don't have to waste time. In the end, the Paralympic Association received these funds because it applied under the program, by the rules that you signed, and that money was received by your order. In recent years the good news from Bulgarian athletes is less and less. That's what I started with. The Bulgarian Paralympics have brought this pride to our country and I believe that they have the right to have claims, to prepare and continue to present the state well. Therefore, my question to you is specific: by the end of the year and for the beginning of the next, before the new programs are approved, will you provide funds, or will these good athletes of ours lose them, as many others have lost over the years?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u120	A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u121	Dear Mr. Turnovallisky, we will not lose anyone. These figures are exported to answer the question what is the amount of funds the Association has received. So I compare because it turns out that despite these findings this Association is one of the most funded in the country. The Bulgarian Paralympics received the most funds. Therefore, for next year, for this year we cannot talk about budget corrections, because these funds are known in advance and everyone is planning their budget spending, but for 2016, in order to support all sports federations developing sports for disabled people who have not yet had this opportunity, the Ministry of Youth and Sports has developed a new Sports Development Programme for disabled people. The program brings together various programs of the Ministry of Youth and Sports aimed at motor activity and sport practice by disabled people. To date, no Federations developing a relevant sport for people with disabilities such as rowing, basketball, Canadian fighting and others, for which the new programme will provide the opportunity for financial support for their activities. The International Paralympic Committee develops 31 types of sport, of which 26 summers and 5 winters. The Bulgarian Paralympic Association, unfortunately, administers only 10 summer sports and one winter sport. Our new program includes two separate directions: sport for excellence for people with disabilities. In this direction, sports organisations can be assisted in preparing and participating athletes with disabilities in the Paralympic Games, world European Championships and holding state championships finals. And sport in leisure time for people with disabilities. The program has a budget of 1 million. 400,000. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. 185,000. 986 BGN, i.e., it appears to have 200,000. the increase of around 18% for the next budget in 2016 compared to the one for 2015. The new program will provide the opportunity to develop more sports for disabled people and thus much more Bulgarian athletes from different sports will be able to participate in the Paralympic Games. This is the basic idea of these games, of this organization. Regarding your question about the return of social benefits for retired Paralympic trainers with gold medals from Olympiads, I would like to inform you that such benefits have never been given to coaches to be returned. The Ministry of Youth and Sport does not have an available resource to provide additional funds to provide these social benefits so that it can initiate legislative amendments to the subject you have set. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u122	Thank you, Minister, for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the questions addressed to the Minister of Tourism Mrs. Nikolina Angelkova. Before that, however, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Mr. Georg Georgiev, authorized by the management.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Populism and speculation are the methods and primos that begin to act when these political arguments and arguments are no longer there. Lie interferes where politics stops talking, and there and when frustration begins to interfere. I recall only two years ago: Parliament under occupation, students beaten on the streets, enclosures only 100 days after parliament took an oath, international isolation, stopped EU funds for the second time. One big step in foreign policy relations is to open a restaurant in Vietnam. When there is a management of BSP, young people flee from Bulgaria, young people seek salvation somewhere else.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u124	And now they're coming back?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u125	When BSP rules, there are bankrupt banks! When BSP rules, there's no telling what's going to happen tomorrow! When BSP rules, young people have no alternative, no future and no light in the tunnel! There was talk of pensions and social benefits. I will only recall 2009 and the last decision of the cabinet Sergey Stanishev: an increase in pensions with a higher step and outside any rules of finance, pensions, which are subsequently paid by the GERB government for four years. You call this a lack of social policy? I'm lying! [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u126	Please, no lines. Colleagues, we've been polite and we've heard the declaration...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u127	CTB 3 billion paid by the right government of GERB. A bank that went bankrupt in Plamen Oresharski's office, the finance minister in Stanishev's office, Oresharski. Stopped funds twice. The EU's absorption rate after 2007 supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way Less than a percentage again after 2013 Usability at the moment. Bulgaria in the top 5 of the countries that use the most EU funds. What would you say to all those people, though from the distance of time, who with tens of thousands were on the streets just two years ago? What would you say to those people who left the country during the rule of the BSP and the triple coalition, the DPS and the attack?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u128	What about those who are leaving now?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u129	What would you say to those people who are now coming back and finding a way to work and develop in the country? Maybe you can say it was all your fault. What is the justification for how many left-wing governments have crashed in Europe and currently Europe is right? We're talking about alternatives. The alternative Bulgarians saw it just a few weeks ago and it is 22 to zero. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u130	Please, no lines from a place, even more on the trails!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u131	Why don't you take your exams first and then talk like a young MP?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u132	The alternative is 22 to zero. Yes, I'm a MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u133	Do not engage in dialogue, Mr. Georgiev, with them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u134	As a young man, I will never put up with what has been done in the country for 20 years, with what has been done by the left-wing governments in Bulgaria, and these governments, which have entered into coalitions outside of all political ethics, outside of any political mind, these governments, under whose orders my peers, as you said, have left this country. I'm not ashamed of being young. There is a future for young people in Bulgaria. And this future is developing under the right hand. And this future will be the alternative to all this populism, lies, speculation and demagogy, which is poured into the public domain by left-wing parties. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u135	We continue parliamentary control with Ms. Dora Yankova's question about the winter tourist season to Minister Angelkova. As I said before the declaration, the MPs Slavi Binev and Volen Siderov have postponed their questions about today's control. We're listening, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u136	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, my question is related to the winter tourist season, but as I am aware of what the development of ski centres and the challenges to the development of mountain areas are, in this regard I may say to the speaker that nearly six years, of which I have, one year had the management of Prime Minister Oresharski, continues in the Rhodope region the unemployment in certain municipalities is 30%, 28%, and an average of 18%, overall. And it is no accident that I ask the Minister of Tourism, because I know that it is tourism that is that economic power during the winter period in our mountain, in the mountains of Bulgaria, which gives economic revival. I realize that tourism is a complex of many policies, sectoral ones that intersect, and that is why, Minister, you have the enormous responsibility and with the policy that you are a person of the Ministry, and with the policy of the government, where you are a member of the Council of Ministers, to give those policies, that power and energy, so that the winter season will be good, more people will have opportunities to work, Bulgaria to establish itself as a good tourist destination, because we are all interested in this Chamber and we will establish tourism as one of the serious sectors in the economic and economic development of Bulgaria. And since winter is coming, and since the questions are very open, I ask your answer: what is the readiness of mountain winter resorts for the normal start of the winter tourist season? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u137	Here you are, Mrs. Angelkova, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u138	Madam President, Mr Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, regarding your inquiry about the readiness to start the winter tourist season, I inform you of the following. In the period of the pre-seasonal preparation of the upcoming tourist season of the winter 2015, the Ministry of Tourism organized a series of meetings with the participating institutions in the tourism industry, held in the period 15 October 2015 on the territory of Pamporovo, Borovets and Bansko resorts. At the working meetings, an analysis of the results of the control activities of the Commission for Consumer Protection, Regional Health Inspections, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, the Directorate-General for National Police and the Directorate-General for Fire Safety and Population Protection and the Mountain Rescue Service in the season 2014 - 2015 was carried out and the readiness for the upcoming winter season of 2015 was discussed. In order to ensure the safety of tourists visiting the resort complexes in the country, an annual plan for the activities of the Ministry of Interior for the protection of public order, the fight against crime and the provision of fire safety in the tourist complexes is prepared and validated. Following reasoned proposals from the directors of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior, an organisation is established for the secondment of civil servants with police powers from other bodies of the office. The regional disaster and disaster protection plans are discussed in order to ensure the security of tourists and their peaceful rest. The Consumer Protection Commission plans to reveal admissions to winter resorts in mid-December. The teams will check the categorisation, compliance of tourist sites, as well as the activity of traders with the possible application of various misleading and unfair practices. Follow-up checks are to be carried out by the Consumer Protection Commission on whether hoteliers and restaurants have implemented their activities in accordance with the requirements of the law, as well as after violations have already been detected during the past season. Last season, the Consumer Protection Commission carried out a total of 2616 checks, 506 of which at the accommodations, 2110 in the restaurants and had 219 acts, 69 of which in Pamporovo. The Food Safety Agency has carried out 517 inspections, 82 of which in Smolyan, as well as 15 prescriptions. The regional health inspection found only five violations in the previous winter. On the basis of these figures, a positive trend is formed to reduce the number of detected infringements of the regulations. They show the efforts for more responsible and self-disciplined work by the industry, which is a prerequisite for ensuring the quality of the tourist product. I recall that over 8% growth of foreign tourists in Bulgaria was reported in the last winter season and nearly 5% more revenues than international tourism. Thanks to the relieved visa procedures, the policy we will continue to implement during this upcoming winter season, Turkish tourists' attendance has increased by nearly 30%. Growths mark other target markets of ours: UK - 15%, Germany - 11%, Israel - 26%, Macedonia and Serbia - 9%, Greece - 6%. Expectations are in the upcoming winter season this positive trend to continue. The data from the requested seasonal flights at Sofia airport is evidenced by 178 in number, 80 more than last winter's tourist season. This is a clear sign that Bulgaria is becoming not only more recognizable but also more preferred tourist destination for winter tourism. During this winter at Sofia airport six times more seasonal flights were requested from Kiev and a new destination was included. The number of seasonal flights requested by London to Sofia airport is 69 and is much higher than last year when they were only 24. Data from Plovdiv airport also confirm expectations for a good winter tourist season. At Plovdiv airport are expected a higher number of flights and passengers from important markets for our winter tourism, such as Israel Based on the data from the early recordings we have from tour operators and winter resorts, there is an expected growth of between 5% and 7% for the upcoming winter season. As regards the sub-legal legal basis concerning winter tourism, I inform you that on the basis of art. 159 of the Tourism Act The Council of Ministers adopted a Ordinance on the securing and information security of ski slopes in the Republic of Bulgaria and laying down safety rules on ski slopes, ski zones and the work of ski patrols. The Regulation lays down the restraint requirements and the information security of ski slopes, safety rules on ski slopes and ski zones and the organisation for ski patrol work. It has already been established by my order Commission to determine the type of ski slopes and their safety. The Commission will carry out checks to determine the type of ski slopes, following a request to the Minister of Tourism by the owner or by the person granted rights to use the ski slopes adjacent to the ski slopes, to determine the degree of complexity of the ski slopes and their safety. In order to prevent incidents and to ensure the security of tourists for the first time in Bulgaria, uniform requirements for the qualification and order for the exercise of the activities of the mountain guide are established. This shall be governed by a separate regulation which has been finalised and is to be promulgated in the respective order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. Mrs. Yankova, you have two additional questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u140	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, it is good that you have made operational meetings in relation to the preparation and rather to the players who are the territory of the winter resorts, those who are the operators of the ski facilities; those who offer services related to restaurants and hotel services. However, you are a minister in the government of Borisov-2, who is responsible for many more things and we have spoken to you at the Economic Commission with you with the following few questions. I also turn here to announce from the platform of parliament to calm people who are engaged in winter tourism, as this is an activity in the mountains of Borovets, for Bansko and the Rhodopes, will there be enough funds for winter maintenance and will there be an opportunity again in the media to hear: The winter again caught us unprepared, two-three hours................................ and hard access to winter resorts....................................................................................... Can you guarantee that there will be enough and reliable power, because even now, there are trees standing there, which winter from the windstorm and windroll have fallen? Is water guaranteed in parallel with this? You said you took precautions for medical care. This is a complex of the logistics of the Bulgarian state, which is given through the policies and the budget and the operational management of the state in the face of the ministers, and you are the minister who centered these policies in the Council of Ministers. I therefore appeal to you to share these policies will they give peace that the state is behind this industry categorically and strongly because it gives a livelihood in mountain areas?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u141	Thank you. Here you are, Madam Minister, to say if there will be clean roads, electricity and water.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u142	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Yankova, I can assure you that tourism is one of the main priorities in government management, and it is no coincidence that all sectors related to its development are also at the top of the cabinet's priorities. That's the infrastructure. Extremely much money is allocated to both transport and environmental infrastructure. You can see that every day new sites are constantly being opened, which facilitate the development of tourism in Bulgaria, not only of winter, but of all tourism, because our main goal is for Bulgaria to become a year-round tourist destination. You are aware of the recent changes in legislation that facilitate the cleaning of proses and roads from fallen trees so that both power supply and roads can be easily accessible. The information we have has contracts for both cleaning roads from the municipal road network and from the Republican road infrastructure. This is the main priority of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, and in particular of the Road Infrastructure Agency. I can assure you that we are working extremely hard and in close cooperation with all of us, so that we can ensure the smooth running of the winter season in particular, including water. We hold regular meetings not only within the Council of Ministers. You know that there is also a National Tourism Council with the Minister of Tourism, which is attended by all portfolio ministries at Deputy Minister level. There are constantly operational meetings with the regional governors and we have the assurance that the upcoming winter season is guaranteed with smooth running, including, as I announced earlier, an increase in the number of tourists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u143	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your assurances. Mrs. Yankova, you can express your attitude towards the answers of Minister Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u144	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, I didn't expect you to say otherwise. Undoubtedly, I expected you to share that the state is united, united with all sectoral policies in energy, roads, water supply, including consumer control and that tourism will be okay. However, there are many open questions. The road Asenovgrad.. Pamporovo with landslides and collapses, which this summer did not strengthen. There are questions about the second and third class roads with the landslide processes that have eroticized them and you have to go in one direction, exactly when you are traveling to the winter resorts. Yeah, there's been a change in the law on prosthetics and, God forbid, we have a normal feed during the winter season of electricity. I have put this issue in order to draw your attention to the fact that the responsibility of the Council of Ministers is great in order for a branch, an economic part of our development in mountain resorts, that is, the economy in the mountains to be stimulated and supported precisely by the government and you to stand in the centre of this coordination. You have made a commitment to the whole of Bulgaria and I want to share that we will very seriously monitor during this winter period whether everything you have shared is true, and we will exercise control over the government and individual institutions to be able to make logistics from the Bulgarian state so that the country's holding and economy can develop and people can have the opportunity to earn money in Bulgaria and develop their economic initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u145	Thank you. Thank you, Madam Minister, for your participation in Parliamentary Control. We move on to the questions addressed to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Daniel Mitov. Again to remind that there are delayed questions by the MPs Slavi Binev and Volen Siderov. We move on to a question from the MP Petar Petrov concerning a request for compensation from the citizens of the villages Mokren, Padarevo and Gorno Alexandrovo because of the issuance of harmful gases and noise from the military range Novo selo. Following it will ask the MPs Georgi Bojinov and Mihail Mikov. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, the question I am asking you is related to the situation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as a party when signing international treaties and in the case of the Treaty establishing the Bulgarian-American Training Base for conducting joint military exercises of the army on both sides of the polygon in Novo selo, Kotel Municipality. I myself am a MP from Sliven's multi-mandated electoral district. Mr. Minister, in a number of studies that I have come to know in the preparation of my question, it is stressed that in the ambient air of the polygon in Novo Selo during the conduct of the exercises are released harmful to health gases such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, dioxin, lead compounds, benzene, carbon monoxide, ozone, clouds of fine dust particles and a number of other gases, substances representing, some of them, probably strict military secrecy. In addition to the listed harmful atmospheric emissions, residents of the villages Mokren, Padarevo and Gorno Alexandrovo are exposed to hours and days of noise from flying military planes. I myself have a home in Sliven and I am also subjected when there is a teaching, to these noise impacts. In this regard, my question is: is it possible to hold talks with the United States Embassy in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to raise the question of a further conclusion of an agreement which will compensate to a certain extent those living in the villages of Mocrene, Padarevo and Gorno Alexandrovo?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u147	Here you are, Minister, for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u148	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Petrov, I would like to inform you of the following. On 28 April 2006 a Defence Cooperation Agreement was signed between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America, ratified by the National Assembly on 26 May 2006 and published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 55, as of that year 2006 Joint facilities within the meaning of the Agreement are the School polygon Novo selo, the Air Base Bezmer and the Air Base Count Ignatievo. Under the provisions of the Agreement, an executive agent from the Bulgarian Party for its implementation is the Ministry of Defence, which organizes and coordinates the activities and events and implements the interaction between the administrative units of the Ministry, the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence and the Bulgarian Army, as well as between the Ministry of Defence and other ministries, offices, organizations and structures of the state and local administration in the implementation of the respective Agreement. The Ministry of Defence is also responsible for coordinating the activities of the construction, operation, improvement and development of the infrastructure of the joint facilities in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and for their leading external infrastructure. The Ministry of Defence co-ordinates and organizes from the Bulgarian side the activities of supporting the United States' forces to implement events from the United States' humanitarian aid and reconstruction programme and joint military-civil cooperation activities. In addition to the above, according to art. 33, p. 3 of the Agreement, the Parties shall establish a Joint Commission for the implementation of the Agreement in question, which shall be co-chaired by representatives of their executive agents, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Department of Defence of the United States of America. The Joint Commission shall lay down its own procedures and establish such auxiliary bodies and administrative services as are necessary for the implementation of the Agreement. As a minimum, the Joint Commission shall also set up subcommittees on specific issues, including, but not limited to, environmental protection issues, exercise planning, operational issues, logistical, labour and legal issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u149	Thank you. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u150	Thank you for your answer, Minister. You have made it quite clear that the Party on Current Issues of the Agreement on the Use of the Joint Military Training Base in Novo Selo is the Ministry of Defence. I referred to the Secretary of Defense, and I received the assurance that we will make a joint visit to the area to make sure that what can be done is in place. Nevertheless, I am deeply impressed by the meetings I have with the residents of Gorno Alexandrovo, Mokren, Padarevo, about the gaps that have been allowed. I am confident that if our negotiators were more constructive, the American side would not mind doing the example of a sewage treatment plant that the villagers of Mokren and Padarevo want, or putting in some funds for reconstruction of a public building. It hurts most that the building in the village of Gorno Alexandrovo was destroyed. I believe that it is normal for residents around military bases to have better living conditions than the more distant villages, as they are not responsible for the fact that the state has entered into a contract for carrying out military exercises in the immediate vicinity of the villages. That is why I think that at some point I will contact you again with Minister Nenchev to seek your cooperation on what you said to the Joint Committee to come in and do the work, as this will also be in line with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you once again for the clarification you provided in your reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u151	Thank you. Do I have to do the doppelganger? No. We are moving on to the issue of the MP Georgi Bojinov on the North Atlantic Council's assessments of the political leadership of NATO, the situation in the Middle East and the position of the Republic of Bulgaria on this issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, dear Minister of Foreign Affairs! The North Atlantic Council is the NATO leadership body. The Council shall hold its high-level meetings with the participation of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Ministers of the Member States where necessary. The Allies have equal rights in expressing their opinion and decision. The NATO Military Committee acts under the political leadership of the Council and the NATO Secretary-General heads the North Atlantic Council and is its spokesman. After the Cold War, NATO assessed the world's situation and came to the conclusion, I quote: The world's situation is closely linked to security and stability in the Sredit region. In 1994, the Council established the so-called "mediterranean dialogue" and launched the operation "United Defender." A number of initiatives have also been launched. From this period, we can find the allegations that NATO's interest lies in the security and stability of this region, and to achieve these objectives all necessary means will be used. My question to you, Minister, as a participant in the North Atlantic Council, is: What is the Council's assessment of the reasons leading to the expansion of the crisis in the Middle East region, the refugee wave from this region and the consequences of all this? What are the views of overcoming the crisis and what is the position of Bulgaria, as its representative in this management body? What positions has the Bulgarian country exposed and defended in the NATO leadership body?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u153	Thank you. Here you are, Minister, for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u154	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bojinov, your question is meaningful, timely and extremely important. We won't be able to run out of three questions within the time I have. We have to say this for sure. The Middle East region borders NATO territory and is strategically important for the Alliance. Unfortunately, the length of conflicts that have spread there cannot be determined. Some countries in the region do not have the capacity to guarantee their national sovereignty and security in their own territory. The state institutions in these countries are poorly effective or not functioning at all, and the borders are underguarded. It's a blessing soil for extremism, violence and terrorism. Terrorist groups, especially ISIL, are increasing their influence on their controlled territories and improving their cooperation. In addition, ethnic and religious divisions among the population are deepening. The deterioration of security along with a number of long-standing socio-economic factors led to a large-scale migrant wave. Most migrants remain in the region, but hundreds of thousands have gone to Europe. The refugee crisis represents a serious and multidimensional challenge for all European countries. Beyond the security challenges, Europe also faces human tragedy. The crisis requires a comprehensive approach. All NATO member states contribute to resolving the crisis and mitigating its consequences through support for UN actions and those of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. Twenty-two NATO member states are also members of the European Union and are actively involved in the actions taken by the Union in this direction. The Alliance welcomes the European Union's efforts to develop a more effective and comprehensive approach to response to the crisis. As a NATO organisation, NATO is concentrating its efforts and resources towards overcoming the root causes of the crisis, which can be localized in refugee countries and supports the affected countries. The Alliance is assisting its partners in the region to build their own stability and security. At the NATO summit in Wales on 4th and 5th September 2014, support was decided to be given to the Republic of Iraq. Currently, 7 areas of possible NATO assistance have been identified as security and defence reform, support for the disposal of explosive devices and others approved by the Iraqi Government. The current situation threatens security in the southern direction of the Alliance, which also affects NATO's partner policy, which is currently aimed at deepening and expanding cooperation with the countries in the region in the form of the Mediterranean dialogue, and which is Algeria, Egypt, Israel, Jordan, Mauritania, Morocco and Tunisia, the Istanbul Cooperation Initiative, which includes Bahrain, Qatar, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates, the extension of the initiative to build defence capabilities, security assistance and defence of partner countries through training and other initiatives in this direction, which are key to the stability of the region and dealing with the root causes of the migration flow to which we are exposed. NATO is actively working with the countries of North Africa to increase capacity and capacity for internal stabilisation. Tunisia also joined the interoperability platform with the Alliance. Jordan was supported by the Alliance within the framework of NATO's scientific programme "Science for Peace and Security," to improve the country's cyber defence. A package was also developed to assist Jordan in building its defence and security capacity. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Addressing the root causes is the only possible solution in the long term to ensure peace and security in North Africa, the Middle East and Afghanistan. I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u155	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I've given you a little more time since it's a conceptual issue. Then you will complete the answer. Mr. Bozhilov, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u156	Dear Minister, my question was raised a few weeks ago, and after yesterday's Prime Minister's statement, under which I sign, it has other dimensions. Yesterday, the Prime Minister of Bulgaria said: "We need to review the behaviour of the European Union and NATO. Let's see if our foreign policy has always been adequate and whether what we have done has brought the expected results. The question is how deep, basic and hypocritical this revision should be. I will allow myself to quote you three sentences, and I have therefore indicated how important NATO Secretary-General has been since those years when these operations were taking place. Then Mr Rasmussen at the Forum for New Diplomacy says, I quote: "If NATO and the countries of the region had not acted, we would have witnessed bloodshed and an end to the liberation movements in Libya. However, we would like to see the colors of the Arab Spring and a region free of... I'm not going to evaluate those words. I'll call them romantic utopism. We need a profound change, Minister, in the ability to assess the situation, to define the objectives, the way they are pursued, overcoming the various interests of NATO members, sometimes accompanied by dualism. Certainly, something must be done immediately to stop funding this terrible group, for which NATO has both resources and responsibility to the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u157	Here you are for your coat, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u158	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bojinov, I will sign your words. I know you were sincere. This is in our national interest and, of course, in the interests of the North Atlantic community, whose members we are. I'll continue my answer, and if I have some time left, I'll say a few more words. The benefit for NATO of support for the countries I listed in North Africa, the Middle East is also in increasing the stability of the region, without the Alliance having to have powers there. Discussions on border protection, migration, quotas have the nature of a civil problem and are part of the European Union's agenda. NATO's role in preventing such crises is by deterring the circumstances favouring their emergence, which includes military co-operation with partners to build their capabilities. Bilaterally, all NATO allies also participate in the United States-led global coalition to fight the Islamic State. The effectiveness of the coalition so far is due to the interoperability achieved within NATO and an important priority in relations between both allies and partners. The experience gained in Afghanistan during the ISAF mission can be applied in the coalition for the fight against ISIL. The Republic of Bulgaria contributes to strengthening the security, stable and sustainable development of the countries of these regions. In 2014, in accordance with the Decree of the Council of Ministers No 289, Bulgaria provided the Government of the Republic of Iraq with military assistance in the form of light weapons, ammunition, a total of 235 tonnes, worth about 3 million. Euros. The assistance was determined on the basis of the surplus available for the Bulgarian Army weapons and ammunition, in accordance with the demands of the Kurdish security forces. For its part, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs financed, within the framework of international development cooperation, a project to increase the administrative capacity of the police of the Republic of Iraq to acquire knowledge and skills in the field of border control and management of migration processes, as well as a project to increase the administrative capacity of Afghan police officers, to improve knowledge and skills in the field of migration flow management and in the field of combating the proliferation of narcotic drugs in the course of implementation. The two projects were implemented by the Ministry of Interior and totaled nearly 110 thousand. lv. and their realization is a contribution to promoting democratic processes in both countries. If I may, one more sentence. For many years the North Atlantic Alliance had the feeling and our citizens had the feeling that we were shaping the world around us. Now, however, the situation is different. Now all our citizens feel that the world is shaping us. We must respond to our citizens' demands to regain control of the situation and begin to control the processes again. Otherwise, we will not be able to respond adequately to the challenges in today's context, which is extremely dynamic. Walk in this direction, and in this direction are the conversations that are being held during the Vienna Process, you know, with regard to Syria. The balance between finding a diplomatic solution and adequate military action is difficult to limit the spread of radical ideologies and the taking over of more territory by groups such as "Daesh."Go that way and, of course, we need to re-evaluate what we have done so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u159	Thank you for your answer, Minister. There is a question for you from the People's Representative Mihail Mikov concerning reasons for a proposal for the award of the Universal Patriarch Bartholomew I with the Order of the Old Mountains. Here you are, Mr. Mikov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, dear Minister! For me, this order has been awarded in violation of the law. I have not found a decision of the National Assembly or a decision of the Council of Ministers...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 11 of the Law. For the Bulgarian citizens, the person to whom this order was given was unworthy and they declared it powerfully in connection with his scandalous behavior in Sofia on his visit, when he allowed himself to treat the Bulgarian exarch Antim in an absolutely faithless manner, who, apart from being the first Bulgarian exarch to give independence to the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, was the Chairman of the Constitutional Assembly and the first Grand National Assembly. I allow myself to ask you the question: what are the extremely great merit to Bulgaria, due by law, of titles for Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew? What are these merits that give you reason to initiate such a procedure, although it does not develop according to the law's order? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u161	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u162	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mikov, the original proposal for the award of the Universal Patriarch Bartholomew I was made by the President of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences Akad. Stefan Vodenicharov to the Council of Ministers by letter of August this year. The same was forwarded by the acting Secretary-General to the Council of Ministers of Culture, who in turn sent him by competence to me. In accordance with art. 11, para. 3 of the Orders and Medals Act in the Republic of Bulgaria offers for the award of foreign citizens with orders and medals are made by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Period! Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew is a citizen of the Republic of Turkey and, under the provision cited, the formal proposal for his award to the President of the Republic can only be made by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. In this regard, he was proposed for awards with the Order of the Old Mountains, first degree, with my letter to the President Mr. Plevneliev on 3 November this year with the following main reasons: First of all, his active position on promoting religious dialogue between individual denominations of Christianity and between Christianity and other major world religions. Second, his commitment to the current problems of political and economic nature before humanity. Third, the involvement of the Orthodox discourse in the social problems of our surrounding world. Fourth, his professional dedication to scientific work, which Bartholomew I not only reduced to theology, but to a much wider range of scientific directions. Fifthly, his strong commitment to environmental protection won him the name Green Patriarch. I would like to draw attention to the fact that these reasons highlight the merits of Patriarch Bartholomew I as a spiritual leader and a public figure of international importance and fall into the second hypothesis of the legal text of art. 4, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on the Orders and Medals of the Republic of Bulgaria, namely for the development of international cooperation, the strengthening of security and peace between the peoples, as well as for the protection of human rights and freedom. For the answer, I will say this: Bulgarian institutions cannot control what Patriarch Bartholomew has in mind to say when he comes to Bulgaria. I have already expressed my disagreement with the fact that he asked for things that are not within his competence. This is an interstate relationship between Bulgaria and Greece, determined in the 1960s and in no way constitutes a sphere in which it has any competence, but this does not cancel the motives that you have just heard.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u163	Thank you, Minister Mitov. Mr. Mikov, you have an opportunity for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! I wonder how to comment that the Foreign Ministry does not know the fact that the same person has banned the service in Bulgarian on Easter this year in the church of St. George. St. Konstantin and Elena. He has not allowed a Bulgarian bishop to serve Bulgarian and has set conditions for the removal of the monument of Antim I. All Bulgaria knows it! Only our Foreign Ministry doesn't know that! It's shameful and disgraceful! I don't know if it's green, if it's brown, if it's some other color, this guy, but he's unworthy and he can't offer the Foreign Office. I pay attention to you once again when you read the Law............................................................................................ 3, to read the second paragraph, which explicitly says that without a decision of the Council of Ministers or of the National Assembly, you cannot be honoured with the highest title, with the highest Bulgarian order. You can't! Therefore, I say that this order is illegal and I call on the Bulgarian citizens, the Thracians, on 29 December, at 12:00. On the occasion of the 127th anniversary of the death of Ekzarh Antim, let us offer flowers to the monument of Antim I in the courtyard of the Adrianople church. St. Konstantin and Elena, as a sign of the Bulgarian people against any commercial mediators who come to Bulgaria. A Turkish citizen is going to negotiate our relationship with the Greek state?! This is insolence, and this insolence did not only manifest itself on his visit. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This is a recurring insolence that offends Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u165	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, you have an opportunity for a duplicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u166	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mikov, I do not know how you concluded that the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry does not know the things you have just listed. Yes, we do. We know them very well. [[Reply from MP Mihail Mikov.]] Wait a minute. Just because we know something does not mean that we do not care about the idea of Bulgarian properties in Istanbul and elsewhere being cared for, which are in the Diocese of the Ecumenical Patriarch. I've already read your motives. They have nothing to do with what you're saying. Nothing, nothing. So when we talk about some type of attempt to draw closer positions, the Bulgarian state has done what is needed. And you need some kind of reconciliation. And the fact that humility is denied by the other side does not make the Bulgarian state bad in this case. That, on the one hand. Second of all, you're wrong here. We have the right to reward with orders the way it's done. It's all legal. There are precedents during the Oresharski government. Look back and you'll see. I'll give you...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u167	And they're illegal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u168	Oh, that's not true again, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u169	Please don't get into a debate with the questioner.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u170	In conclusion, I'd like to say this, I've said it before. What has been done and agreed with all institutions. So, the Minister of Foreign Affairs by law is obliged to offer motives and formal suggestions, but before that we have agreed both the motives and the act itself with all the other institutions, including the Secretariat of the Holy Synod.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u171	Thank you, Mr. Mitov, for the backdrop and the answers in today's parliamentary control. That was the last question for you. Have a good day! We'll continue with the next series of questions. They are addressed to Mr. Todor Tanev, Minister of Education and Science. The first question will be asked by the MP Dimitar Delchev on the Concept for the development of specialized institutions for children in conflict with the law. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! In the programme of the government is the reform of the issue of child justice. As you know, on the issue of child justice, there is a law that is very old from 1958. We believe that the system and the legal base is unsuitable to the current conditions. The questions about child justice concern both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Education, which also has commitments to this activity. As you well know, the Ministry of Education directs the specialized pedagogical boarding schools (SPS) and the Educational Schools (VUI) who have a commitment to educate and socialize the children who have entered at some point in conflict with the law or in some way violated status-specific norms. The last few weeks I have had the opportunity to visit a lot of SPIs and VIIs as are their abbreviations, and my observations are that the children there do not meet the conditions they have achieved in education. What do I mean? Let's say, children with a form of education, that is, with a level of education, the fifth grade, who have reached fifth grade, are in fact illiterate, cannot read and cannot write. This is a big problem because, on the other hand, teachers and educators in these boarding schools have an obligation to apply the curricula assigned by the Ministry of Education and Science for children who have completed fifth grade. Therefore, they learn English, teach any other subject they do not actually understand for the simple reason that they are basically illiterate. Some of the children even copied the letters because they had to copy them, and they didn't actually copy them, but they repainted them, which is a serious problem. In other words, with regard to these children, there must be obviously some different, individualized approach. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] My question is this: is the Ministry of Education and Science a concept for the development of these SPIs and VIIs? Is there expected to be a change in the curriculum in the SPI and VI, with regard to the special needs of the children in them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u173	Thank you, dear Mr. Delchev. Mr. Minister Tanev, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u174	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I specifically followed, Mr. Delchev, preparing the answer to your question. Therefore it is a little longer and I will present the text in writing, because really the work is very deep enough. We have a road map, which dates back to 2013, for a plan to close the socio-pedagogical boarding schools. At the moment, not in the Ministry of Education, but in the Ministry of Justice is established a working group where there are representatives of the Ministry of Education and other institutions and ministries for the change of this road map, because it appears to be insufficient base, not to say small, about what we care about. It's about access to justice, the right to justice for minors. So thank you for this question. It raises another, bigger question. You've been around these schools. I have reports that there are four that there are 139 students in them, that in two socio-pedagogical boarding schools there are 76 students, but even if there was one, he is entitled to the corresponding treatment. It is said that many of them come from homes for children deprived of parental care. Some of the residents have psychological and mental problems. But that's not an excuse for the attitude that's being demonstrated to them. The checks and visits made in the preparation of your answer you know how long ago you asked this question, I am sorry, I have been and I am still sick, show that there are enough violations and omissions in the work and functioning of these boarding schools related not only to the level of the educational process, but also to the insufficient capacity of the staff and non-specific functions for which the Ministry is responsible. We are waiting for the reform of justice for children to become a fact, but nevertheless I have ordered today at 2:00 will be the first meeting, a group that will pay particular attention so that we can give the group, which is in the Ministry of Justice, what they would expect of us, what we can help with in the end, so that the money under the Operational Programme can go in this direction to these students. We have to shut down these schools right now. They're not really schools. It doesn't have an educational or educational effect. Thank you again for this question. I leave the longer answer to you. We'll be in touch, I repeat, and if one was the child, we don't have the right to be treated like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u175	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u176	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for your commitment to the subject, too, because it is really important. In fact, speaking with people from the Ministry of Justice and specifically with judges responsible for these measures, and people from the committees who send children to the SPI and VU, they largely avoid sending them to these boarding schools because they do not believe in their educational capacity, which is the essential problem. To a large extent, and that is why there are few children in these boarding schools because alternative measures are being sought that can be better applied to the child. In fact, if the boarding schools perform their function properly, I suppose the children will be more, and the result of this activity will be better. So my question is, do you consider, within the Ministry of Education, when you propose to the Ministry of Justice that these CVMs should be outside the education system in some of the other systems of justice and labour and social policy, or God knows who, or do you think they can stay under the hat of the Ministry of Education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u177	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Mr. Minister, would you like a duplicate? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u178	At this point, I can only say my opinion, as the group is yet to meet on these issues. I think the situation is such that they should remain with the Ministry of Education.. no matter that there are additional, specific functions that are not typical for the other 2500 schools in Bulgaria. So much capacity and especially in the presence of a financial resource that comes to the Ministry, there can easily be. Of course, these children will need some kind of institutionalization and synchronization of interaction with other ministries, I refer first of all to the Ministry of Interior. However, in any case, it is not typical for other ministries to care for education and education. So my answer is: we are going in this direction to stay under the hat of the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u179	Thanks for the douche bag, Mr. Secretary. The next question to you is from the National Representative. Stanislav Stanilov regarding the discrepancy between the criteria of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency and its European partners. Professor Stanilov, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! The European Polytechnic University, which is known to the public and as Pernik University, put the work of the National Assessment and Accreditation Agency to a serious test. In 2014 NAOA refused programme accreditation of each of the seven majors at the university. On this basis, the Ministry of Education and Science did not confirm the acceptance for the past school year. The NSA stated that they required a number of recommendations to be implemented before changing their opinion. The European Polytechnic University refused to implement the NAOA recommendations and sought the opportunity to be evaluated in another European country. In the autumn of this year, Pernik announced that they had received full accreditation from the German agency Asquin in the town of Bayroyt. Both NAOA and Asquin are part of the network of European accreditation agencies, which should apply the same criteria in their work. The constant gap between the two assessments raised the need to check whether the same criteria were applied in the specific procedure, whether information was used equally in volume and content, or whether there were gaps in the Bulgarian legislation. In this regard, I ask you to answer me what is the reason for the various assessments given by the NAOA and the agency in the town of Bayroyt, and what measures will you take to prevent such discrepancies? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u181	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. Mr. Minister, you have an answer in three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u182	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Stanilov! In general, the diploma for higher education is to be stamped with the Bulgarian state crest, which makes these diplomas real after compliance with the legal requirements of the Bulgarian laws. The results of the evaluation and accreditation are relevant in forming the state's policy towards higher schools. We must not doubt that the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency has independence and transparency. They are not units of the Ministry of Education, have autonomy, they are with the Council of Ministers and, as far as we can tell, invite competent scientists, including Bulgarian and foreign experts, to participate in accreditation. At the same time NAOA the Bulgarian Agency, this year confirmed the participation in the European Association for Quality Insurance ENQA after some changes that were made. We know about this other agency, the German agency, which we do not know in detail enough. I was informed by the president of Pernik University in this direction. A copy of what they received from the German agency was given. However, it is important to emphasise the provision of art. 88a, para. 3 of the Law on Higher Education, which is currently in operation the assessment of the relevant procedures at the invitation of a Bulgarian higher school can be carried out by foreign agencies, members of the European Association for Quality assurance in Higher Education and/or registered in the European Register of Agencies, i.e. this is legal accreditation. However, the evaluation by a foreign agency is not identical, under the Higher Education Act, with the accreditation that provides the right of the higher school to conduct training and to issue a diploma for higher education with a stamp and state crest. That is, there is a certain discrepancy and in the National Assembly we must make this relevant amendment to the Law, which, by the way, has been submitted to the National Assembly and passed at first reading in order not to have this gap between diploma and accreditation. As far as the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency is concerned, my own opinion is that regardless of the quality of the scientists who fall into the accreditation processes, the number of universities, the number of different faculties from which the public does not need, but who are found and obtained accreditation, is due precisely to the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency. And nobody else's! In the past years. And I'm gonna say one more thing. There is no transparency in who and how creates groups and lists of groups that go to evaluate and accreditation. I mean, we don't have transparency here. Therefore, that must change.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u183	Thank you, dear Minister in the back you can develop your answer if you need it. Professor Stanilov's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u184	You said there was no transparency here, and I agree with you. I've had constant criticisms or remarks to the National Assessment and Accreditation Agency for a long time since I was a member. However, the problem is whether ACQUIN has transparency. The problem is whether the parameters of the material submitted for accreditation, i.e. the requirements that have been submitted for accreditation at the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency, and those that have been submitted to ACQUIN, are the same. The doubt is that the gap comes from there. I would like to express, how can I say, a wish, the Ministry of Education wrote a letter to ACQUIN and asked them for a copy of the documentation that the university in question has submitted with its accreditation. Then the Ministry could compare the two materials and if they differ, ask for responsibility from the management of Pernik University. If they don't get away with it, that means the ball is in the field of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency. What you are telling me is true that our Agency is not subject to our Ministry, but it is subordinate to the Council of Ministers. In this sense, I could ask the President of the Council of Ministers a question that would be legitimate. I am not sure whether the President of the National Assembly will allow such a thing, perhaps he will refer the matter to you again. In this session there is no second time to ask a question, but nevertheless in the next session I will ask a similar question. This question, Minister, is of the opinion that it needs to be cleared because it is true what you said about the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency. I don't like this place as a term. There is really no order in the higher schools in Bulgaria and perhaps there should be some changes in the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency, as well as in the legislation. Upset by my question, the Chairman of the National Assessment and Accreditation Agency turned through the Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to me... wanted to talk to me instead of calling me on the phone he has, I do not know why he did it through the Chairman, for this reason I did not call and did not call. And it's not my job to control the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] One moment, Mr. Chairman, I'm coming. The problem is again there, and I ask you really... I ask you to clear this issue with desire. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u185	Thanks for the line. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u186	Mr. Chairman, I'm very grateful to you. Stanilov, I didn't mean the current management of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency. These are mistakes that have been piling up for many years. In this sense, given that the criteria of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency comply with those of the ENQA, it may be necessary to verify the true compliance of the German Agency with the European criteria. I will therefore order the Department of Higher Education to ask this question, as you have suggested. We will accept this proposal, we will move the issue forward, and I hope, in the near future, before the next session, I will give you the answer. Because he is alive interested not only in the MPs, but also in the entire academic community. Thank you very much for that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u187	Thank you, dear Minister. There is a third, final question for you about today's parliamentary control and he is from the National Representative Ivan Stankov on the application of the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in Bulgaria. Professor Stankov, order the stand to formulate your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u188	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is a little bit like artillery training in relation to the forthcoming adoption of the Bill on the Development of the Academic Board. I considered it necessary in advance before the Bill entered the Chamber, to put some questions that I did not see included in it, and they are very important. Our academic community appreciates that we have such a Law that the unnecessary structures have been removed, that the procedures have been simplified. However, along with this, some serious problems arose and the ratio between habilitated and unhabilitated lecturers was broken, very recently and even we set a world record in growth, in the habilitation of the staff. The defense of major dissertations has been greatly reduced, the so-called major dissertations. All this led to devaluation of these academic positions acquired in this way. We have some serious problems, and I'm telling you as head of an institution, things from the kitchen, because we didn't find in the proposal, which many times we have made, some solution in this proposal for the chief assistants, about the procedures that need to be implemented. Because after defending doctoral dissertations, once such heavy requirements have been set under the so-called doctoral minimum, to take exams, why do they have to take the exam again to become chief assistants? That's inexplicable. Young colleagues are very excited and bothered by this. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The question I want to ask you is: what measures will the Ministry of Education and Science take to overcome the problems arising from the gaps of the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber? Will a Single National Framework be drawn up, I know that one will be drawn up, and will there be a regulatory body dealing with the issues at issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u189	Thank you, Professor. Stankov. Dear Minister Tanev, you have the opportunity to give an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u190	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Prof. Stankov! Your answer is one.. the care of the Ministry was and remains to develop and submit a bill, although there were wonderful and there are them, they are as example of Prof. Stanilov. The one that was imported by the Ministry because without touching it, the law will not be able to correct the proposal that you ask me can no longer be applied in this way. We're champions not exactly in habilitation, but in professors. It's even worse, I want to tell you. In this sense, there are no two opinions that, firstly, the Law had to exist because it liberalized the system. But, on the other hand, let us not confuse liberalisation with something else that is not good for the whole system. That is why we have introduced a softer option, but it is still envisaged to apply minimum national requirements to applicants for the acquisition of the scientific degree. The minimum national requirements must be defined as eligibility requirements. The Minister has the right to participate to see if everything was as it should have been in the procedures. As members of the scientific jury are selected habilitated persons from Bulgarian universities with achievements in the relevant scientific community, where possible from the respective direction. Another new moment is the possibility for the Minister of Education to exercise control during the procedures and in relation to the eligibility of candidates with regard to the compliance of their achievements with the minimum national requirements. It is also particularly important to create an electronic database for individuals who have acquired a scientific degree in higher schools and scientific organizations in Bulgaria. These and other suggestions of the Ministry will probably prove sufficient to eliminate the need for another regulatory authority similar to the VAC, because through these measures, without prejudice to the basic principles of academic autonomy, we hope to increase the quality of academic staff in scientific production in the Republic of Bulgaria. I would like to conclude that other measures have been discussed other than those laid down. Provided that these do not work well enough and it turns out that there are leaks and leaks in the system again, nothing prevents them from being introduced further. There's no perfect law. Even the American Constitution, which according to the textbook is referred to as the best law, I doubt that, but still, it has twenty-something amendments. We'd like to check with less medication to see if we have enough effect.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u191	Thank you, Minister Tanev. A line? Professor. Stankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your answers, Minister. We have some very serious problems, which I insist we seek solutions together. Very often this happens: a jury of five for doctoral dissertations or seven for habilitations all give positive reviews, there are positive opinions. The next procedure comes the Research or Faculty Council and there is sometimes a negative vote. The problem immediately arises: who should judge the rightness and legality of this procedure that has passed? There's no one. As rector, all I can do is issue or not issue a diploma or a certificate. The decisions are always sought through the court. The need for such a body to rule is very great and we insist that this thing exists. It happens very often and vice versa. These are problems that really need a solution. We must also simplify the procedure for chief assistant. It is inexplicable after some universities take an entrance and appointment exam as an assistant, a doctoral minimum, three times appearing in the specialty, which is simply insane. We believe that it is pointless and we will make an offer to drop it. That there is a Single National Framework is very good, I welcome it. There are some other things we will propose when the bill is discussed. Thank you for what you're doing. We're counting on a working Law on the development of the academic staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u193	Thank you. Would you like a duplicate, Minister Tanev? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u194	Thanks for understanding it's not easy. I've passed all these exams, and I never asked if I should have, or shouldn't have. I've defended myself, including a major doctorate and so on. However, it seems to me that the work of the National Assembly at second reading will be just this to add the things that the MPs believe should be done. We will support with a deep understanding what you would present here after your discussions... we are ready for this. We've discussed less solid options. But let's put the laws one after the other. The law on higher education is the leading one and much depends on what will fall into it. Faculties and faculty councils are still being held for the main structural unit of universities at least, which is a nonsense from the point of view that its members' IQ is very high. Since they are representatives of various specialities, they do not understand enough of the smallest details of the individual curriculum or the scientific jury. If this national pool of scientists is anonymous, where to choose at random, it will certainly decrease the number of superpositive reviews of people with whom the candidate is known. That is to say, it can be considered, without returning VACs, simply giving the scientific community the opportunity to work and it can determine everything, including with such mechanisms as anonymity.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-20.u195	Thank you, dear Minister. That was your last answer for today. Thank you for your participation in the parliamentary control. This was actually the last issue of parliamentary control for today. Honourable Members, the next plenary session will be extraordinary on 24 November 2015, Tuesday, at 11.00 p.m. I am adjourning today's plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
