ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on the basis of art. 50, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose as a point. 1 in today's plenary session to discuss and vote draft decision amending the decision of the National Assembly of 10 July 2013 on the election of the governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. On yesterday, the draft decision was submitted by a group of MPs. It relates to the adopted decision of the National Assembly with the rules of procedure for the election of the governor of the National Health Insurance Fund and the previous decision of the National Assembly that Mrs. Todorova's term of office expires on 12 February. In order to solve the problem of legitimate implementation of the functions of governor until the election by the National Assembly of a new such governor, it is necessary to adopt the decision that I propose to be like this. 1 on today's agenda, and then we will continue with the debates on the draft amendments to the Penal Code. Voting mode. Vote 164 MPs: 145 against 11, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO CHANGE THE DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 10 JULY 2013 ON THE COLLECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT OF THE NATIONAL HEALTH AND HEALTH CARA. On behalf of the importers, the draft decision will be presented by Mrs Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention: "Project" DECISION amending Decision of the National Assembly of 10 July 2013 on the election of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with a decision of the National Assembly on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and procedure for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly adopted on 18 February 2015, HAS DECIDED 1. He amended a decision of the National Assembly of 10 July 2013 on the election of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, promulgated in the State Gazette. 62 of 2013, p. 1 the words "February 12, 2015" shall be replaced by the words "election of a new governor of the National Health Insurance Fund." 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the day of its adoption.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u3	Thank you. Debates are open. He has the word Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! Where were we and what happened in 48 hours?! Just 48 hours ago, you were explaining to us how there was absolutely no problem. Here three former health committee presidents explained that there was no problem. A lawyer explained that it was okay. Another colleague blamed me for not being able to count to 24, and apparently he spent two days on the phone to calculate that 14 plus 5 plus 3 is a little bit more than next week's election. Exactly 48 hours ago, you said it was okay. Meanwhile, on Wednesday evening, a meeting of the supervision of the Cashier was held, where, you see, they even tried to vote to assign the manager or the governor to continue their functions. Thank God they didn't raise votes, because then there would really be wrongdoing. A letter was sent to the Health Commission, which at yesterday's meeting, although we raised the question, no one provided us and no one explained it to us. Once again, parliament post-factum needs to correct someone's mistakes, because I recall Dr. Todorova sent two letters as early as last week. At pò the previous Health Commission meeting I raised the question myself when I was answered by the President of the Commission and the Minister that there were no problems with the National Health Insurance Fund. Now, once again, Parliament has to lubricate something that we see repeatedly, especially when GERB rules. [[GERB line: "Come on, come on! "]] We also remember how postfactum had to vote the two million of the German firm. We even remember trying very quickly the other day to vote on a loan. [[GERB loud noise]] after the post-factum ranking of the banks that will carry out... [[GERB's reply: "Search! "]] There's plenty of time. Don't worry. Finally, fellow Members, who will take political responsibility for this complete carelessness? Political responsibility! The Minister of Health has exactly two deputy ministers in the supervision of the Casa. It's absurd not to know, even if he's quick to chase the ratings that he's already caught up with the gold standard. He should know the term is running out. The Minister of Finance, whose deputy Chair of Oversight, should also know that the term of office is running out. There are colleagues from the 40th Parliament who wrote this bill. They should remember that the term is running out. I don't want to believe that it's really going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and Finally, one specific question: are you sure that with this decision we are legally accurate? What do I mean? Dr. Todorova's contract expired on the 12th. Here in the Decision it says that the contract is continued from the date of adoption of the Decision. The contract is continuing. Understand, it is important. It is true that colleagues here like to talk with 1 billion per minute. But let's not forget that the monthly payments of the National Health Insurance Fund are over 200 million. The National Health Insurance Fund has contractual partners.. tens of thousands. One of them starts suing, you know how you imagine it's really gonna block the system?! My question is: who will bear the political responsibility? And are we sure that legal things are accurate?! After all, it's the 12th, and today it's the 20th, there's an 8-day break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u5	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I respect Dr. Raynov's opinion, and I will say even more about his arguments. I'll even agree with the edifying tone. Indeed, in the last days regarding this case many things have been said on both sides, I am talking about the two opposite sides. This debate also involved the leadership of the Committee on Health, not to forget the Minister of Health. Each of its own aspects had its reasons, had its arguments and, from their point of view, the relevant opinion. Indeed, I admit, it is a temptation for us, too, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms with unprincipled opposition to further fueling the subject, to say further words in unison with what Dr. Raynov said. But it is precisely with regard to this decision that my opinion is, it is an opinion shared with my parliamentary group that there must be a state-owned approach, that we must, in accordance with the challenge we have before this surprising case, make an adequate decision. I just congratulated Dr. Daritkova on this proposal. In view of this, the concerns and concerns of all sectors which will suffer from the lack of signatures and legitimization of the relevant procedures in the NHIF, which is why I call on everyone to support this decision. This decision will practically mean that as early as Monday, Dr. Rumyana Todorova can sign the pharmacies, which were due on February 19th, to receive their money and then the sick. We need to abstract the temptations from time to time to be on one side of the subject, to be opposition or ruling, and the moment that is proposed by this decision is precisely this. Thank you for your attention. I call on everyone to support the movement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u7	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! Yes, there has indeed been a precedent, but our responsibility as MPs today is to support this decision. The Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front will support the proposals made. I propose that all MPs, as responsible politicians, vote because we will really give the opportunity not to set a precedent in the health system. We're going to vote on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u9	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Speaking, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u10	Thank you, Madam President. My speech is also in the form of a question. On the basis of that decision, Supervision should enter into a management contract. My question is: Is supervision legitimate because they are chosen at the same time? Do not turn out that the future contract, which will be concluded by Oversight, will also not produce its legal effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u11	The line is Mrs. Tsacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u12	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Popov, I was going to stick to the tone Dr. Kardzhaliev set and not go into detail. But since you very strongly asked what would happen to the contract "The exact contract signed by Mrs. Todorova after the decision of the National Assembly for her election in 2013 contains a clause that she will perform the functions of governor of the National Health Insurance Fund until the election of a new one by the National Assembly. Check it out. You have competent colleagues in your group who are aware of this. That's where the problem started. Let us not be clear, because until last week, the Supervisory Board and the Cassata claimed that there was no problem, as her contract was until the election of a new governor. I'm answering your specific question. The Cashier should not sign, the Cashier's Supervisory Board should sign a new contract, because it already has such a contract and this decision, instead of the date of February 12, we merely align it with the clauses of the already existing and signed contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u13	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsacheva. Any other lines? Mr. Popov's denture? There's not gonna be a duvet. Any other speeches? [[National Representative Diana Yordanova wants the floor for procedure.]] There are no other speeches. I'm closing the debate. We are voting for a draft decision amending a decision of the National Assembly of 10 July 2013 on the election of a governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. Vote 164 MPs: 157 against 6, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u14	Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u15	Mr. Chairman, please, on the grounds of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to extend the deadline for proposals by Members of the National Assembly under the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Markets in Financial Instruments, No 502-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 January 2015 by another seven days or the total deadline for proposals to be 14 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. A reverse opinion? I won't. Please vote on the proposal made by the National Representative Diana Yordanova. Vote 153 MPs: 142 against 1, abstention 10. The proposal to extend the deadline has been accepted. Second procedure please, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u17	Thank you. On the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to extend the deadline for proposals by MPs under the Deposit Guarantee Bill in Banks, No 402-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 November 2014, by another seven days or the total deadline for proposals to be 14 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u18	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made to increase the deadline. Vote 146 MPs: 140 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We continue with our program: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAWS FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE PUNISHING CODEX. On behalf of the importers yesterday, the six bills for amending and supplementing the Penal Code were reported. The reports from the committees to which the bills have been allocated have been read. Since the time remaining until the end of the plenary day was short, I think there has been a proposal from Mr Chukolov to continue the debate in today's plenary session. I open the debates on the six bills to amend and supplement the Penal Code. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who are willing to take part in this matter. For a statement, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u19	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will make a statement regarding the Bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, which was tabled by a group of MPs from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. The issue concerns the dropping of statute of limitations on crimes committed during the communist regime. This is a topic that has accompanied the entire transition and so far because of the lack of political will this fundamental problem of our newest state has not been solved fairly. Let us recall that one of the objectives of the Constitution, which was adopted at the beginning of the transition, was to achieve justice in the country. It is precisely the problem of justice that is at stake in the decision that the Assembly will take on this topic. However, the question is: how much did this theme proposed by our colleagues from the DPS come out of their hearts and souls, how sincere are they in their intention, how much moral right do they have to want this thing? Because the issue of limitation is a question related to the suffering of many Bulgarian citizens who have fallen under the blows of the totalitarian state. In order to be objective and at the same time to have sufficient factual grounds to draw my conclusions, I will remind those of you who have not followed developments, or rather political metamorphosis, which the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has experienced during its political existence here in the National Assembly. I will start with a distant time. The time when the Bulgarian Constitution was voted. Then, honourable members of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, in this particular Constitution is a text which creates problems with the suspension of limitation, precisely for these crimes. There in art. 5, para. The current Constitution states: "No one can be condemned for action or inaction, which has not been declared by the law.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. [[Noise and lines on the left.]] To remind those of you who were young children and did not follow the political processes that there was a group of MPs, the 39 who left and did not want to vote at all on this Constitution. Do you know what the Movement for Rights and Freedoms was then? It was not present at the vote itself. If they had a really serious ambition and political intention not to vote on such a text in the Constitution, they had to debate, they had to accept what was done in Germany, because it was the law that ruled, which acted during a totalitarian regime. Is it legal that some crimes that are crimes within the meaning of universal human understanding of crimes were not then written in this Crime Act? Could this be a law on which to set such a heavy norm in the Constitution? There were a lot of good lawyers there. Then why didn't they complain? Because that is precisely what has been done in Germany, because in Germany it is said that what was right during the totalitarian regime cannot be right, it is not a universal human right, it is a totalitarian right imposed by a totalitarian power and a state. I'm moving on. When I was a Member of the National Assembly at the Thirty Eighth National Assembly, there was a symbolic vote on April 26, 2000. I say "sakkovo" because it is so symbolic and important that so far no political power has dared to challenge it, even though it has been subjected to too serious criticism. Then the law was passed, according to which the communist regime was declared criminal. Do you know what the Movement for Rights and Freedoms did then? By the way, at the time his agent's name was the Unification of National Salvation........................ that is how it was hidden in that National Assembly. Do you know what Mr. Ahmed Dogan is doing then, Mr. Lutvi Mestan?! Then, together with the BSP group, they are silent.. they are not in the debate on this extremely important bill. Notice, in this bill, which declares the communist regime criminal, there is an extremely strong member who solves their problem and for which they did not only speak but were guiltyly silent somewhere in the couloirs of the Assembly together with their friends from BSP. I'm reading to you who this article is. 2, p. 2 of the Law on the Declaration of the Communist regime as a criminal, says: "A systematic violation of fundamental human rights, such as suppression of entire groups of the population, divided by political, social, religious or ethnic terms. " You didn't want this text to become a law, you kept silent with yours, as we will see later, strategic partners from BSP! Let me remind you what happened at the time the first Law on Files was passed. This happened on December 12, 2000. Then at first reading the first Law on the files was voted on in the Thirty-eighth National Assembly. Do you know what happens then? They are here, they are voting for. I congratulate them, only their leader Ahmed Dogan is absent with a terrible weight, he is absent symbolically, he disagrees with this legislation. Because with Ahmed Dogan things aren't simple, they're symbolic, and since he wasn't there during the vote on this important bill, it's something very serious. As now, when the Law on limitation is being proposed, the DPS group is again symbolically missing Lutvi Mestan. There's no Mr. Lutvi Mestan! I'm reminding you of what's going on next. In 2001, the Law on Files was voted on at second reading. Do you know how they vote? Half of it depends on the situation. Moreover, at the first opportunity they open at the time of Simeon Saxe-Coburg, they are the first to vote against this law, which supposedly regulates their issues. I'm saying this because it's very important that you understand what these people are and what they really want. Now, something that happened a few months ago in the past National Assembly "The MPs of GERB had the dignity to propose an amendment which concerned precisely this problem. It was introduced by the MPs of GERB on behalf of Mrs. Gemma Grozdanova and several votes were held. The first vote took place on 18 June 2014. Praisedly, all of the DPS 23 MPs voted on this day for.................... for which I thank them......................................................................... However, one night of reflection, one night of internal struggles and battles, perhaps political, in some of their partners, and on June 19th, that is, the next morning, because the day before BSP left and the quorum fell, the next day the proposal was again introduced by Mrs. Gemma Grozdanova on June 19th, for a vote. Now listen to what's happening. A single lady comes true to what the voters sent her here for, and her name is Ferihan Iliyazova Ahmedova. This lady has always voted on the issue of entering parliament. But what are her friends from the DPS doing? Twenty-one of the DPS refrain from this vote, which is one day after the first. It seems that the people of GERB then were worried that these people from DPS did not understand what they were doing and were doing a second vote. The first vote was at 9:11 p.m., the second one was on the same day "June 19th," at 9:13 p.m. And, notice, there has been a development! Mrs. Ferryhan Ilyazova continues to be for which I congratulate her, but Ramadan Bajram Atalay, known as Agent Virgil, voted. Listen well, the voters of the DPS............................. are entering a bill under which the history of communist crimes must fall. Otherwise, the others are in the same choir as the abstentions. Fellow Members of the National Assembly, doing trade with the grief of the people, with what they have experienced, is a patent of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. This is not a moral position, this is not a suffered position, this is the position of interest: Then we make money! However, when we are in opposition, we will fight for the morality and rights of our constituents. Now a little statistic. From November 10, 1989 to the day of the 304 months of transition. Three hundred and four months of transition! Do you know how long these 304 months the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has been in power? One hundred and forty-nine months! I'm reminiscing. From 8 November 1991 to 30 December 1991 An important partner in Philip Dimitrov's government; from December 1992 to October 1994 From July 2001 to August 2005, the DPS is a partner of the NDSV with the government of Simeon Saxe-Coburg; from August 2005 to July 2009. The DPS is a mandate carrier of the first triple coalition; from May 2013 to August 2014, a second triple coalition of 149 months, i.e. 49% of the entire time of the transition. The movement for rights and freedoms did not find the strength and time of the business that they did.. they all have very luxury vehicles, they have serious business, they are rich people rich, to think about their voters. Dear MPs of the DPS, here are your people, whom you should have condemned. There's these people! [[Shows lists.]] This is Decree No 1313 of the State Council of the Republic of Bulgaria, states: Now I want to say what my attitude is. Although I understand that the operative name of the State Security Party in this Parliament is the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, although I understand that their proposal is not motivated. [[DSS and DSS lines]] , in the way that I understand it, although I understand that their proposal is a political game... bold, immoral, dishonest, I think that this issue should find a solution in this National Assembly. I believe that all of us who write ourselves Democrats and are sent here by people who want and expect justice, we need to find a consensus text to vote and to know that there is also such a law in Bulgaria. There is such a law in Romania because people have found enough political will beyond legal principles to solve this issue. And at the moment there is a law that acts and which says that the Bulgarian Communist Party was a criminal organization. Ergo this means that her rule was such, ergo the laws that were voted then were such! So we have a serious base to set foot on. I commit myself on behalf of the Political Party GERB to introduce between first and second reading texts to be addressed not only to the past, but also to the future, because if we are only solving the issue of our past in this way of limitation, it means that we have not learnt any lessons from it and do nothing about the future. Dear Members of Parliament, if we do not decide whether we want to have a clean hands operation in Bulgaria, whether we really want to see how this corporate capital was built up, how people's hopes were stolen in the direct and transmission sense of the word, we cannot remove from our understanding of justice and those crimes that were committed after 1990 as a result of the undeveloped structures of State Security. For example: participation in commercial operations on which an international embargo has been imposed; trafficking and distribution of narcotics; provision of funds, as well as the smuggling of special products in favour of dictatorial or terrorist regimes; embezzlement of state or private financial capital through participation in bank drain schemes, foreign-commercial companies, as well as pension and health insurance funds by persons linked to the backlog of our new country. We cannot fail to realize that we need to give a clear sign in the Criminal Code how we understand the dangers of our country. Because we still don't have any compositions to talk about crimes due to acts of radical Islam. I undertake to propose between first and second readings a much more comprehensive and much more logical, in my opinion, an option which I have a claim to claim that many MPs from this Parliament can unite. Because the issue of limitation does not belong to a single party. It does not belong to either DPS or GERB or the Reformation Block. This is the duty we have to our constituents, to the people who suffered the communist regime and remained poor and without perspective during the transition. With this law, we must give them a glimpse of hope that something positive is happening in the National Assembly that European Bulgaria and its MPs have understood the lessons of the transition and the communist order. Therefore, dear friends of the DPS, do not misunderstand me, I do not believe you, but nevertheless I call in principle that this is extremely important. This is an extremely important political act and, in principle, I believe that this bill should be tabled. By the way, dear friends of the DPS, though if it were your bill, if you had suffered it, you would have made at least one new sentence in what GERB had done. What you've done is plagiarism. I guess you're only capable of plagiarizing because you don't suffer that, you don't feel it. It's business for you. And I say it, and anyone can see it.. that what you have proposed is exactly the proposal of Mrs. Gemma Grozdanova and it does not differ with any comma from what she brought in at the time. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u20	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. Almost two thirds of the group's time contained your speech. Dear MPs, you have the opportunity for lines. Here you are, Mr. Kardzhaliev, then Mr. Kazak, and you, Mr. Popov, are the third.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u21	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear Mr. Andreev! Let's talk from the stands with you, Mr. Andreev! I'm a tolerant man because I think the most valuable quality God has given us is the sense of measure. You're crossing every line. With this statement, I judge once again, you cross every line. Even something else I notice about you. When you speak from this tribune and in your mouth is DPS, I feel some neurovegetative.. your eyes pop out of orbit, your breathing is rising, you have sweat on your forehead. [[(Laughter and chanted by the DPS: (Bravo, bravo!)]] There are probably other organs that have been altered. [[Applause from DPS.]] I sense some kind of personal emotional charge and I wonder what's at stake, what's the reason you're acting like this. This is the diagnosis of feelings of organic resentment or even hatred. You feel hatred for the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Your hatred is our privilege, however. We're an experienced party. We are the only ones left in this transition always in the third place. The first and second always changed. Why do you think we're always third? Why do a constant number of voters vote on us? Are you the moral censor that will qualify here? I look you in the eye and ask you: I am a product, I am a function of 25 thousand voters from my constituency and indirectly to over half a million voters, these voters if they do not like us, they will not choose us! They will not vote in such a way that for 25 years we have been an insurmountable factor in the Bulgarian political space. And I'll tell you something else about the hatred I'm ending, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u22	Last sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u23	Last sentence. Did you know the Turkish saying that when a human mass is pressed to the bottom, it becomes an explosive mass? The movement for rights and freedoms has made us explode only in elections. And in another election it will be like this! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u24	Thank you, Mr. Kardzhaliev. I hope we do not go along the plane of the medical symposiums to transform the National Assembly. [[Radio in DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u25	No, there's no such danger, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, Mr. Andreev! Firstly, if the Movement for Rights and Freedoms for all these 25 years had not shown a consistent policy regarding the respect and restoration of the violated rights and freedoms of the most unjust Bulgarian citizens by the communist regime, the DPS would not have been here for 25 years invariably, as a third political force. If the DPS had not defended in all editions of the National Assembly, whether in opposition or in government, these morally fundamental human values, which are also mentioned in this bill, our voters would not have voted on us. I assure you, none of us are subscribed to the people's trust, not a single political power. The movement for rights and freedoms does not vote or sign the existing Constitution, precisely for the same reasons that you mentioned. So you manipulate after 25 years of plenary. But people and everyone who's interested know the truth. The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms supported by a vote in 1999. The Law declaring the Communist regime criminal. There's no need to manipulate the room again, that someone was almost silent, someone was on the sidelines. It's the vote that counts! This bill is not Jemma Grozdanova's bill because she didn't introduce it as a bill. It was introduced between first and second reading of another Law amending the Penal Code and this is a project made by a group of gravitating persons around the right space, such as Yevgeny Mihailov and others. So this Bill is not an author of GERB. We also say it's not ours, copyrighted, and we stated it in the motives. However, we have always stated our willingness to support it in both the Commission and the plenary. You were not here in plenary to witness what kind of haggling then GERB colleagues put the entire plenary and us, trying to bring it in as a bargaining chip, just and only to drive us down then with BSP to get BSP to vote against other important items on the agenda. At the time, I paid attention to them that this subject is non-negotiable. At a bargain, Mr. Andreev, are willing to bring this subject to light precisely those who are not sincere. I hope, as you have declared here...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u26	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u27	...you will sincerely support him, and so will all the other colleagues...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u28	Thank you, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u29	Because that's the only way to prove you're sincere. I'm counting on it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u30	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. Third line? Mr. Popov? You're quitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u31	One important thing I want to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u32	Let's give the floor to Mr. Bayraktarov. Let's alternate the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u33	I have a very important thing to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u34	Do you think you'll step back? I apologize, Mr. Bayraktarov. I asked her to back off. You will have the opportunity to make the next speech. Here you are, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u35	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Andreev! In your speech, you said one very important and very true thing, the only true thing that you are writing about Democrats, and you are not real Democrats. If you were really Democrats, you wouldn't question the will of 500,000 voters. Regarding the quote you made in connection with the vote from the past National Assembly. I will not return to the 1990s because I have no recollection from there, but from the past National Assembly, when I was present here, but you were not there, I voted for it, and my colleagues abstained, because then the procedural group decided to vote to be so by procedure and not essentially. If you're wondering why I voted like that, because that's what I decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Ahmedova. For the next speech, Mr. Popov. But before that, of course, you have the right to the doppelganger, please, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u37	Mr. Kardzhaliev, you are an experienced party, very experienced, but in one... in demagogy. [[Applause from GERB.]] With regard to whether I am a democrat, if I was not a democrat, what I received two weeks ago for your leader, I would have put it in the media. I didn't say a word, and I said I wouldn't talk about it and I gave it to the D.A. and the relevant authorities. Because I'm not going to be the spokesperson for the political battles you're fighting with your backstage. And with regard to Mr. Kardzhaliev, this thesis which he revealed was only the DPS party that guaranteed ethnic peace, why so strangely corresponded with the last appearances of the Rector of UniBIT Professor. Stoyan Denchev? Aren't those actually the real parents of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Because that's what he says we shouldn't pressure the DPS. I'm pressuring the DPS' political agenda because I know they don't express what people have sent them here to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u38	Then why are they voting for us?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u39	I'll tell you one thing at the end, I'll read you one thing and you tell me with these data that I'll read to you how you can have an honorary chairman who did this. While Dogan is a soldier, he is tasked with getting close to Mehmed Feradov and studying him. Ahmed's writing him a letter from DHS and contacting him. Feradov writes poems, and Angelov, which is Ahmed Dogan's agent name...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u40	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u41	Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u42	...cleverly gets under his skin with complex philosophical thoughts to get more information about his mood.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u43	Mr. Andreev, I'd like the back of your head to the lines addressed to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u44	I'm just saying this...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u45	Last sentence, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u46	This brings Ahmed Dogan four Bulgarian Turks were injured. And here it says very clearly: DHS takes their treatment and neutralizes them. Is this really your political face?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u47	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u48	Do your constituents know that? Did you tell them that?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u49	Mr. Andreev, on the subject of the Penal Code, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u50	When they learn it and vote by conscience, then you can speak for them. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u51	Five hundred thousand vote in spite of you and continue to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u52	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. Statements? In the manner of holding Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u53	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! I was aware that we were looking at a bill, but basically what we're hearing from people who are speaking here, I think we're way off the subject of a bill. And from this point of view, Madam President, when people read morals here, from this tribune and use the terms as a "Who?" they have to answer another question: Who carried out the thieving privatization and was the thieving privatization backstage? When they talk about State Security and quote selective names, they have to go through a little bit and say if there are Buddha deities, what forms and which ones? Moreover, when they read parts of files, it seems that Mr. Dogan is an interesting figure for our entire history, not only for the political system, but also for our history, to make a separate meeting, to take all the volumes from the archives and to read them in full. Otherwise, when we talk about morality, let's see which parliamentary groups are the militiamen from the time of the revival process. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u54	Mr. Karadayi, you are right, paying attention to the leadership of the National Assembly, that you should closely monitor the speechable MPs to comment on the proposed draft laws on which the debate is currently under way. However, when a good and correct proposal is used in the sense of responding to those who go outside the debate, you have essentially done the same. I will take note of your proposal, I will not allow until the end of the debate to go beyond the subject of the bills. Several Members of the National Assembly are enrolled for a speech. In order for the parliamentary groups to alternate, Mr. Philip Popov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Listening to the talkers, I can think of an anecdote: I will drink with disgust, but I will still drink. This bill will clearly strike the biggest blow on importers and those who support it. I have heard from this tribune to call for action beyond legal principles. This is unacceptable in a parliamentary state, in a rule of law. All that is outside the legal principles of the rule of law is not democracy. I address all of you, my colleagues, to the Democrats, to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, to all Members. This is not a democracy. First of all, from a legal point of view, the proposed bill is turning the whole legal doctrine and logic upside down, according to which the laws have action in the future and do not have retroactive effect. The norms of the Penal Code in their particular part shall have the opposite effect only in case they are more favourable to the children. The Penal Code and the Constitution "The Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria" states that there can be no more severe punishment than what was envisaged during its execution. Moreover, it is not a crime that an act which has not been declared to be one by law before or when it has been committed. But if we come out of legal logic and stick to the logic of the importers and go to the political manage, why limit ourselves to this period of Bulgarian history? Remind you of the immortal Vaptsarov? ▪ What does a person mean here?! Shots fired, and after the shooting, the worm. It's so simple and logical. Vaptsarov is a victim of fascism. The Colossus Geo Milev is a victim of fascism. Boyan Chonov, Miko Ninov, victims of fascism. To remind you of Stara Zagora, Kazanlak, Chirpan, Nova Zagora, the former Stara Zagora region?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u56	Mr. Popov, a moment ago, the remark was in that sense. I'm counting on you to walk in the debate without applying specific cases.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u57	Thank you. Since the Bill concerns a certain period of our history, I would therefore like to argue why it should be systematized, to frame this Bill only within this period of time. If we follow the logic of the importer, that is why I am describing some other facts prior to this period, namely the years 1941 to 1944. Each Bulgarian democrat will inevitably remain shocked by the savage lawlessness, which was king of the supposedly enlightened Bulgarian monarchy. Then fascist bandits, dear colleagues, cross the country and sow death without trial or judgment. Civilian men, women and youth were kidnapped from their homes to be brutally incubated.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u58	Mr. Popov, we comment on the Penal Code adopted in 1968. Please stick to the bills under this Law, Code adopted 1968.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u59	I stick to that spirit and what was suggested by the importers. Because they return to history in an unconstitutional way. I'm going back too.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u60	Have you read their bill? You propose and refer to chapters of the 1968 Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u61	I'm going back, but it's about the period after 1944. Then, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs literally beat them to death, as happened to the young anti-fascist Slavi Dishlyanov, who was hanged with broken legs and arms a few days before September 9th, as well as his associate anti-fascist. There will hardly be an honest Bulgarian whose heart will not flinch, getting acquainted with the tragic events in the village of Hawtrebino on December 19, 1943.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u62	Mr. Popov, Mr. Karadaye suggested that we have a political discussion and a debate. I guess he needs one, because after we did a thorough health review a little while ago, we're about to make history.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u63	Madam President, with what do the victims of the so-called by the importers are more victims than the so-called Fascism, to ask you?! [[GERB lines.]] That's exactly what I'm explaining. Why do we have to stop at this time period? Hawk on December 19, 1943. ...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u64	Mr. Popov, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u65	...the brutally murdered guerrillas...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u66	This is my final warning.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u67	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, do not turn to the Bulgarian history, as the history remembers, because history is an objective tool for national and not party self-awareness! Such an unconstitutional bill cannot and should not be adopted by the Bulgarian National Assembly! If you have at least a few European values that you claim to have, if you insist on the order of law, do not accept it. This will be a blow to democracy and to all your constituents. [[GERB lines]] who sent you to this National Assembly against all your people who voted against all the Bulgarians who sent you here because this is another blow against democracy. Don't support him. Don't become accomplices to this thing. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u68	Thank you, Mr. Popov. - What's the line? Mr. Mihov. [[(Replication in case of excluded microphones of the President Tsetska Tsacheva to the National Representative Milen Mihov:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u69	I heard your warning, Madam President. I'll take that as a story.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u70	That was my warning that we're not on the subject of history, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u71	I'm making a line to the speaker, and I can't help but say the story, Madam President. Give me a chance for just two sentences. It's good to know the story. It is good to handle correct historical terms. It is good to compare violence as a basis for parliamentary conduct. But you used unhistoric arguments using the mantle of history.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u72	Thank you, Mr. Mihov, for the correct line. Second line? I won't. A hole? Mr. Popov, I'm once again hoping for a proper coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u73	My fellow Member, because we are constantly being asked to read history, so we are ultimately not solving any actual question, a pressing question that is about the future. One historical fact.. thousands of Bulgarians killed without trial and sentencing by the fascist regime. [[Replications from the MPs Milen Mihov and Yanaki Stoilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u74	Colleagues, please, no yelling from the hall! Procedure by Mr. Siderov. [[Radio, lines.]] Please, no lines from place, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u75	Madam President, it was very good of you to join us in stopping the dialogues off the subject. I'd like to make a procedural proposal. There are very important items on the agenda today. In order not to waste parliamentary time, I suggest to the importers of this Bill to withdraw it, because, apart from being controversial historically, their proposal and legally not supported. What is the meaning of the Communist regime? In this room, I can only think of one person who is not related to the communist regime. This is my colleague Kalina Balabanova because she was born in 1990. We are all related to the communist regime. It's just ridiculous. And let's not talk about history anymore, because obviously history is not known by those who claim to be speakers. I would like to make a proposal that is now a college proposal; it is not procedural. Madam President, I am ready to help you organise a course of law in the Bulgarian National Assembly, because we are the National Assembly.......................... from respect to parliamentaryism here you should speak correctly, literary Bulgarian language when representatives of the different groups come out. It's called "one," not "yino," "demagogy" and not "dimagogy" and so on. It should be spoken in the right language and not in the broken Bulgarian language. I can help a lot with that. Thank you. [[Radio, applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u76	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. I'm open to a proposal in this direction. I think it would be appropriate for us to make such a refreshing speech. Any other MPs? Mr. Karakachanov for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u77	Madam President, honourable Members! I will make a speech on two of the submitted draft laws, one of the DPS, the other of my colleagues from Ataka, to amend and supplement the Penal Code. I'll start with the DPS Bill. I have to say a few things so you don't misunderstand me afterwards. My great-grandfather was killed after 9 September, burned half alive with 13 other people. My other grandfather spent about four years in the camps...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u78	Mr. Karakachanov, I do not expect the Vice-President to pick up the line on which I am trying to put an end to this!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u79	I'm explaining, Madam President, what this is about. Take the text: "The criminal prosecution and the execution of criminal liability for crimes by persons associated with the communist regime after 9 September, including those related to the so-called "renaissance process" is not excluded! The last part of the sentence is the key. I want to ask you the question: who will you judge from those who, after 9 September, committed mass murder? 70 years ago! They're gone! Obviously, the aim of this Bill is not so much to seek some criminal responsibility from people who after the 9th massacred normal, peaceful citizens, and the aim is to bring a division again into the Bulgarian society on the topic of the revival process, as it is clear that there is no one to judge from those after 9 September! Apropo, there is no one to judge from the leaders of the then Compartment, because they are all dead too! You propose that we open the door, Pandora's Box, start transferring and harassing ordinary security officers, police, administration and so on, still living people! This will not solve any problems, honourable Members of the DPS! This won't close the wounds, it'll open them extra! It will further turn the Bulgarian society against each other! Under the apparent anti-communism mask here, Mr. Andreev enough speaks on this subject, and the DPS, I will not repeat it, in fact, your main goal, as well as the previous Bill from a month ago, which we discussed, is to bring society back into division, opposition, from which you can earn political dividends in front of your electorate, which, apropo, is also tired of talking to him only about the revival process! From this point of view, I'd like to ask you another question, speaking of morality. Yes, there have been crimes committed during the revival process of limiting human rights, bringing people to prison, extradition from Bulgaria and so on. But before the revival process, were there not some people who worked for the Turkish intelligence services, who were prepared by organizations such as the Golden Horde, or the Grey Wolves, and performed sabotage activities against Bulgaria and the constitutional order in Bulgaria?! Aren't there some bombers who blew up a carload of moms with kids?! Do they have a statute of limitations?! Because they were rehabilitated, to some of them you built fountains and worshiped them! Other participants in these attacks made them coordinators in Burgas of your party! Come on, let's not split things up and stop with this double standard! So the terrorists who put the bomb in the car with mothers and children are heroes, and the militiaman who arrested them and probably slapped them, or the prosecutor who gave them the death sentences, is a criminal! I call on colleagues from GERB and from the Reformation Bloc: do not be misled by the calls of the DPS this slide on which they put you, on the topic of anticommunism, because their goal is not this! Their goal is the division of Bulgarian society. The patriotic front will strongly vote against this DPS Bill. Regarding the bill of Mr. Volen Siderov and a group of MPs for the inevitable defence. In the motives are written clearly enough the things they have proposed. Of course, some of them can be corrected, added and so on. This Bill we will support because it is very clear already that this way in Bulgaria cannot be continued. When an ordinary citizen in smaller towns, and in the more extreme neighborhoods of a city becomes the subject of a crime, he does not have enough authority to protect himself, his relatives, his property, his health and his honor. These changes to the Penal Code on the Inescapable Defense and the extension of its scope are absolutely imperative. And we talk about it a lot. There is no jealousy here who proposed it first, the debate on this issue at all is useful and this bill must be supported. I call again my colleagues from GERB and from the Reformation Bloc, from ABB and from BSP: Abstraj that Ataka is in opposition and offers it. The bill is correct. This is what the Bulgarian society wants. It is not normal to have houses in settlements that have been robbed 10-11 times and the ordinary citizen when using his own weapon to protect himself, he is the victim, he is punished, not the one who robbed him 10 or 11 times. Thus, with this non-punishment of this domestic crime, which plagues two thirds of Bulgaria, we stimulate precisely this domestic crime. This is one of the measures "enlargement of the scope of the inevitable defence, among other measures to be taken with regard to police presence in these small settlements, with regard to cameras. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm talking about two bills, don't make faces at me! There's six of them. I'm saying two of them. So, fellow Members, I call you on the draft of the DPS................................................................................................... Don't be fooled! This is an attempt for another division and manipulation of the Bulgarian society. Under the Inescapable Defense Bill, we will support it in particular. I also call on the other Members of Parliament to do so. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u80	First line, Mr. Kazak. Second line, Mr. Tsonev. The third line is vacant for now. We're listening, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u81	Thank you. First, on behalf of a group, I want an extension of debate time. I would like to address you, Mr. Karakachanov: do not mislead the Chamber about the objectives of the Law. The Law clearly states which crimes in which penal code texts we are talking about, which chapters. This bill is not the bill which was tabled by Gemma Grozdanova in the last parliament. It is a bill which is ultimately formed in the Committee on Legal Affairs in the last Parliament, so from this point of view no one has reason to claim exclusive authorship. This bill aims precisely to remove the statute of limitations for specific crimes on specific texts of the Penal Code and not for new crimes that will be defined and if there are still living ones who have committed these crimes, they may be held liable if the prosecution decides. And I would like, because there has been a reproach that why, almost flagrantly, our President, Mr. Mestan, is absent more than two months ago, there is a business trip planned under the OSS Parliamentary Assembly, so do not mislead the House, Mr. Andreev. In the same way, I can say that you deliberately put this item on the agenda just when there is no Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u82	Mr. Kazak, you have a line for Mr. Karakachanov! [[Noise and lines.]] Second line, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u83	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Karakachanov, we've known each other a long time. We've even worked in the same coalition, in the same government in the past. [[Noise and lines.]] I would like to give you a reply to this part of your speech, which concerns the topic of the division of the nation; the topic of the fact that my fellow Members who submitted the bill on this subject and on the previous topics concerning the Revival Process actually do what those who have chosen us want to see and hear. I go and meet my constituents, and I know that there are unhealed wounds. I'm telling you this as a Christian. And it is neither correct nor honorable in this way to make accusations of things that you yourself do. Who divides the nation into ethnic and religious principles? I will tell you, Mr. Karakachanov, that your party and coalition exists and is here in Parliament, based on what you accuse the DPS of on the basis of its ethnic etoric, based on the establishment of ethnic and religious division of the nation. And this is no secret for you or for everyone who listens to you. Look at your entire election campaign. Look at your rhetoric here in plenary, and you'll see who's setting the nation apart. Your policy and your rhetoric on the Patriotic Front, on both sides, on the several parties that make it up, on both IMRO and on the other main party. So don't blame the DPS for something that our party's electorate really has unhealed wounds, but do your best as a Christian, because no Christian should instill ethnic and religious hatred.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u84	There's no third line. A hole, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u85	I didn't hear anything about it, Mr. Tsonev and Mr. Kazak. In 1998, when the Convention on National Minorities was proposed in this House, I voted against. I said there'd be a bomb on your hands in the next decades. You didn't listen to me back then from SDS, ODS. Your Commander's decision is in your hands then and now we're paying the taxes. You're not in the ODS anymore, but it doesn't matter. About who sent us here. Not our xenophobic or nationalist, as you call them, rhetoric, but the fact that people are tired of 25 years of speculating on the ethnic map. This party is called DPS. People are fed up with 25 years when you are in power, to disband your belt, as it is said, to abuse and overeat with power, and to justify yourselves: but we, the Revival Process, and now you will put up with us. That's what people are tired of! That's why we're here, not just us, but a lot of other people. What did your electorate want? Maybe some people want it, that's right. There are other citizens electoring other parties who want real communism back. Others may want something else, but let us consider that 25 years of these events have passed. What you're really suggesting isn't for anyone to take criminal responsibility. Here you were informed that if you wanted to, you could have done so in the period 1990-2001, 2003, 2005, when still one part of the people who led the Revival process were alive. You are actually speculating once again with the Revival Process, with the idea of maintaining your electorate. This, however, sets Bulgarians against Turks or Turks against Bulgarians, regardless. That's bad, and that's scary. This can't go on. In many modern countries like Spain, after the Civil War, the people who died on one side of the barricade were buried in a cemetery. Some form of reconciliation was sought. It was the same with the regiment of colonels in Greece. It was the same in other places. You 25 years, a quarter of a century after the so-called Revival Process, during which quarter of a century you may be in power, will now be seeking responsibility for whom? There's no one alive. Why? It is clear why the separation of society is your nutritional environment. This is harmful, and I call on my colleagues not to delude themselves on this track, not to step on this watermelon crust that you are putting on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u86	For a statement from the enrolled colleagues so far, they have not spoken from the group of "Attack." Mr. Notev, Vice-President of the National Assembly from the group of "Attack."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u87	Thank you, Madam President. In fact, in this item on the agenda, we are discussing several bills and, of course, one has given rise to overwhelming attention and this is not a coincidence. I, too, will start from the Bill tabled by the DPS Parliamentary Group so that I can express my attitude quickly and not because I find it necessary to repeat what has been said so far, but because, from a purely legal point of view, the proposal of colleagues from the DPS is not a result of ignorance and misunderstanding, but quite consciously and deliberately has the type and content of a political declaration and not a legal norm. Read what we are discussing, honourable Members. Read the wish that is contained to be condemned for not applying the statute of limitations institute to those persons who have committed acts for political reasons, whatever that means, and as well as being able to interpret related to the communist regime. These two prerequisites cumulative or alternative are given and not clear from the importer's text. And because it's small, it says: "Including those related to the so-called renaissance process." Excuse me, I was at a Health Commission meeting yesterday where fellow doctors with much greater skill discussed substantive legal prerequisites for being recognised as a valid legal norm. It does not honor the Committee on Legal Affairs which has allowed such a text to enter into the plenary. There is no other purpose and no other point in discussing this political declaration, apart from what has already been achieved in today's meeting, to resume the dispute, political talk about the responsibility of persons who have already faced, as has already been said, before another court, who have received their verdict or acquittal where their souls have been transferred. At the same time, to deal with this issue now with such sharp words and definite qualifications, when our attention within the same point stands important bills, I am referring to the Government Bill, the Bill of Members of GERB, who have signed their own proposal to amend the norms of art. 343 et seq., I argue that substantive issues are raised in the bills tabled by the parliamentary group to which I belong is indeed irresponsible. I ask you not to support and strongly reject the motion of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms on these grounds which have already been heard in this House and on the legal and technical issues to which I have addressed your attention. Next, I would like to state the position of the Parliamentary Group of "Attack" on the bills aimed at harmonizing with European law the Bill submitted by the government and the Bill submitted by MPs from GERB. We will support these bills. We will support them because they advocate those who find their logical continuation and logical link to what we point to in our bills, and especially in their motives. If the punishments for crimes that have as a consequence and as a result the debauchery of the young generation should be increased, the introduction of practices unacceptable from the point of view of our education, both religious and moral, and human, as is done in the Bill of Government, then we have a step forward in relation to what we state in our Law as regards the annual gay parades and their corrupting role and function in the education of the young generation. We've found the right language, I assure you. Read the proposal of the "Attacka". We have found the norm, the measure so that there is no reason to comment on the level of discrimination applied for in relation to certain persons. If some are recognized in such practices, which are reproachable morally and legally, it is their personal problem. February 14th is Valentine's Day, already found a wide response and feedback in our society. Let someone, if he is the subject of their feelings and desires of the same sex, do so when all other citizens equal before the Constitution, before the law and before God declare it on that day, but demonstrations, marches, meetings, such as they are unknown as other persons' practice, cannot be the privilege of a certain entity. This is the meaning of the proposal of "Attack." Let's not split up and let's not point fingers at each other on this line. And I end with the Law of Ataka, which stirs up the most disputes, and with opponents who are very unfairly referring to a dispute already under way in 1997, when the petition of 52 MPs from the then parliament has become an occasion for the Constitutional Court to rule on the legality and constitutional validity of proposals which have already been voted, adopted and introduced as legal norms in our legal system. 12. Six hypotheses that determine that, with their presence, there will be no discussion of the existence or absence of inevitable defence. In their presence, he who has defended himself, his property against persons, more than him, against armed persons, against persons who broke into his home with forced entry and violence, he does not respond by definition and by law. The Court of Justice did not comment on this finding. Some of these hypotheses have been canceled. I say: only some of these hypotheses were abolished by the then formation of the Constitutional Court, and in the particular opinion of those who defended the right to life of para. 3 of the then art. 12, the name of the Patriarch of Bulgarian Law Zhivko Stalev, who reasoned in the motives of the constitutional decision the need, the need for the existence of the right to life of such a text. I will not waste your time because each of you is competent, literate to read these motives. I assure you, they are extremely instructive and convincing. In this regard, I ask you to support the proposal of "Attack" for the clear and precise formulation of the right to the inevitable defence of the Bulgarian citizen, just as the American, protected in art. 35 of the Criminal Code of the State of New York, just as convincingly the individuals who have taken a particular opinion on the constitutional decision have defended the right of the Bulgarian to defend their property, honor and dignity. Nothing scary and nothing special on the plane of our reality will happen when we accept this text. Thank you for the support that has been requested for our bill from this tribune by Mr. Karakachanov. We rely on correct and correct assessment and correct attitude towards this Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u88	Thank you, Mr. Notev. - What's the line? I won't. On behalf of the Reformation Block, Mr. Korman Ismailov. Colleagues, we will probably not be able to close the debate today, as there are many recorded MPs. You've been recorded, Mr. Enchev, and you. After Mr. Ismailov's speech we will take a break and at 11:00 we continue with parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I will take a brief view of the bill submitted by my fellow Members from the DPS. Of course, at the beginning I would like to stress that I stand by every word you have said as an attitude and presented as facts my colleague Andreev. Many words can still be said in this regard, but essentially. In general, it's the right idea and it's a good idea. It is indeed in connection with the need to restore justice. However, I believe that even if this text is adopted, it will produce nothing, because for 25 years nothing has been done on these issues. And it has not been done, although we already have a very clear idea and information about the communist regime, about its crimes, but we are very aware of how changes and reforms took place in time, and how the mentality of people who committed these crimes has moved through political parties, moved into the judiciary, and in no way has new thinking been adopted to distinguish themselves and take concrete action to restore this justice. I'm very skeptical that in 25 years this could happen. I think it should be a long time. Here again I express my skepticism and mistrust in the intentions of colleagues from DPS as importers and what they have done over time. Yes, this mentality exists with you fellow Members. It also exists among many other parties currently represented in the National Assembly. In this regard is my bitterness and disbelief in future developments in this direction. I personally would support these actions, I would participate and participate with my colleague Andreev in the upgrade and better formulation of them and in forming a real will to take action and achieve this justice in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u90	Line. Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u91	I turn with a reply to the honourable gentleman who just spoke to tell him that today we are looking at a bill of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which I hope they will someday withdraw, and why not today to show an example of national agreement and reconciliation. I appeal to you, colleagues on the right, I address you personally to tell you that everything that is happening today in plenary, in part, if not entirely due to the declaration that the Blue Coalition adopted and imposed on this Parliament on 11 January 2012. Declaration of the Blue Coalition! Let all the blues pour ash on their head for this nihilist, traitorous declaration, a statement that says, quote: "The banishment of 360 thousand people in 1989 is a form of ethnic cleansing. "Something that you have allowed yourself to submit as a document to this parliament, which was voted by Party GERB and the other parties here without, as far as I know, some lawmakers on the left, which is a great disgrace... [[Reply from "Attacka."]] Yes, the attack did not support, of course. A great disgrace to the Blue Coalition, to the right-wings in Bulgaria, who, at this moment, presented themselves as true national traitors. You can't call a form of ethnic cleansing that borders on genocide, a political operation So when we talk about the victims of the revival process, many are doing some people on the left side, who before me are talking about the victims of the revival process, the children, the mothers in the car in Bunovo? Why don't you say anything on the right side?! Why are you silent?! I won't talk about Mr. Metodi Andreev. I'm not talking about Mr. Metodi Andreev at all. Mr. Metodi Andreev...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u92	You, in the form of a line, address a third person. Then there will be personal explanations and we enter a vicious circle, Mr. Enchev. Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Ismailov. This will end the debate on these bills for today.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u93	Mr. Enchev, this is exactly the mentality I was talking about. I don't blame you for thinking that way. It's natural and understandable to me. In a previous statement you called here the revival process a mistake. This is your opinion and your position, which we, the Democrats on the right, do not accept and will never agree to.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u94	Well, isn't that a mistake?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u95	And that's our fight. In our opinion, this is a crime and there should be a responsible one, there should be punishment, not excuses, not other assessments. And as for what you have touched on about the attacks in question, when did they happen, and as a result of what have they emerged, what is the role of the State Security? How many DHS agents are involved in this kind of thing? This is another topic that can also be considered and proven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u96	Thank you. Rest until 11.00 and we continue with the debates on the draft decision on questioning, questions and answers of the Members of the National Assembly for today's parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u97	I ask the Members of the National Assembly to take their seats. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL Previously on New Enquiries for the period 17 February "February 19, 2015'. There has been an inquiry from the National Representative Ivan Slavov Ivanov to Todor Tanev on an action for accelerated provision of a material base for full-time training of pre-school children. The plenary sitting should be answered on 27 February 2015. A question was received from the National Representative Dimitar Delchev to Hristo Ivanov, Minister of Justice, concerning the concept of criminal policy. The plenary sitting should be answered on 27 February 2015. Written answers from: - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov. - Minister of Health Petar Moskov to two questions from the National Representative Sultanka Petrova. I ask Mrs. Petrova to come and get her answers; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on a question from the National Representative Angel Naydenov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petrova on a question from the National Representative Evgenia Alexieva; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Emil Raynov; - Minister of Transport Information Technologies and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova to two questions from the National Representative Kristian Vigenin; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Antony Trenchev; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreyev; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Dessislava Atanasova; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Vyara Tzerovska; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Jayhan Ibryamov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Kiril Dobrev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Kostadin Markov; - Minister of Interior Veselin Vuchkov on a question from the National Representative Stefan Kenov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Stefan Kenov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Boyka Marinska; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Mrs. Mariana Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u98	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am authorised by the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and its President to read: DECLARATION on the occasion of the International Mother's Language Day, February 21st, the International Mother's Language Day is a kind of celebration of human integrity. Announced by UNESCO General Conference on 17 November 1999, this day has been celebrated since 2000 in support of linguistic and cultural diversity. Languages are the emissaries of the human mind in the name of the peace of the planet and the future of civilization. The mother tongue is the Holy of Language Education, the basis of intercultural communication as a high dialogue between values. Therefore, mother language training has its right to be inalienable in the educational process of each country and any modern school. This is the only way to achieve language literacy and linguistic communication, without which the integrity of cultures as a memory of civilization would remain a mere directive. The mother tongue is a phenomenon contained in the identity of the DPS. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms conducts a policy of protection of the mother tongue and its study at school with an appropriate number of hours of the general choir of language learning at all. Every language literacy and multilingual competence is doomed if it does not build on the culture of mother tongue as the beginning of human memory, and memory is the democratic territory of the passionate compatibilitys of spirit and spirituality. The civilisational attitude towards mother tongue is a sign of modern politics in every democratic state. Today's countries should therefore encourage the study and use of mother tongue rather than restrict it or, as in the case of provisions in the Election Code in Bulgaria, even sanction the use of mother tongue not instead, but together with the official language. For Bulgaria, the homeland of UNESCO Director General Irina Bokova and a candidate for UN Secretary General, this is also a special authority, and due institutional card. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Georgieva. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of "Attack" "Mr. Volen Siderov."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in fact, after the previous vote, we have to say and say that it is third-sex, after this amendment that you have adopted. My speech is related to the escalation of sanctions against Russia, which were adopted a new phase of sanctions with which the Bulgarian state agreed. Someone's gonna ask why I'm talking about this? Because the Bulgarian Prime Minister was in Brussels, but he did not oppose the new phase of sanctions. What did we see last week? We have seen that sanctions are being imposed for entering the European Union already on people who are people of art. [[Noise and lines on the right.]] Yeah, he was singing at our concerts, and you know what song he was singing? My country, my Bulgaria. Is that what you forbid, ladies and gentlemen of GERB and the satellites of GERB? What is the next step, I ask, which Brussels will take and also the chiefs from Washington? Will burning books be the next step, or crematoriums? I don't know, but this line that the government's heading for is very dangerous. I've warned you more than once from this tribune about the line you're walking on. Stop it, it's not too late! Yet! You are representatives of the government, Mr. Donchev and Mrs. Pavlova, tell the Prime Minister that it is still possible to stop this disastrous policy for Bulgaria. To oppose these sanctions, to say in Brussels that this is harmful to our interests and we will not implement these sanctions. To learn from his colleague Viktor Orban, who said a few days ago that Hungary would not enter the so-called "European Energy Union" and that no matter what that means, and that Hungary is building a nuclear power plant from those, the bad guys, the Russians, and that 10 billion were invested there. Euros by the Russian Federation. Viktor Orban is also a member of the European coalition, which you are also a member of the EPP. So it's okay. What I propose is a possible policy, a real politician, as the textbooks say: follow this policy of opportunities that we have before us, because if you continue along this line, the consequences for Bulgaria will soon be very, very dangerous. Because I talked about investments, and because in the past days, in the parliamentary week that ends, we talked about money, about billions, about new external debt, I can tell you a few words in this direction too. I heard the Prime Minister when the loan you were offering was being discussed here at a meeting of the Council of Ministers in front of the media saying that whoever could find 6 billion, I don't know why he was talking about six, and here is offering ratification of 16 billion, I don't know where that difference came from, some 10 billion difference, but anyway I heard him say that if anyone could find 6 billion, order his place. Mr. Donchev and Mrs. Pavlova, tell the Prime Minister that he is not here, that I can immediately provide not 6 but 66 billion without being enslaved by a loan, as you suggest. [[Noise and lines from GERB and to the right, single applauses from "Attack."]] Yes, I can do that, and it will be a reality, as I do not experience this pathological fear that you have that someone will scold you from Brussels or from the American Embassy. It is quite possible to happen and these opportunities you reject them. There was a proposal for more than 15 billion euros of Russian investment the previous year. There was a proposal for Chinese investments. These proposals were rejected one after another, and then the same lie is repeated here, that there is no money, and here we have to draw a slave loan from banks that are questionable, who are accused of money laundering and so on. What you say to people is simply not true. That there is no alternative, that there is no possibility of any other policy, that we should put a NATO command centre here, that there should come a tank or I do not know what other brigade, as the gene suggests. Hodges, the American general. Everything that follows and what you are doing unreservedly, you have also corrected the Defense Act, so that, here on our territory, foreign officers can command our servicemen. All this prepares Bulgaria for entry into war. This is all the wrong line of behavior. I am telling you, and with this warning I will end my speech today: it is not too late to turn the wheel and turn Bulgaria in the right direction. The way you're driving the car now leads to a cliff. Stop while it's time, it'll be too late! Thank you. I am willing to give you other advice if you listen to them, because if in these 10 years, when I gave you advice, and especially the last in which you managed, since 2009, if you listened to them, Bulgaria would now be at a much, much better level. You didn't listen to them, life just keeps getting worse. You're not listening to me, and now we're gonna go to an even worse place where you're gonna put us in a war. Listen, I'm telling you the right things, I'm talking to you with the voice of reason, I'm talking to the voice of the Bulgarian people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u101	Moving on to: DISCLOSURES ON THE COMPANY OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES MAYA MANOVA AND DORA YANKOVA TO THE MINISTER OF REGIOAL DEVELOPMENT AND THE BLAGOSTERY OF LILY PAVOVA ON THE POLICY OF THE MINISTERITY OF REGIOAL DEVELOPMENT AND THE BLAGOSTERY FOR THE SANTING OF LIVE BUILDINGS. There is a draft decision and motives from last Friday, after which there is a second draft decision by MPs. The first one at the time should be presented by one of its importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u102	Honourable Members, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! Bulgaria is a poor country, the poorest in Europe and this, unfortunately, is not news. And because it is a poor country, and because we have old debts and we are in deficit, you of GERB in the last few days have strongly insinuated that we need to borrow money from the colossal 16 billion. lv. You also convince us, you of GERB, that we must take some other money. lv. For renovations, too, on loan. Thus, the amount will not be 16 but 17 billion. lv. Because, ladies and gentlemen, everyone knows that the money for the renovation has been borrowed. We'll get them from a bank and then you'll hand them out. I've really never seen a poor man take out a loan to give out money. Obviously you have other goals that you hide behind the motives of the mock charity and which are most likely linked to the upcoming local elections. Because if you want to give away, ladies and gentlemen of GERB, you will not give only one, but pay all. Because it is an absolute question: Why should some taxpayers have one, and for other taxpayers not? Why? Why, for example, are people asking me, do the sanitization with European money so that you do not mistake in the already indebted pocket of the Bulgarian citizen? Why? Perhaps because, Mr. Donchev, European control over spending money is stricter than what will happen in the Sanitation Program? Or why, they ask me, if you're going to withdraw 16 billion anyway, you're not using some of these billions for renovations? This is understandable and clear for the Bulgarians. So the dwellings of absolutely all will be sanitized. And now people are asking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u103	Who? Who? Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u104	They're asking those from flooded areas. They ask: "Why do I, who have no roof over my head, have to pay for the sanitization of the centenarians? " They ask people who are in the villages. The other day, they asked me in Pazardzhik: "Why do we from the villages around Pazardzhik, who live in homes that will fall at any moment, have to pay with our money the renovation in the larger city? " They ask those who live for rent and don't have their own apartments, why do they have to pay for the repairs of those who have two and several apartments? They ask those who are on minimum wage, why should they sanitize the apartments of the person across the street who drives a Mercedes and owns a shop? Why? Is he socially weak? Because I don't have an answer to those questions, I guess you don't either. What I hear being spoken by both the MPs and the minister is: "Sanning is free." Sanitation is free. Today, we're giving you a pen, and tomorrow, we're giving your neighbors a sanitization. That's how we're gonna sanitize everyone. All you have to do is watch out for who you vote for in the elections. [[Noise and disapproving lines in GERB and right.]] However, ladies and gentlemen, you know very well, I suppose you have checked that in Bulgaria only people living in panel blocks live in about 70 thousand. Panels. For the renovation of the panel only, not the houses of the citizens, about 15 billion are needed. lv. That is, calmly to the 16 billion you will withdraw, you can withdraw another 15 billion if you really want to fulfill your promise that you will sanitize everyone. Because a man, when he promises, must fulfill, unless you have another purpose. This is where I remember that when the local elections pass, the President will come. Many Bulgarian citizens drive old cars. It would be good, and I guess that's what you're gonna do, and you're gonna have to promise the people in the old cars to buy them new cars before the presidential election. [[Noise and lines.]] There's really nothing wrong with it, only the way you do it, you won't buy those who drive old Golfs, and those who drive Mercedes will end up getting another one. These are your criteria. [[Noise and lines from GERB and right.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled a draft decision requesting that the National Housing Sanitation Program in question be submitted to Parliament. To be discussed by Parliament and we will make several concrete proposals. Firstly, the eligibility criteria for participation in the renovation should be changed. To waive this requirement for 36 apartments, because it, ladies and gentlemen, is discriminatory because there are buildings that are under 36 apartments and have a much greater need for renovations. In addition, you know very well, in this way you completely exclude the small municipalities from the sanitization. We will also propose the principle first at a time, first of right to drop, because this is not a fair principle. These buildings must be renovated first, which have the greatest need for renovations. That is fair, that is fair to the citizens and we will propose it. We also propose that all homeowners who have incomes above averages in the country should contribute a self-participation rate to the renovation for example 10%. Why, I ask an MP who gets a huge salary [[noise and disapproving lines]] or a minister, or a senior employee, to benefit from the free renovation of a residence, provided that people who receive a minimum wage and live in old-fashioned cooperatives with under 36 apartments cannot participate in this process? With this self-participation, there will eventually be more money for renovations, so the housing of more citizens will be renovated. We also insist and have brought it into our Project for a decision to have civilian control over the sanitization. To set up monitoring committees for civil committees to monitor the entire renovation process to monitor the following: 1. how the eligibility criteria for renovation are met; 2. how the time of the first time is measured; 3. how to determine the companies that will make renovations; 4. how the prices of different renovation activities are determined. Don't end up having a company that'll change windows for 500 levs. And those that will make plaster for 50 leva. squared, because that would be a living theft. It is important that citizens, whose money will be sanitized, because it is their money, all taxpayers, not one party, not one minister, take part in the control of this process. I will therefore ask, Madam President, when you vote on the draft decision, that our proposal for civil control be voted on separately. I'll keep an eye on who votes. The other will mean an indirect recognition of the fact that the "Saniate and sponsor" principle will be widely used in the renovation. I will also keep an eye on how my colleagues from the Reformation Block will vote, who have signed your draft decision. Here I already have reason to tell that joke that you stopped me about on Tuesday, as it is related to the signatures of the reformers under this decision. The joke is as follows:? Explain Boyko Borisov and Lilyana Pavlova... [[Noise and lines from the Reformation Block.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u105	Guys, be quiet and let's hear the joke! Until we hear it, it won't end. So wait. [[Happy tidings, applause in RB and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u106	The sanitization in a Sofia neighborhood. Sitting Lilyana Pavlova and Boyko Borisov, explain, the citizens listen to those meetings that the MPs regularly organize, between four blocks. Excuse me, I understand everything, but, Prime Minister, I don't understand which block you're going to start from, which of the four blocks you're going to start from? Boyko Borisov told him: "You didn't understand anything. Of course we'll start at the Reformation Unit. [[Noise, lines and shouts from RB.]] So obviously the companies around the Reformation Block have also joined the action "Saniate and sponsor". We demand to see how they will vote, how they will support our proposal for civil control, our proposal for the introduction of the renovation programme to Parliament, where it needs to be discussed, and on who voted by the four partners, we will draw conclusions on how the deal called "sanction" will be divided. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u107	Mrs. Manolova, I just didn't understand which point you want separately to be voted on by your Project Decision. They're in five points. You didn't introduce them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u108	For civil control.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u109	The fifth point. Colleagues, a second draft for a decision was submitted by 53 MPs from the parliamentary groups of GERB, the Reformist Block coalition and the ABB group on 18 February 2015, Wednesday, and sent the same day to the MPs in electronic form. This draft decision will be presented by Mr. Dobromir Prodanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u110	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! We are debating the issue of the Energy Efficiency Programme, and we are trying to shift the subject from the beginning. This may be normal, but not from the point of view of experienced politicians. In order to avoid unnecessary talk and in order to avoid demagogy, we have submitted our draft decisions, which will certainly benefit the National Program and will even benefit colleagues who are against it, in order to once again hear what it is. Dear colleagues, it is a fact that the housing fund in the Republic of Bulgaria is extremely outdated, the fact is that urgent measures and means are needed for its renovation. Only the so-called "panal housing" is more than 700 thousand in number. In the last six years, only two initiatives have been taken on the renovation of multi-family residential buildings. The first was the project "Demonstrative renovation of multi-family residential buildings" which the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the UN Development Project implemented. The second project was the Energy update of the Bulgarian homes. However, these two initiatives were with extremely limited financial resources somewhere around 80 million. lv. Total. On 2 February 2015, the Council of Ministers adopted a National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings with Decree No 18. For the first time and only within less than 100 days of the formation of this government was adopted an important and important act for the Bulgarian society. The terms and conditions for granting the grant under the Programme were approved and the bodies responsible for its implementation were designated. The Government of the Republic of Bulgaria secured a financial resource of 1 billion. BGN, with which for the first time in Bulgaria will be implemented a large-scale program for the renovation of Bulgarian homes in all 265 municipalities in the country. An initiative which the Member States of the European Union and countries of our neighbours have long undertaken and achieved exceptional results in energy efficiency and improvement of the housing fund. All multi-family residential buildings built by industrial means are eligible for participation in the National Energy Efficiency Programme, namely large-scale residential construction, package-lifting plates, large-scale formage, crawling formage and all their varieties with a minimum of 36 separate housing sites. In order to reassure colleagues who abuse the figure of 36 independent sites, I will say that from 2016 the implementation of the National Programme will be combined with the envisaged financial resources for renovating residential buildings under the Operational Programme. The National Energy Efficiency Programme aims to ensure better living conditions for citizens, thermal comfort and overall higher quality of living environment by implementing energy efficiency measures. The implementation of the Programme will achieve a reduction in the heating costs of Bulgarian households, an overall improvement of residential infrastructure, a replacement of our cities, as well as a cleaner environment due to savings of greenhouse gas emissions. The National Programme allows for a complete renovation of buildings, including not only energy efficiency measures, but also constructive strengthening where necessary. This, in turn, will undoubtedly lead to an extension of the life of buildings and an increase in their value. In addition, I would say that the programme will also have a serious economic effect related to providing more business opportunities for economic activity, including designers, technical research companies, energy efficiency companies, materials manufacturers, builders. It is important to know that small and medium-sized companies will be able to participate throughout the country in the implementation of the activities under the National Programme, thus certainly and I think there is no doubt that additional employment will be provided. The programme will continue the steps for establishing traditions in the management of multi-family residential buildings and will increase public awareness of how to increase energy efficiency. At the same time, however, in order to prevent any possibility of obtaining a double preference from the owners of renovated and multi-family residential buildings that are renovated by public funds and to achieve equal treatment with the persons who are renovating their own funds, a legislative initiative should be initiated to amend art. 24, para. 1, t. 18 and so on. 20 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, according to which the exemption from property tax will not apply to buildings which have received a energy class certificate as a result of the energy efficiency measures taken financed by public funds. We believe that such a change in the Law on Local Taxes and Fees will achieve the balance between the interests of the state, municipalities, citizens in compliance with the principles of equality, neutrality and justice in tax taxation. In relation to what has been said above, in view of the importance of the National Programme and its exceptional effect expected in the field of renovation of residential buildings throughout the territory, we have proposed our draft decisions. We call on all colleagues for responsible behavior and support of our draft decisions in favour of the implementation of the most significant and large-scale project for renovation of residential buildings ever implemented in Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u111	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Colleagues, the two drafts for a decision have been presented. [[Reply from the National Representative Dobromir Prodanov.]] Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u112	Madam President, I ask you to put to the vote an admission procedure in Mr...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u113	There is no such possibility during parliamentary control. Thank you, colleague. [[Heckling]] I'm familiar with the request, but it's not gonna happen. I remind you that the forthcoming debates are for a good reason art. 101 of the Rules of Procedure, where in para. The last sentence is explicitly stated: "The time for discussion shall be distributed among the parliamentary groups depending on their numbers, and for the smallest of five minutes, and for the MPs not members of a parliamentary group shall be up to 5 minutes in total. As a result of this text, I announce to your attention the allocation of minutes by parliamentary groups and the time for non-members in parliamentary groups of MPs. The group of GERB has 12 minutes, the group of BSP left Bulgaria 8 minutes, the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms I recall that in the time of the groups, the lines and procedural questions are included, except those relating to the manner in which the sitting is conducted. In the time of the groups do not enter the duplicates of MPs, which have been replicated after their speeches. The debates shall be held only on the subject of the question and its response and on the corresponding draft decisions which have just been presented to us. Proposals for editorial changes in the two draft decisions may be made. The portfolio minister, in this case Mrs. Pavlova, as well as the other ministers present, may take attitude without a time limit................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ There must be a decision. With these reminders of the Rules of Procedure, I open the debate on the two draft decisions. Here you go, Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u114	Dear Madam President, ministers gentlemen, colleagues! I'm a polite man, but since Mrs. Manolova took the liberty of hanging up the Reformation Block pretty harshly, I'm going to take the liberty of answering her in the same style. Mrs. Manolova, if for each of your false, inaccurate or simply insolent claims you made 10 BGN. in the budget, we didn't need to draw any loans. [[Radio and applause by GERB and RB.]] I will also comment on the so-called civilian control. There's no more civil procedure than the one set out in the program. The forms are extremely simple........................................................................................................ by citizens. Their assessment becomes an elementary template, extremely transparent. On the other hand, I read in the Ministry's recommendations that the procedures themselves are only at a price, meaning there is no subjective moment. What are these citizens going to do? They're gonna guard the envelopes and make sure someone doesn't open them? Or will you change the Public Procurement Act where I do not feel strong, but I think it is very clear there who can participate in the relevant procedures and make the appropriate decision? About the program itself. It's a brave program, it's the first time you've done something like this. I'll back him up. I am not one of those MPs who can be accused of being the advertising face of the program because I have already entered a shootout with Minister Pavlova on various weaknesses of the program because there are. More importantly, not whether it is a left or right decision, but that it is a solution that needs, which is useful for people. I'm tired of looking at these panels that look like buildings like after a bombardment, falling facade elements, and no one takes any measures. The program is a great opportunity to work in this direction. For those who have not tried to read it and accuse it of political bias, the use of the program as a political instrument, I would like to say that this is the exact opposite of this programme, rather than playing a bad number on those who initiate and conduct it. Do you know why? In October are the local elections. It takes place in two stages. The first is an energy audit and a constructive audit of the buildings that are subject to the programme. That only takes a few months. If there are appeals, surely things go after the elections, meaning what will the programme buy voters? The voter understands this: to come to change the image, to turn its common parts on, to make the block look beautiful like a facade, then yes, surely, if everything goes well and comes to that. Only by the local elections, there's only one person who's gonna hit the apartments, throw a bullet and make a reading. After that, there are already many traps in the program itself. Imagine that there are prescriptions: "Okay, we're changing your window, but under the window of the terrace you built concrete, come on, now you finance it and change your railings."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u115	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u116	So you're gonna change that, too?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u117	You've got it all wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u118	It's my favorite part of this program to be told that I don't understand things. I must be the only one in this room who is aware of the three industrial tools used in the construction of these blocks, for the three main systems such as Tolstoy, the Russian and Burgas and so on, with their weak spots and with what can happen, but this is another topic. I quite benevolently say that there are moments in the program that can be avoided in order not to get into any problems with people. Colleagues, I call on you to support the decision that has been signed by MPs from the Reformation Bloc and GERB and to allow a good attempt to happen in the country, because I am convinced that it needs it. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u119	Colleagues, it was no coincidence that I recalled the rules and announced that the duplicates and personal explanations did not come in time, which was a warning not to enter names for the plenary time of control, which is valuable to us. However, Mrs Manolova was mentioned anyway. She wants a personal explanation, I can't say no. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u120	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Markov! I am ready not only when the Reformation Bloc is affected, but to import every day into a box of 10 levs, if this will prevent the withdrawal of the 16 billion debt of the Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u121	This is beyond the subject of the debate, Mrs. Manolova. Stick to the topic of debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u122	Because it is no accident that the national program of GERB for renovation is known among the citizens as a national programme for buying local elections. [[Strong noise, livening and speech from GERB.]] The fact that the Reformation Block supports this programme, the fact that it is clear from your statement that you will not support civil oversight committees on the whole process shows only one thing that the Reformation Block is ready to join in the deal called "Sanning." I suppose that you, as a former deputy mayor of Burgas, are very aware of how public procurement is conducted, how they are earned, which companies have an advantage and perhaps this is one of the regions that, according to the distribution of coalition partners, is in the area from which the Reformation Block will benefit. In fact, I didn't continue the joke I told, because apparently after the Reformation Bloc follows the ABB.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u123	Mrs. Manolova, let's have a joke a day.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u124	Perhaps the patriots will join us. I look forward to hearing their position on the so-called free renovations, which will also be paid by the socially weak Bulgarian citizens. It is really disappointing that the reformers, who were for transparency, for openness, for publicity, against the deal and for fair elections, joined GERB's national programme for buying local elections. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u125	They raise their hands to Mrs. Snezana Dukova and Mr. Lazarov. Here you are, Mrs. Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u126	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Minister! Neither the extreme nor the exotic statements of Mrs. Manolova will convince the colleagues...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u127	But she won a personal explanation, Mrs. Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u128	...that the brothers Galevi are an adequate topic for today's debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u129	Mrs. Dukova, the procedure is in the manner in which I am awaiting reproach.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u130	Neither the begging staffs, nor the leaflets, Madam President, tastelessly made, will be able to increase the result of the people who were before parliament, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u131	What should I do, Mrs. Dukova? You have criticism of me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u132	Dear ministers, the dogs are barking, the caravan is leaving, and ours is running! [[Arrival in GERB.]] Work and do what you do, because the Bulgarian people expect it from you and you will do it. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u133	Mr. Lazarov, in the manner of conduct. You have no desire. Mrs. Jankova, in the manner of conduct, I suppose. You want a statement, I'll give you the floor. Before that it was Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u134	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u135	Further, ma'am! [[Laughter]] There'll be more...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u136	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen! There are many questions about this solution, but one is extremely important, because every management doctrine means to reward those who are enterprising and those who do something good and punish those who do something bad. What happens to those who have been more enterprising and have reacted more quickly than others and have already done the renovation of their blocks or their houses? This is nowhere in the decision, which means that those who have been more progressive in Bulgaria will not be encouraged in any way, but paid for at their own expense. This is something extremely important that I want attention to in this decision. There are, of course, many other questions that each of us must be asking, since we are in one of the first places on corruption. There's no way this doesn't make an impression and there's no questions about it, and we shouldn't close our eyes. Therefore, all technologies must be used to exclude by presumption what everyone is doubting and speaking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u137	Replices to Mr. Binev? I won't. [[Relations of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov to the National Representative Slavcho Binev.]] Mrs. Dora Yankova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u138	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, indeed, a good deed in which we, as opposition, wanted to protect the government, would happen more fairly. The ruling quadruple coalition is about to harden here in the proposal to support the national programme without being distributed without being discussed in committees and actually giving it a move as it goes. Dear colleagues, Mrs. Minister, Mr. Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers! I want to share why we want a national programme of the entire building fund, to calm people down. This is the first offer we've made. The second was precisely to amend the Programme, which is now being discussed. You must know that 18,900 are buildings built on one-panel technology. With the funds you now provide, that is, we provide the Bulgarian people, 1 billion. BGN, which will be restored in the Bulgarian Bank for Development from the budget...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u139	Who's "we"?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u140	...by 36 apartments, is an approximate account about 300,000 per block. I mean, we're going from two thousand to three thousand, no more, housing blocks are going to be renovated. I wish Mrs. Pavlova to be really business and active, taking into account the delay of the Programme, about 200 blocks, God forbid, 250 blocks. According to the program that you have written in the reasons and I think it is necessary to comment more on the Operational Program "Regions in Growth" we have 68 cities that are elective. When we put about 300 million. BGN, we will sanitize another 100, let's say 200, since there is a qualifying for the first time, under 36 apartments. Or, dear colleagues, we will have the opportunity, with the most savings, with the best organization with this resource, to renovate up to 3,000 housing blocks. Of 18,900, that's less than 20%. When we want a national programme, you realize that this is an expectation in a huge group of people - about 700 thousand Bulgarian citizens -- that is, all of us -- will have the opportunity to sanitize the dwellings of about 400 thousand. [[GERB's line.]] Yeah, 700 are the apartments, but I'm talking about the apartment blocks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u141	Not the apartments.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u142	I would like to share something else from here as a concern about why we want civilian control. Eighty-three per cent of the panel buildings are in the district cities and 50% are in the four cities of Sofia, Plovdiv, Burgas and Varna. Our great concern is the distortion of selection. I turn from this tribune to all Bulgarian citizens! Be active, we're watching. Even on the electronic medium, before a little while I opened the Bulgarian Development Bank 36 projects were submitted by a group of municipalities. So far, there's not a single signed contract. We will see whether these 36 will be assessed immediately and whether this will be done fairly. Our great concern, which we wanted to protect you from, by adopting this programme, is to give a longer horizon, people to calm down or you, as you have become hardened, to assume responsibility that there will be a large activity of about 18,000 residential blocks and you will have to make a political reduction of about 2600 to 3000 residential blocks, and the rest will strain them, dear friends. Therefore, when we submit our proposal, it was the Council of Ministers by the end of April to submit a national programme for the entire building fund as it is in Bulgaria. There, however, should be added the public one. In the way we are now debating yes, there are large reserves in the operational programs, and there are also for the public building fund, to have the opportunity to do so. Secondly, this programme, which has been tabled by the Council of Ministers and approved by the Council of Ministers, is to come here and relieve it of its liability under the first of law, under the second of law, of having the opportunity to support and support this process. Yeah, it's a good thing. Next. I understand that you have accepted from us the proposals for municipal taxes. We'll keep an eye on the electronic register, I'll let you know. Since you do not allow civil control, we will create parliamentary control and we will monitor the entire electronic medium, we will monitor the contracts and we will also insist and continue to insist on taking down some of your responsibility, give more opportunity for civil control. [[GERB's line.]] These things I wanted to share with you that we wanted to protect you from these things. I address the Bulgarian citizens! Participate in the program, it will be paid by the entire Bulgarian people. At the moment this is a distorted programme, it is not on the principle of solidarity. But since the ruling coalition has decided to govern in this way, dear Bulgarian citizens, nearly 3 000 housing blocks will be financed.. We warn you, compete because 15 000 of these 18 700 will not be sanitized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u143	- What's the line? I won't. For a statement, Mr. Lazarov? Mrs. Petya Avramova was before you, I don't know what happened there.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u144	Honourable Madam President, Dear Ministers, Dear Mr. Deputy Minister! What are we listening to here? Known things: We will build Belene, but when we come to power, we will not build it; we will do family income taxation, but when we come to power, we will not do it; we promise that we will do this, but when we come to power, we will not do it. We now support this programme, we call on citizens, but let us postpone in time in a time horizon to do nothing. We're familiar with that. This is familiar to us from a fairy policy when we promise, promise, promise, and at some point after that we do nothing because we are in power. That's what we're talking about, and it's typical.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u145	On the subject, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u146	On the subject, Mr. Lazarov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u147	That's the subject, Mrs. Tsacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u148	No, that's not the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u149	Let's postpone, support this program, but we'll postpone it in one time horizon, transfer responsibility.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u150	Thank you. Time is very limited.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u151	Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u152	You enter the time of colleagues who want to take the matter into consideration. Mrs. Petya Avramova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u153	Can we do this in the way we're supposed to do it first?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u154	Maybe in the manner of conduct, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Secretary! I would very much like to ask Mrs. Tsacheva, as Mrs. Manolova is an importer and in her speech she deviated from the topic and used expressions [[BSP LB lines]] and suggestions on which we, as the importer of her decision, address her very much, ask that any reference to her not be taken as an excuse for a personal explanation. That's the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u156	This application is outside the prescribed rules of procedure. I accept the request, and there's no way I can keep it. It violates the rules. Proceed now as a statement on the substance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u157	This is the most useful and the project with the longest effect in the new history, which is aimed at private property buildings. Through this programme, the government has shown that the state's commitment can not only be roads, kindergartens and schools, which the government of GERB has always been committed to doing, but these can also be buildings built during socialist construction, which are a problem not only in Bulgaria, but in other countries with such construction. However, in these countries the problem is solved, while in Bulgaria we still have to create an organization to solve this problem. We cannot be idle, and that is why GERB has placed this programme in its election program and is now simply fulfilling its commitment. A few words for the purpose of the program. From 30 to 50% lower heating bills in each apartment of a building with implemented energy efficiency measures. These funds, fellow Members, will remain with the people. Construction-fortified buildings following a technical constructive survey, prescribed measures and implemented construction and installation activities that will extend the life of the building and ensure the safety of those living therein. Benefits for the construction business, for traders, for manufacturers of building materials, for the production of windows, work for architects, engineers involved in designing. I have listed the benefits because, honourable Members who are trying to sabotage the program, you do not realize what harm you do to people who will decide to believe you. They do not always realize that you are doing this not because the program is bad, but for purely political purposes to sabotage the enterprise of your political opponent. Some will believe and thus deprive not only themselves, but everyone living in the residential building of the benefits of this program. We, as we do not mourn the strength and time to explain to people the benefits of the program and the steps in its implementation, will make efforts and explain to people who tripped them, who lied to them, who prevented them and deprived them of the opportunity to participate in this programme, to have new windows, to have insulation of facades and roof, to have a fortified and secure building. Your lies will shine and I don't want to be in your place when these people see the sanitized neighboring block. I believe, honourable Members, that you have not read the methodical guidelines of the programme sufficiently well, which is evident from the proposals in your draft decision. It's cheap demagogy, fraud and hypocrisy. But we will continue to make efforts for the successful implementation of the program, because the benefits of our work will only be for the people who sent us to this room. Here I would like to thank Minister Pavlova, her team from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the well-organised information campaign, for the detailed, accessible procedures for participation in the Energy Efficiency Programme and wish them success. Today, I expect all of you, with your vote, to support the government's efforts to renovate residential buildings and to provide comfort to the citizens who, with their vote, have sent us to this House. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u158	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. - What's the line? There are no lines. To speak, the People's Representative Magdalena Tasheva. [[Voices: "O-o-o!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u159	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, I do not notice the Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I accept all the remarks that BSP colleagues have made about the fact that the programme is discriminatory, that there are large and unexplained, illogical moments in it, for example why people who have lost their homes in the floods should not receive from this billion-dollar aid package, but we will renovate the homes of people who have more than one home and so on. However, these shortcomings seem to me to be of a lower order. Their effect is somewhere in the second, third, fourth decimal places. On this program, the very legal basis is rotten. And I call on all Bulgarian citizens to read carefully the Law on Floor Property Management before making a decision. And when they read it, do not associate with the so-called owners' associations because they will lose their homes. [[Laughter at GERB.]] I'll explain how you're gonna do it. It's an old World Bank project. [[Arrival in GERB and RB.]] You just put it in another title. I repeatedly asked both Tomislav Donchev and Minister Pavlova: after the article. 9 of the Floor Property Management Act it is managed by a general meeting of owners and an association of owners, why only the owners' associations have the right to apply for renovations, and the general meetings do not. I haven't received an answer yet. Minister Pavlova said it was regulated. Well, yeah, that's what I'm asking: why is it so regulated? There's no answer. And the truth is that people are being pressured to join these non-profit legal entities simply because they can very easily, for example, under Ordinance No 5 of 28 December 2006 to be burdened with debt and liquidated. In the event of liquidation, according to art. Thirty-seven of the U.S.U.S....
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u160	Mrs. Tasheva, let me remind you, I'm sorry to interrupt, but we are discussing two drafts for a decision, neither the ZUES nor Decree No 5, nor the Floor Property Act. Please stick to the subject. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u161	Of course, this is what I want to explain, that the legal basis is rotten. I can't help but quote laws. In accordance with art. 37 of the Law on the Management of Floor Property, the owners' associations are liquidated under the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities. Articles 13, 14 and 15 of this Law send us to the Commercial Law. I want to read you art. 13, para. Point 1 (c) of the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities: A non-profit corporate company, the owner's association, is terminated when it is declared bankrupt. Under Ordinance No 5 which I quoted to you, from 28 December 2006 to the end of 2015 all buildings which do not have a technical passport must receive one. And now I will read you a text from this regulation, to see not you, you know how Bulgarian citizens will be deprived of their homes: after the expiry of the deadlines, i.e. after 31 December 2015, the mayor of the municipality assigns the technical passports to the buildings that do not have one, and the issuance is at the expense of their owners, and the municipality is supplied with an executive list under art. 417 t. 1 of the Civil Procedure Code. Come on, read Articles 417 and 418, which says that when the application is submitted a document under art. 417 on which the claim is based, the creditor may request the court to order an immediate execution and issue an executive sheet! [[(Radio and lines from GERB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u162	Time, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u163	This is how you intend to take away people's homes, and these associations lead them to bankruptcy! Let the Bulgarians know what they're risking!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u164	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u165	By the way, I... [[The National Representative interrupts his speech due to the microphones being turned off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u166	Do you have any lines? There are no lines. National Representative Velizar Enchev for Speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u167	Mr. Chairman! Madam Minister, I specifically address you as some of your questions concern. Ladies and gentlemen! If I have to speak purely politically, I would say that what you are proposing, the government, politically, sounds like this: from some people's taxes money will be taken to fix other citizens' properties. That sounds political. But legally, how does the question sound? This idea of free sanitization cries a lot for the Constitutional Court because a fundamental right is being violated here, and it is with the money from all taxpayers benefit not more than one eighth of the people who will receive this sanitization. I'm quoting you. 6 paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Constitution, where it says that all people are born free and equal in dignity and rights! Where are the rights of those who will not benefit from this initiative? The citizens are equal by birth and are not allowed to limit their property status! This paragraph is not known to you either, and I hope that people will be found in this National Assembly to attack this measure before the Constitutional Court. According to experts, honourable colleagues, and according to many experts, the programme is good only for EPC blocks, as for panel panels is absurd. You pour money mostly in appearance, and the main problem and the most expensive one remains on the second floor. [[Reply by MP Delyan Dobrev.]] He wonders: what these people will gain, and perhaps Minister Pavlova will best answer us. Since I hear calls from the Chamber, let them hear the opinion of the Chamber of Architects. Why isn't there a single architect in this parliament? Do you ever wonder why? Why isn't there a single artist? Why are the people of this most representative, intelligent Bulgarian guild not represented? [[GERB lines.]] The Chamber of Architects. As there is no representative of them, listen to: Some of the recommendations. "They say to Mrs. Pavlova's Ministry about the organization of public procurement under the Programme create conditions for higher prices and for corruption practices. An example is directed to select a designer and builder with a general contract and to assign the execution to engineers. So the contractor offers himself a project and performs it himself, Mrs. Pavlova. Secondly, there should be, according to this Chamber of Architects, a public register for the contracts with designers, as there are municipalities - it is a public secret, Mrs. Dora Yankova best knows as a former mayor who works with only one or two architects and is expected the municipality to direct the order to them. I really liked the comparison that Mrs. Maya Manolova made. This is the formula for this vicious project. Sanim, we subsidize selected Bulgarian citizens in violation of the Constitution and, of course, the companies of the close to the government. Let me also say something very important, to the right. Since you have a right ideology, you should support what I'm going to read. With 100% cost coverage, ladies and gentlemen, this is irrational, first. As with companies, it is unacceptable for the State to provide aid, State aid is prohibited, and for citizens such a measure is potentially subject to judicial authority. Besides, Mrs. Pavlova, how exactly did you set the decision line to sanitize blocks with only 36 apartments, not, say, 30 apartments? Finally, let me tell you -- you all know -- it's a public secret, the sanitization affects the four big cities of Sofia, Plovdiv, Burgas and Varna, where the mayors are from GERB party and they hope to win with this measure again. However, I ask myself: How will you justify this essentially left-wing measure, as your ideology is entirely right, and it is a left-wing populist measure? And you, the right, are against left populism categorically. I do not ask at all the Patriot Front how it will justify all of this, as they justify and support everything proposed by the GERB party. And if they support what is happening today, if they support another Bill, which we will be watching next week for 16 billion, they must change their name from the Patriotic front of the Monetary Fund. Congratulations! If!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u168	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? I won't. The next speech is from the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov. You have the floor, Mr. Bayraktarov. You have four minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, honourable gentlemen and ladies ministers! The patriotic front, as you know, has always been a responsible, nationally responsible coalition. And unlike you, Mr. Enchev, we always deal with exact numbers and exact names. In fact, to inform you that an actor in the National Assembly has and his name is Stefan Danailov. But it's just for you because you're not taught to read. Today I would like to put a few disturbing questions to you, Mrs. Pavlova. [[Replica from Minister Lilyana Pavlova, coming out of the hall.]] You'll come, but my time is running out, and it's nice to hear these things. In fact, honourable Members, I would like to refer to an official document which is called a report by Lilyana Pavlova on the Programme format for Budget 2015 and a forecast for 2016 This document is 94 pages. I'm worried about what's written on page 20 in a tab, and more specifically in point. 8. Firstly, honourable Members, Minister, it is apparent from the table that no renovation of buildings is envisaged for 2015! 548 buildings are planned to be renovated. It is even more interesting for me because in the column of this tablet is recorded buildings with improved energy performance. Does this mean that we're going to install 548 buildings that have already improved energy performance? I don't understand, but it's written in this document. In other words, I understand that for 2015 no renovation is envisaged for the year 2016. 548 buildings. And here it is even more disturbing that if you divide these 548 buildings into the declared format of 36 homes, it is obtained, honourable Members, that a flat will be sanitized at the modest price of 101 thousand. lv. And I ask: how, in what way are these things at stake? Because, dear Mr. Enchev, we read and worry. We want to get that information and it's well-encrypted for all the MPs. We read till 3:00, until 4:00 in the morning, 24/7. That's how it works! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u170	Colleagues, to recall the time available to the groups: GERB [[Noise and lines.]] What do you want? A personal explanation? Has it been mentioned since we switched and I haven't heard from you myself? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u171	Mr. Bayraktarov, since you mentioned my name twice, I will not mention your name, but only again will I... [[Radio, laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u172	Once again, I know you're out of your league!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u173	Again, I will ask you: in the thick book of the Bible, you will recognize them in their deeds. Mr. Bayraktarov, answer: how will you vote? We listen to your elaines words, how nice and expert you speak. Please answer us: how will you vote? Many times in this Chamber and in the relevant committees you speak wonderfully, but when it comes to voting, you always vote with the government, with your triple coalition, so this response is particularly important, Mr. Bajraktarov: how will the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front vote not only today, but also in the next few days for the 16 billion?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u174	To make a statement, Mr. Ramadan Atalay has the word. [[Noise and lines.]] Guys, let's not go in there... In order to address someone who mentioned his name in a personal explanation, there is no way that this could happen without stating to whom and what it is about. You have the floor, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, there was a call for responsible behaviour. That's good. Let all colleagues hear that this tribune is a holy place, and anyone who comes out here should have prepared himself from the evening. We're talking about sanitization, even some coworkers have turned around to sanitize whole blocks, and politically! There must be people, individual MPs, who also need to be sanitized. [[Radio.]] This is a separate problem, but, Madam President, this debate is a very serious debate. The debate on energy efficiency in Bulgaria dates back to 2007. In 2008 are the first directives of the European Union. Bulgaria then adopted the Law on Energy Efficiency and in this Law there was one article. 19, where we had legally authorised how funds can be allocated from public taxes to meet those requirements of the European Union directives. Mrs. Pavlova, you're going to corrupt a very nice activity you're starting. Then you canceled art. 19 of the Law on Energy Efficiency and at the moment all that is piled on your head and on your entire political system is that you do not have a legal base on which you will absorb 1 billion. lv. I am one of the biggest supporters to happen the renovation of those blocks, which in terms of energy efficiency have a zero degree. This thing, colleagues, countries like Germany and all those Eastern European countries that have the same problem, have found legal form and, in one way or another, have fulfilled this obligation. Mrs. Pavlova, you will corrupt him, because the road to hell, you know, is full of good intentions, and we are all here with good intentions, but if we continue to do so, one of us, on the left side, the political power to work so that the sanitization doesn't happen, and you continue to break the laws, I'm sure that someday we will talk that the road to hell is sanitized with good intentions. You have no legal form. You must do everything possible and I believe that today, if you accept this decision that your colleagues on the left or your rewritten proposal offer, for one reason or another, you will legitimize those things that the Council of Ministers did on 6 February. There'll be legal form now. Honourable Members, since 2008, I personally, every year, in the budget of each government, want to be allocated within 50 million in order to carry out the energy audit. Without the energy audit, without technical characteristics, without complete such documentation there is no way to begin, to proceed to this good work. Indeed, you, when you canceled art. 19 of the Energy Efficiency Act, and from 2009 until now, you reject this request of ours every year because it was a legal form in order for the renovation of buildings to take place and the introduction, the demand for energy efficiency. Otherwise, we're all convinced, colleagues. We all know that these blocks under the requirements of the European Union directive must be renovated, but initially we had to start with public buildings of over 1000 square meters. The area is wide open. And today I ask myself: how many public, state buildings, including the energy efficiency of this National Assembly, Mrs. Tsacheva, can you tell us whether it has been implemented and do you take into account the requirements of the relevant directive whether this building is within the limits of the energy efficiency requirements? The answer is clear: no. Also, colleagues, the next directive is already in effect, which brought down energy efficiency requirements to 50 sq. Energy efficiency will reach every single house, colleagues. The protection of the environment and the sanitization of the single family houses should reach it, but here I ask myself the question: how and by what criteria, Mrs. Pavlova, have you chosen 36 apartments? And immediately a question arises: why, for example, in the municipality of Kubrat and the Testament there are four blocks that have 35 apartments, and in Sofia there are no blocks that are below 35 apartments? It is these criteria that you have chosen, including thinking that the renovation of buildings and the introduction of energy efficiency is the work of only one political force, that is my reason to doubt that you will corrupt this system. You know very well that those meetings that you make them do not know whether between four blocks or in the cafes, these blocks live not only fans and voters of GERB. And I ask you, colleagues, that energy efficiency be that case, that thing that unites the nation. If we are looking for how and how to distinguish ourselves from it, it is only in its legal form, in nothing else, colleagues. Therefore, our appeal is: let us go by legal provisions, to implement the European Union directives, to renovate those residential buildings for which there is a need, because if Bulgaria sanitizes and implements the Energy Efficiency Programme, I like to repeat: Bulgaria will not need a new power of 2000 megawatts. It will not be necessary to build either the VI block of the nuclear power plant or some others for which we still expect certain cases to pass. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Mrs. Tsacheva, the question of sanitization is really a common case. Let GERB enter to look at their yard and all those documents they have made, whether they are in legal form. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Don't forget the sanitization of some of our colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u176	Is that required of me as a program, Mr. Atalay? [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u177	If you can help.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u178	If you help me. To speak, there is Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u179	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Among the many words, most of them empty of content, it did not become clear what the problem was. The problem is that in Bulgaria there are thousands of panel housings. Why are there thousands of panel housings in Bulgaria? He ran the BCP and this was the policy of the BCP, now inherited from the BSP. [[Applause from GERB. Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Thousands of panel homes, and they haven't been sanitized for years. Why aren't they sanitizing? In order to be able to make projects such as Belene, such as the VI block of "Kozloduy," which I have not heard anyone protest that two billion have disappeared. With these two billion spent on Belene, half of the blocks in Bulgaria could be sanitized. But apparently the money is sinking better there, and in the end it's still the gourmet and you can't see the result. [[Relations from the National Representative Maya Manolova.]] That is why we in the Reformation bloc insist on the following things to Minister Pavlova. To have publicity on all contracts. To have the publicity then of the results to see the difference how the money spent on sanitization leads to modern blocks, constructively improved. Let's do this because if we don't solve the problem of thousands of people living in panel blocks, these people will stay on the street, and they are not to blame. They are not responsible for managing the BCP and misleading them, and did not tell them that the life of a panel block is limited and that at some point, if there is no sanitization in which the state should participate, because it is solidarity responsible for what is done, these people remain on the street. And today, energy efficiency, honourable Members, is such a big pain in the ass for these people because they don't want it. Energy efficiency will permanently remove the need to do this, the need to do this, the VI block of "Kozloduy" to spend billions of dollars with huge "Belene" is the real problem. And because energy efficiency puts an end to this question forever, plus it helps thousands of people cut their electricity and heat bills. [[the President signals that time has run out]] It will never be acceptable to certain parliamentary groups. But, Mrs. Pavlova, it is important that these programs be implemented transparently, publicly and finally the result be on your website.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u180	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u181	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, it is evident that you have finally understood how difficult it is to sanitize what the BCP has built. Good thing you had it BCP so you'd have something to sanitize and people where to live.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u182	Your group has one minute. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] There are protesters from your group that you eat the time of your group, Mr. Popov. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] On behalf of the ABB group, we have not heard from the MPs. [[Noise and lines.]] Sorry, that was a line, mate. A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u183	Mrs. Tsacheva, the BSP colleagues wanted to hear more from my argumentation, so it was this short line. Thanks for her. [[Applause, laughter and excitement in GERB.]] It was in place. Honourable Members, the question is this. As long terms of management of BSP and DPS nothing was sanitized and nothing was done if we continue this way, what will happen? Thousands of people at one point remain on the street. [[Relations from the National Representative Maya Manolova.]] And I cannot understand the protest that a number of parliamentary groups are making right now. Thousands of people will remain on the street, and what the left-wings have said so far that they have sanitized in total under this programme and under European programmes 20% of the blocks. Well, we should start somewhere. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Besides, 20% is a good result. Then another 20 and so until all panel blocks are constructively reinforced so that they do not present a risk from one point on, and are sanitized. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Next question. This is the only way to reduce electricity and heating bills to thousands of people living in panel blocks and in EPCs. Their accounts will actually be lowered immediately. And certain parliamentary groups are worried that these people will understand the difference between billions wasted on Belene and wasted on South Stream and money given for concrete results. The result is a block that looks good and in which people, by living, the electric bill and the heating bill will be reduced by up to 50% real to each person. There is a huge difference between the policy that the left-wings were leading and this policy that we are now proposing as a centre-right government.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u184	You're the one offering it? You're so far from the truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u185	But, Mrs. Pavlova, it is very important that the results are presented in public areas so that they can be traced. To see the result for example for Kyustendil, for Sofia, for every city where there are dwellings that are sanitized, to see what was before and what was after. To see how billions can be spent with a concrete result for Bulgarian citizens and how billions were wasted by left-wing governments without any result. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] And finally, Mrs. Pavlova. This resistance won't stop. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] It won't stop because these people have seen that the Belene programme is not working, now they want to build the VI block of the "Kozloduy" and understand that this and the European program, which will allow the renovation of about 20%, and perhaps more, of the panel blocks, will eliminate the need for Bulgaria to build new nuclear facilities at all. This is a very serious problem for certain parliamentary groups, so do not expect the resistance to stop. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] There will be no national consensus on this subject, but you have enough support, and it is clear that these measures will be implemented. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u186	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u187	Madam President, I take the floor in the manner of conduct. I have a question for you: why did you interrupt our colleague's line at the very first sentence and explain to him that he was eating the time of the group and not letting him speak? Explain to me, please, what did this sermon have to do with us here in three minutes? [[Applause and lines from BSP LB]] With the coworker's line, who just explained that for all that was built by the BCP, 10 years wouldn't be enough for this department to sanitize it? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB and banging on banks. Noise and lines by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u188	I'll answer you, Mr. Zafirov. There was a protest by MPs from your group at Mr. Popov's exit. They probably allocated the time to the debate participants, which is why I took the liberty of reminding him that the time for reply is coming into the group's time. But if you're holding that I gave Mr. Martin Dimitrov an opportunity for the backdrop wrong, you're wrong. Two seconds' cue wins three minutes' backs, and with that I think experienced parliamentarians like Mr. Popov are aware. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] I can't oblige anyone to respond in the way he found fit. I stick to Mr. Ramadan Atalay's proposal for a meaningful debate on the subject. Please, you have the floor. Go ahead, Mr. Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u189	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Ministers! As the newest in this Parliament, when talking about such an important and practical topic, I think that populism should not be used as a form of communication. I'm telling you this with all my purity and I'm putting my hand on my heart. As far as the subject is concerned, due to the fact that I am a member of the 14th multi-mandated Pernik region and I have personally experienced an earthquake, respectively the recovery after such a cruel natural disaster, I believe that this programme, which we are currently discussing, is useful for society and especially for areas such as ours. After the earthquake, we received a lot of international assistance in this particular direction, and international assistance from such capacities that had survived and more serious earthquakes, such as capacity from Japan. What they have explained to us and what, in my opinion, Minister Pavlova, is very important is that the constructive strengthening and constructive surveillance of the buildings be done very perfectly by serious professionals, because all subsequent actions that are being taken in connection with the renovations become meaningless when the constructive strengthening has not been done sufficiently professionally. In this sense, there is a legal rule according to which co-owners or members of the floor property shall designate a technical person to monitor such constructive strengthening. Please make a wide use of the support of the Chamber of Builders, because not all the persons of interest I say this in their everydayity to a lawyer understand exactly from the concept of "constructive strengthening." I pay attention to this subject on purpose, because I believe that there is probably a similar problem in the areas that have been flooded too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u190	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Delyan Dobrev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u191	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen ministers, colleagues, young people from Haskovo and Sliven! I did not see much meaning in the debate we had today and the loss of nearly two hours of this National Assembly. You've heard what we've seen in the last two months. [[Reply of National Representative Maya Manolova.]] The opposition is panicking. It's panicking because for the first time, some government is going to do something for people, but it's just for people, not to explain to them that it's for people, but to be some kind of state policy. [[Applause from GERB.]] They understand that in a year's time, when the effect of this 1 billion is seen, the thousands of buildings that will be renovated in Bulgaria, the change in the image of the cities, the savings from each household, then people will start asking themselves questions. "If by 1 billion can be done so much, what could be done with those 2 billion for Belene, with that 1 billion for the Tsankov Stone, with the 6 billion in 2007 and 2008?.......................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u192	They took the pensioners to the seaside!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u193	You are talking about that 1 billion will be spent on a small part of the buildings, and will be paid by everyone that there was no sanction to the National Assembly. What about your 500 million-dollar development program?! All the citizens paid for it again! And where did the money go? Did anyone find out what's being financed with that 500 million?! We can give you examples. It is understood in some villages in Burgas. Here we have colleagues from Burgas. They can tell you that in Burgas were built pools in small settlements, in villages where there are no children.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u194	There are grandmothers!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u195	And old people, not to say grandmothers, joke that they purposely build them a pool so that when they are desperate... [[Laughter and excitement in GERB.]] Specifically on the subject. Colleagues are desperate. They started with anonymous flyers first. They were putting these anonymous flyers in the mailboxes...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u196	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u197	And I am telling all Bulgarian citizens, those who decide to give up participation in the program because of the arguments of colleagues, to remember very well who talked them out of participating in the program. Because, as one colleague said, the time will come when the block will be sanitized to the neighbors and theirs will not be sanitized. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u198	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u199	Dear colleagues, debates like today very clearly show why people do not trust the Bulgarian Parliament. Because he's turning into a small talk, into a little prank, a little prank. People watch it on TV and say, "They're all masqueraders!" There's nothing to lie about. The idea of renovation of buildings is a very good idea that should have been made a long time ago. Yes, it could have been done a few years ago, when 70% of that money was given by EU funds. But what do you get? The government gives an idea, BSP colleagues are against it in general, because it is the government's idea of being worried that someone will accumulate political dividends from it. [[Reply of National Representative Maya Manolova]] . Listen to me. Others come out with fear of the people about how they will take away their dwellings. Third, they have a grudge against their former colleagues who left for no reason. Fourth, fifth... and so on. That's why, fellow Members, Parliament is on this level. Of course, GERB sees that BSP import something.. I will not mention names so as not to give the right for personal explanation............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Colleagues, this is an important issue, it is useful for the state, let us earn political dividends. They gave birth to this idea. There's nothing wrong with that. The important thing is to do the job. The important thing is, after the work is done, however, that people remain satisfied and there is no doubt that some friendly companies have been lured along with this program. [[National Representative Krasimir Jankov applauded.]] This does not happen with such elementary plays in the plenary, from which only and only Parliament's rating falls. That's why this building says, "The Unity makes the power."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u200	It's written on the coat of arms!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u201	Yeah, it says so on the coat of arms. There are important things we don't have to play left and right. As Levski said, I don't care if you're a good person, but if you're a good Bulgarian! Let's like some normal Bulgarians on similar issues find an opportunity for some consensus. If something is good and useful, let's sit down and talk human, not look for cheap political dividends from one or another. Come on, I'm not going to use the qualifications of the retail and so on. That's what everybody loses to. Finally, however, the Bulgarian citizens lose. So 25 years after such quarrels in Bulgaria, the Bulgarian state is the poorest, the Bulgarians are the fastest to escape, the fastest to die! That's the way it is! This room was generating nihilism and opposition! That's the reason!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u202	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Manol Genov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u203	Madam President, I want you to be condescending to the weather, as the coworkers have been very vocal. I'll just say one thing. From this high tribune, I would like to say that our group, our MPs, fully support the programme and call on people, as colleague Iankova said, to participate. I don't know about pools, but I have memories of sanitization and energy efficiency from a Haskovo NGO, which for 5 million. lv. sanitizes the fences of two schools [[partial applause from BSP LB]] , with the same 5 million. lv. Nine municipal sites were renovated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u204	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Are there any lines to his statement? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u205	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As far as I am participating in this Parliament for the first time, I feel like we're walking along the momentum for spent money ever for fountains and bridges, last year for other asphalt roads, about 500 million and other money. I would like to speak as an alumni of the Construction Technicum in Veliko Tarnovo. You can't start at the top. In principle, in ABB, we support this wonderful idea of energy efficiency. But it still feels like we're starting from above. The money has already been determined by the contracting authority.. The Council of Ministers. That's where we set 3,000. housing. Let's do, dear Minister, the algorithm for these things. Clear is the contracting authority of the government, the districts, municipalities. It's about the constructive assessment. The constructive assessment is very important and there is already a dispute in the Chamber of Architects. It must be independent, after which, the design should in all cases start on the basis of this constructive assessment. We should not only adorn the buildings, effectively improve and then not appreciate the load. Please, I believe that engineering or combining design and builders from the same companies is disastrous. We need an algorithm with multi-level control, which the ABC welcomes, as I said, it is clear how the contracting entity will spend the money, and in the end the builder does not end. There must be independent control. If this algorithm is respected, we will, in any case, widely and actively welcome this entire Programme. Thank you and I believe that this division will be very appropriate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u206	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs from the groups that have time? I don't see anyone who wants to. Madam Minister, questions have been asked. Are you gonna answer that? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u207	Mrs. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for the opportunity today to have this debate on the subject, albeit heated. Obviously, the theme of sanitization is not only current and important, a topic that woke up including the possibility of jokes, lines, jokes, even jokes on the subject of sanitization. If all this will contribute to being more positive and looking forward, I can only be happy to do so and thanks to this Programme. Speaking specifically about all issues, comments and criticisms, I will try to respond to most of them outside purely political demagogy and banter, to call them. Let us say a few important facts important to all Bulgarian citizens who are following and interested in this topic and this debate. The topic of energy efficiency, the topic of the renovation of the housing fund in the country has been up to date for many years, for tens of years, since 2004. So any, I would say, demagogy on the topic of how you support it, but since there is no programme on which to develop it, there is no vision, there is no strategy, as other colleagues have said, there is no legal basis. There's no such thing! You all know that very well! Let's not pretend to be short-lived. Bulgaria has its National strategy for renovating the housing fund since 2004. Since 2005 Bulgaria has a National program for renovating the entire housing fund, which you are now proposing to sign. It's a fact and it's there! This National Programme is for the period 2005-2020 and it is approved. So I don't see what kind of demagogy we're talking about today. However, the bad thing is that no one in the years back did what was necessary, did not make enough for this Programme to be implemented and this Programme to be financially secured for it to happen. Another beautifully written document without real mechanisms happening, being implemented and financed. What do you suggest today? To implement the Programme, which was adopted in 2005?! Yeah, that's what we did. I guess that's why you're probably so worried. Someone finally sat down to do the job. What has been done so far? So far, little has been done, but enough has been done thanks to the previous mandate of the government of Boyko Borisov and this mandate of the government. Here I would like to thank sincerely everyone who supports this National Program. I would like to point out here: this National Energy Efficiency Programme is not just a case of GERB. Yes, it is part of our election campaign and platform and part of our election management program. I am glad that in less than 100 days we have been able to make a huge promise from our election program. It's a fact, it's real, it's financially secured. Not just that. I mean, for everyone who says they don't know, they didn't vote, they didn't hear, they didn't see. Dear colleagues, part of our coalition declaration is the development of this Programme, part of our management program is the development of this Programme. And it's a fact! You say, "Represent it to the National Assembly." Why haven't we seen it? - Isn't that what executive power is for?! Isn't that why you voted and trusted us to be the government of Bulgaria, the executive power to implement the policies?! The energy efficiency policy of residential buildings is set, the government implements it, implementing the National Programme. That's why she's not... Otherwise it is available, it is public on the website of the Ministry, in the State Gazette, available everywhere for anyone willing to read it. Another very important clarification. This National Program, if you read it in detail, answers each of the questions raised today. The decree of the Council of Ministers for the adoption of the Programme includes the Programme as a whole the terms, conditions and mechanism on which it is implemented and answers all these questions. Starting with this: who, namely the institutions responsible for the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works gives methodological guidance, the Ministry of Finance provides the financial resources and is responsible for the financial aspects, municipalities are the ones who implement the Programme for those who have voluntarily decided to participate in it in voluntary non-profit associations in the persons of the owners of these buildings who can apply for the Programme. The regional governors on behalf of the state control the process. For each step of the process, there is clearly created order, conditions, including samples to be used to make it clear, transparent and unified. For all the steps in the Programme there is a register: a register of applications submitted, a register of public, transparent register of applications submitted; a public and transparent register of contracts concluded; a public and transparent register of how these contracts are then financed, how much it is used. All of this is a fact, all of this is there, and it's also at stake in the program. If you had read the decree of the Council of Ministers on terms and conditions, we would not be discussing these issues. The program also clearly includes the algorithm by which it will be implemented. How will it be budgeted, Mr. Bayraktarov? Yes, it is at stake, and we also have a special, deliberate decision by the Council of Ministers, which lays down an agreement between the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, the Minister of Finance and Banks, how it is bet annually in the budget. Yeah, they're not in Budget 2015, so it's okay to be gone. The Bank will finance 2015, the buildings will be implemented. The recovery of public resources starts from 2016 and I assure you, you will see them. You can count on what's at stake. We are responsible people and we respect the regulations, regulations and order that we accept and offer. You say "unfairly selected buildings." And that is not the case, honourable Members. Yeah, after analysis and criteria, we chose to be at least 36 apartments. Why at least 36? In order to be able to give a chance first to the largest buildings that are most severely affected, the most difficult could be associated if they had to collect their own contribution to funding. It is very clear that, first of all, we give the biggest in 2015, all the other buildings have entered since 2016. So discriminated against buildings that can't participate, there isn't. Not just that. We're talking about previous programs. We have a successfully implemented programme with the assistance of the UN - 50 buildings are ready and they are an extremely good example of what energy efficiency we are achieving. Ten buildings in Smolyan. 65% saving from household heating funds, 65% more remaining money in the household than saved funds. This is the effect we are looking for, this is the main objective of the Programme and what we need to achieve. You said, "Why don't we use European funds?" Yes, we do. Sixty-five million European funding is provided for in the Regional Development Programme 2007 - 2013. The programme has started in 2012. Unfortunately, 2013 and 2014 we see a complete blockage. It was left on logs. No one did what was necessary to realize, to choose performers to make this process possible. I inform you that we did it in the short time again in the first 100 days. We have examined and approved 290 buildings, which I hope will be renovated by the end of this year. They're all under 36 and they're all the ones who can't participate in the National Program for Large Panel Buildings right now. So small, non-panel buildings are also given a chance and I hope that by the end of the year these will be successfully realized, life and health, we will have successful tender procedures. I can make a lot more arguments, but I'm just gonna go with a few important ones. In less than three weeks since this program has been in operation, do you know how many associations we have, how many people haven't been worried about what you're suggesting and what's false? No one can take people's apartments, no one can take them away. The requirement for the Association of Owners is an association with limited powers in the implementation of art. 25, para. 1 of the Law, which says: This association is not an economic operator, but it is necessary for it to be a beneficiary of the financing, to be a guarantor of the guarantees and to maintain the sustainability of the building. And not only that. However, we must also respect the principles of minimum eligible State aid as required by the European Directive, as required by the Bulgarian State Aid Act. Therefore, we must comply with the law - something also enshrined in the draft decision, but it has already been taken into account in the decree on the terms and conditions of the programme in order to comply with and provide acceptable, minimal State aid.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u208	Bravo! [[(Applause and cheering:) Bravo! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u209	A few facts so far: In just three weeks from the beginning of the program there are more than 750 associations of owners involved. According to the information we have, there are already more than 250 of them for the purposes of the programme. I'm glad people didn't believe the Anonymous. Contracts with municipalities have already been signed 36 in number and already concluded financing contracts with the Bulgarian Development Bank 22 in just three weeks. I am glad that even beyond the expectations we had, so many buildings have already begun their process and their realization. Another fact, which is very important, unfortunately, the DPS colleagues who made this argument came out. Why the big ones? First of all, because they have a larger number of normal buildings, you said, we ignore the small ones. However, within the framework of your mandate, when such a National Program was adopted, although not financed, only in theory, is explicitly laid down that the first stage of the program should necessarily include only the large cities in which the scope is Burgas, Varna, Plovdiv and Sofia. This is set by you, honourable Members, in the National Program, adopted in 2005. That it should only be started with the big cities and only with the panel buildings in them. We don't find the hot water, we run the National Program. [[Relations from the National Representative Maya Manolova.]] But because we are tolerant, because we are solidarity, we said: "All settlements, despite everything, should participate in the programme, so that there is no discrimination, as is set out in the 2005 programme, which you have not changed. Another speculation about the calculations you made. In the same National Programme 2005 - 2020 it is said that in order for the housing fund to be renovated, about 4 billion are needed. lv. We currently have 1 billion of the National Programme; 350 million, provided for with European funding under the Programme "Regions in Growth" and 65 million, we have in the current Programme "Regional Development" and 15 million under the UNDP Programme. That's about a billion and a half, which is 40% of these panel buildings can be covered. Seven hundred thousand are housing in panel buildings. I hope we cover 40% of them. It's a huge success rate. God willing, with common efforts to achieve it and make it possible. So all the hot attacks, the criticisms, the whole demagogy, I thank you that with this negative campaign you promoted this renovation, you made it possible that energy efficiency as a program, as a scope, as needs can reach everyone because there is no bad advertising. And bad advertising is the one that gives us the opportunity to give the parameters, to show the benefits and to show why it is important, why it is necessary and why we should continue to realize it. The more we do together, the better, because this is a program directly to the Bulgarian citizens - not only social but also to the Bulgarian economy. Over 5800 are the producers of windows. Let us give them a chance to produce Bulgarian production and economy to work. Over 2500 are small and medium-sized companies that can and will work on this program. Let's give them a chance, because the conditions we've set are those. And as they say, to end with positivism, I mean, for me, the glass is half full. Let's make sure that with the efforts we are going to make, now we make half the next half of the years ahead to have the effort, the desire, the will to take care of it, because almost 3 million. Bulgarians live in these buildings. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u210	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Deputy Prime Minister Donchev wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u211	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to disagree with Mr. Dobrev's thesis that the debate held today is completely unnecessary. It's not like that, Mr. Dobrev! In fact, the debate held, although deprived in most cases of rational arguments, was a free advertisement of the entire renovation program, in the form of dramatization, if we are talking about television genres, or if we are talking about the press, in the form of the famous stylist ten arguments to participate in the Program and ten in lies and delusions related to the Programme. I don't remember who said he'd stopped reading books since he started writing them, which in artistic circles or free arts is totally acceptable. However, when it comes to numbers when it comes to public policies, it is not good practice. I think that if many of those involved today in the debate had bothered to read Methodology and all the documents, they would not have asked questions and some of the concerns would have disappeared at all. If someone did not have the strength to read, he could safely attend one of the meetings and learn that much of the concerns and much of the questions they asked were meaningless. Elections. Yeah, it's a fact that there's a local election this fall, and there's a presidential election next year. This is a fact and this, in certain cases, amplifies political emotions. But, colleagues, having elections is no reason for all of us to go into idle contemplation and do nothing. We've got a day to think about, we don't have a year to think about. We can't afford a year before the elections didn't happen because someone would comment on what the political effect was. Let's face it, we're not talking about an infrastructure whim here. We are not just talking about energy efficiency here, we are not talking about social policy here. We're talking national security here. Over one third of the Bulgarians live in similar homes. They have a problem not only with electricity bills, but with the state of these homes, so the only bad thing about this program is that it starts too late. Things are simple. Is there an undisputed need? There is! Is there an alternative to what is proposed? No, you won't! Any questions? Are there risks? There is, there is! The saddest thing is that I didn't hear any of the serious questions and I didn't hear anyone commenting on some of the serious risks. Since it's not my job to do your job, I won't mention them right now. I understand the need for the opposition to whine on certain subjects. I get it. And I understand how difficult it is. However, raising political hysteria in terms of a good proposal is also so devoid of style as to tell stupid jokes. Thank you. [[Laughter, cheering, applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u212	I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Since none of the importers introduced us to the specific draft solutions, I will read them both. The first time this debate procedure is initiated is by 50 Members of Parliament. Project! DECISION in connection with the debate on question No 554-05-8 of 21 January 2015, submitted by the MPs Maya Manolova and Dora Yankova to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the renovation of residential buildings The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 101, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Council of Ministers shall submit to the National Assembly by the end of February the National Programme for Energy Efficiency of the Building Fund in Bulgaria containing: - scope of the entire building fund; - sources and forms of funding relating to the medium-term budgetary forecast; - capacity for the investigation and technical characteristics related to the technical passports of buildings; - a roadmap for the deadlines for achieving national objectives; - an assessment of the reduction of heating costs, savings and greenhouse gases; - to register and account for the minimum aid regime. 2. The Council of Ministers should submit for discussion to the National Assembly by the end of February the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings. 3. The Council of Ministers in dialogue with the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria to amend the Law on Local Taxes and Fees in order not to damage the own revenues of the Bulgarian municipalities. 4. The Council of Ministers should establish a public electronic register for the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings. And the fifth point, which is proposed to be voted separately from the whole decision, is: It's five o'clock. The Council of Ministers should establish conditions for civil control and monitoring in the process of registration of applicants for renovation, control when approving the same, control when conducting public procurement and in the performance of the construction works. Signatures of Members of the National Assembly, importers of a list. The second draft decision signed by 53 MPs at the time reads as follows: Project! DECISION in connection with a debate on question No 554-05-8 of 21 January 2015, tabled by the MPs Maya Manolova and Dora Yankova to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the renovation of residential buildings The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 101, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The National Assembly supports the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multi-family residential buildings, as well as its overall implementation, adopted by Decree No 18 of the Council of Ministers of 2 February 2015 on the adoption of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multi-family residential buildings, on the terms and conditions for granting grants under the Programme and on the designation of the bodies responsible for its implementation. 2. The Council of Ministers shall submit annually by 30 April a report to the National Assembly on the progress in the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multi-family residential buildings for the previous calendar year, including with regard to sources of funding and the amount of funds used. 3. The Council of Ministers agreed with the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria to amend the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, excluding the application of tax relief to renovated residential buildings. Here are the signatures of the importers. First, I put to the vote Mrs. Manolova's procedural proposal, from their Project Decision............................................................................. 5, to which I have addressed you, to vote separately from the other points in the draft decision. We are voting on Mrs. Manolova's proposal. They voted 124 MPs: 31, against 72, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the draft decision submitted by Mrs. Maya Manolova and a group of Members of the National Assembly, and we vote on the draft decision of the initiators for today's debate. They voted 122 MPs: 26, against 75, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. Revoting please, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u213	Mrs. Chairman! My procedure is for re-voting, as I assume that the majority MPs have not understood the meaning of this proposal. [[(Strong noise and lines from GERB. Come on, let's go! No, no, no!]] . After all the speeches on the part of GERB and the two ministers to be against this, the National Sanitation Program to enter for discussion in Parliament, it really sounds strange. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Even more shameful and absurd sounds your vote in the context of our requested civilian control....there will be no abuse of money, there will be no puffed-up bills, will there be no benefit to your mayors?! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Then why are you afraid of civil control?! Why do you vote against citizens controlling the entire process?! [[GERB lines.]] You just voted to disprove both ministers and Donchev and Mrs. Pavlova, who claimed that this was done in the interests of the citizens. [[Loud noise and lines.]] No, the citizens will pay with their money the elections of GERB! [[(Strong noise and lines from GERB. Say: "Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, ……]] This is the conclusion of your vote and the demagogy of the ministers is evident in your vote. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. I am putting the draft decision of Mrs. Manolova and a group of MPs to the vote. They voted 122 MPs: 30, against 77, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the draft decision with importers Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs are voting on the second draft decision. They voted 102 MPs: 79, against 12, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Mr. Lazarov, re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u215	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! I'm asking you to re-vote the proposal. Colleagues found out where the hypocrisy was, where the money was given for swimming pools, where the money was given for tennis courts, Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u216	We understand you, Mr. Lazarov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u217	...where there will be civil control with non-governmental organizations. Please re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u218	Revoting, coworkers. They voted 104 MPs: 82, against 12, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u219	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would also like to thank you for the support, to assure the opposition, but especially all Bulgarian citizens that this programme is transparent, voluntary, it is from citizens to citizens. Citizen's control is in place and will be in the regulation, in the terms and conditions. It is citizens who will directly control the process of both choosing companies and their work. Without their control, without their signature, without their approval, no step of the program can be realized. That's civilian control. It's in place. It's part of the program. It is based on citizens, on their will, on their consent, on their approval, on the work of designers, builders and on investment control. It's guaranteed. Thank you very much. I assure you that we will work hard, transparently and we will make sure that the Programme is implemented. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u220	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Colleagues, we're moving on to the real part of parliamentary control. Tomislav Donchev will be the first to respond to the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy, to a request from the National Representative Petar Slavov on opportunities for additional funding of the Bulgarian Army, including for re-arming according to NATO standards, without additional burden on the state budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u221	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, honourable Members! My question concerns the possibilities for additional funding of the Bulgarian Army, including re-arming according to NATO standards, without being a burden on the state budget and it is aimed at Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, at the meeting in Wales Bulgaria made a commitment to its NATO partners to gradually increase the funds allocated by the state defence budget to reach 2% of the gross domestic product, including the re-arming of the Bulgarian Army according to NATO's modern standards. The bad legacy you found the government in which you participate, including the 3.7% budget deficit, imposed serious restrictions on the budgets of a number of departments, which suffered, of course, and the budget of the Ministry of Defence. The latter was reduced to 1.3% of gross domestic product. The vast majority of these funds will be spent on the current maintenance and wages of the servicemen, and the remainder will be extremely insufficient not only for the implementation of more substantial re-arming, but even for the maintenance of existing weapons and equipment. In this difficult situation it is obvious that alternative opportunities should be sought to finance the needs of the Bulgarian Army in order to be an equal and capable partner within NATO and effectively carry out its obligations to protect the national sovereignty of the Republic of Bulgaria. In relation to the above and in the light of the powers of the Council of Ministers under art. 22 of the Defence Act and the Armed Forces for the Implementation of State Defence Policy, please, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, answer the following question: does it fall among the priorities of the defence policy carried out by the Council of Ministers within reasonable time limits and by NATO standards of the Bulgarian Army? Could an alternative source of funding be the sale of equipment, ammunition and unnecessary property, revenue from which to target the acquisition of modern equipment and weapons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u222	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. The word is Deputy Prime Minister Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u223	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Slavov! It is important to note that it is appropriate to receive a sufficiently thorough and detailed response from the Minister of Defence, but as far as the issue concerns a wider spectrum, directly related to economic policy, I will provide you with an answer. It is obvious that the priorities of the government in the sector "Defense" are included in its programme, including the re-arming of the Bulgarian Armed Forces. In the implementation of this programme, the Ministry of Defence is developing a Program for the Development of Defence Capabilities by 2020, which is to be submitted and discussed in a short time to the Council of Ministers, after which it will be submitted for approval to the National Assembly. It should be borne in mind that the re-arming of the Armed Forces is the national responsibility of each NATO member state, and should first be provided with the resources of the State itself. Of course, additional opportunities can be sought in multilateral, regional and bilateral common projects included in the initiatives of NATO or the European Union, hereinafter referred to as The fact is that the resources available there and the opportunities are in no way sufficient for a large-scale re-arming of the army. I would like to assure you that there are no European defence funds within the European Union. As for the possibility of using the Ministry of Defence's revenue from the sale of properties with a reduced need for the Bulgarian army and became unnecessary items, equipment, property, armaments, such an opportunity exists. The resources received from the sale are included in the revenue section of the Ministry of Defence. I would just like to point out that, in terms of sound management of public resources, it is appropriate, when there are unnecessary assets for which there is no application at the moment, that the Ministry should be separated from them, but in order not to decapitalise the entire system, it is appropriate to insert the proceeds from the sale of these assets into other assets and not to be used for ongoing maintenance. The base principle is that the asset does not liquefy the asset's income to go for another asset. Finally, I would like to inform you that, for evil or for good, there is no possibility that EU funds under operational programmes or a rural development programme will be used to modernise the Armed Forces. This is an unacceptable cost and an unacceptable activity. It is another matter that a number of departments in the structure of the Ministry of Defence, which have other functions, have the opportunity to receive European funding such are the science-related units, some of the health units. Today and next week, I have a series of meetings with representatives of such units to clarify the possibilities so that they can benefit from European funding. Here the requirement under the applicable regulations is that when applying such units, which are part of the Ministry of Defence system, this should be in competitive mode with all other similar structures. When talking about the hospital, it can compete with all the other hospitals when talking about the Institute of Research, it can compete with all the other scientific institutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u224	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Slavov, you are entitled to two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for that answer. You have partly touched on my two supplementary issues, speaking of the inability of European solidarity to provide funds for re-arming. I would like to ask you precisely in terms of this European solidarity from the European Union whether we could, and whether the Ministry of Defence and all its structures could, indeed, seek opportunities to finance other activities that are, for example, aimed at, as you mentioned, hospitals, or rather perhaps to consider in the direction of activities in relation to the protection of the population in disasters and accidents and in helping in such difficult situations. That is, this is all-specialized technique that the Ministry needs and is practically missing at the moment or is not in very good condition. So in this direction is one of my supplementary questions. My other supplementary question is about the possibility of own revenues. I suppose you remember well, in 2012, there was the possibility that the really sold equipment, removed from arms, own property and so on, could be used at 100% of the Ministry for its needs, mainly as you paid attention to new capital costs and investments, i.e. to rearrange new equipment and so on. Unfortunately, however, after it entered into force, the Public Finance Act imposed quite serious restrictions. This year in the State Budget Act is actually a set limit of 30 million, over which sales will not go to the Ministry's budget and will not be used for such purposes, but will go to the central budget or will be used for quite other things already. Perhaps in this direction we, as MPs, should consider a legislative initiative, but I would be interested in whether you would, in principle, support such an approach, indeed what the Ministry is selling as an old equipment or property, to be used 100% for the renewal and purchase of a new one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u226	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u227	Dear Mr. Slavov, I have largely given information regarding the supplementary issues. With regard to what income from the sale of property the Ministry of Defense has and whether they can be used for re-arming, I would like to point out to you that it is not important how the money is moving.....................................................................................to the Ministry of Finance, and if they go to the Ministry of Finance and then return back to the Ministry of Finance. It is important to follow the underlying coefficient "what we have as income from the sale of property" to be relevant to the capital programme of the Ministry itself. Here again, it is appropriate to draw attention to some similarity in the assets. The revenue from the sale of old weapons to be comparable or at least several times less than the costs associated with the acquisition of a new one. I have already indicated that there is a clear ban on using EU funds under the operational programmes for Armed Forces in the particular Armed Forces, for the purchase of arms, uniforms or for maintenance. That's impossible! But military science, as far as science applies not only to military medicine, social problems, social projects, are fully eligible costs. Another question is that this opportunity has not been fully used in the years behind. It is my personal priority to clear all possibilities, including in talks with representatives of the relevant departments, of course, with colleagues from the Ministry of Defence, and where there is a specific opportunity to provide funding, it should be provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u228	Thank you. Mr. Slavov, will you take advantage of the right to the backrest?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for that answer. The purpose of my question was, in part, to address the problem and to draw your attention to it, as the situation is really tense at the moment and in the region. It is more than recommended that the army be in good military condition and actually meet the high requirements for it. In fact, what I thought could be done in this case, and what we as MPs and you as executives could do is give the Department of Defense a chance to help themselves. In this sense, what I mentioned is the possibility that the sale of old equipment will go as high as 100% to buy a new one. In fact, at the moment the way things are scheduled, no matter how much old equipment or property and old weapons are sold, there is a limit of this year's 30 million, and everything else practically goes elsewhere. This is also demotivating to the office itself, as you understand. This is not the right approach either, because at the very least it does not stimulate to seek the best market price for this technique or for these properties that could be realised. I am glad that the Minister of Defense is present here and hears this question and your answers. I hope for the next year in the budget that we can really bet on a much more ambitious investment programme of the office, with which it will actually show that it is willing to be financed largely with its own resources, precisely on this line and, of course, to find support both among the Council of Ministers and among the MPs. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u230	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Again a question to the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Tomislav Donchev. He is from the MP Korman Yakubov Ismailov on the inclusion of the newly designated municipality of Sarnitsa in the operational programmes for the planned period 2014 - 2020. Here you are, Mr. Ismailov. You have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! By Decree No 177 of 22 July 2014 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, which entered into force from 1 January 2015, the town of Sarnitsa together with the villages of Medenni Polyani and Pobit kam are divided into the municipality of Sarnitsa. The procedure for establishing the new municipality hides its complexity in terms of the fact that the municipality of Sarnitsa is not present in the State Budget Act for 2015 and logically arises the question of how it is laid down in the indicative budgets of the operational programmes for the planned period 2014-2020. Dear Mr. Donchev, what actions have the authorities entrusted to you for the inclusion of Sarnitsa Municipality as beneficiary of European funding and on which European programmes?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u232	Thank you, Mr. Ismailov. Here you go, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u233	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Ismailov! The fact is that the establishment of a new territorial unit and municipality is linked to many challenges. That's an indisputable fact. Here, in addition to providing funding, I would also like to mention all the challenges relating to the creation of a well-functioning institution with sufficient administrative capacity. From the perspective of the funding opportunities of the newly formed municipality you have no cause for concern. In the short time that I have, I will try to do a tight analysis on the various financial instruments, informing you what are the opportunities to provide funding for a different type of intervention. We start with the Rural Development Programme, as far as the national definition defines as a rural area the municipalities where there is no population with more than 30 thousand people. According to this definition, Sarnitsa is also a rural municipality. This means that it can benefit, in the first place, from the Rural Development Programme, in particular measure 7 "Basic services' and the renewal of rural villages. Thanks to the funding under this programme, wide spectrum needs can be covered, especially infrastructure. For the same reason the municipality of Sarnitsa will not be financed under priority axis 1 nor under priority axis 2 of the Operational Programme. You know that there we have a clear geographical demarcation of which settlements are financed from which programme. With regard to educational, social infrastructure as well as regional tourism, the municipality will have the opportunity to apply for funding under the Operational Programme. The interventions are limited to these particular types of infrastructure, insofar as they are not subject to geographical demarcation. That is, they are applicable to the territory of the whole country. There the division that we have between the Rural Development Programme and the ODA does not apply. With regard to Operational Programme "Environment". Here it is important to clarify that when we talk about the water sector, it will finance agglomerations of over 10,000. Resident equivalent. With the information I have, in this case the municipality of Sarnitsa as agglomeration has 3591 equivalent inhabitants, which means that it will not be able to be financed by the Operational Program. However, it will be able to be financed for a similar type of intervention from the Rural Development Programme, as I mentioned earlier. The municipality is eligible for the other operational programmes. "Science and education for smart growth." Even in 2015 we expect the opening of schemes on which the municipality will be able to apply under the Operational Program "Human Resources Development." Here too within the year we expect the first integration schemes where the municipality could be eligible beneficiary. I'm not just talking about the municipality, I'm talking about other institutions within the municipality. I'm talking about educational institutions and non-governmental organizations. And as a finale, when we comment on the Operational Program "Good management" the program, which was approved yesterday, together with the Programme "Science and education for smart growth" there are also measures in relation to which the municipality can be a candidate. Some of them will also be announced as early as 2015. It is about the introduction of complex administrative services, as well as measures related to an electronic municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u234	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Mr. Ismailov, you have two minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u235	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. I think that this information and your commitment in general to this process in the emergence and structuring of a new municipality and the relevant state and municipal services in terms of providing adequate, close to the population quality services is very important. I hope that from the inquiries I had from citizens from the region, from the population, there will be an opportunity for others to get more information and that in time the municipality can actively participate among all other municipalities not to be left behind, but to develop successfully in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u236	Thank you, Mr. Ismailov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister? You don't want the word for the doppelganger. The next question is again to Mr. Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy. The question is of the MP Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov about shortcomings and vices of the National Program for Sanitation, which is due to be implemented in 2015. Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear gentlemen, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in spite of the debate on the National Sanitation Program, without putting any emotion and some kind of reproach on Deputy Prime Minister Donchev, I will develop my question, as it is essentially about an extremely important decision of the government. In 2011, the announced by the then regional minister scheme for renovation of residential buildings with European funds was launched, with the then programme "Regional development" foreseen to finance up to 50% of the costs of energy renovation of whole blocks or separate entrances. Some of the citizens took advantage of it. At the end of 2014, the current Minister of Regional Development and Public Works announced that the renovation of panel buildings will also be carried out with money under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth 2014-2020" which provides 380 million for energy efficiency. Naturally, some of the Bulgarian citizens will also benefit from this programme. The regional minister then announced that the National Sanitation Program will start in 2015. The funding of this Programme, according to its clarification, will be provided by a fund that will provide funds to municipalities for 100% free financing of the renovation of large panel buildings. Some of the citizens in Bulgaria will benefit from this opportunity, and some of the Bulgarians will not succeed because of frankly, I think, the discriminatory approach of the government. In the course of the campaign itself Mrs. Pavlova explained the first option that each municipality will conclude a framework agreement with many companies and will distribute the blocks that need energy efficiency measures. The media announced its idea to introduce a restriction aimed at a company with a renovation order which would not be able to enter into a contract with the same subject until the repair is completed or will be restricted in this initiative within three months. It has also been reported by Mrs Pavlova that she expects an opinion of the Public Procurement Agency, which is why it does not exclude the option for each block to announce a separate procurement. At the same time, the Public Procurement Act in force requires the rule that companies selected in a framework agreement should submit offers for each site and thus choose the most advantageous offer from them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u238	The weather, Mr. Ibryamov. Get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u239	I'm done. In relation to everything that has been said so far, my question to you is as follows: is the government's decision to 100% cover the cost of renovation eligible State aid, and by what criterion were the minimum established 36 apartments with a view to the eligibility of funding?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u240	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u241	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Ibryamov, especially after the long discussion that has been going on in the last hour, I suggest that we do not repeat some of the regulations that have been expressed in this Chamber together. So I'm going to try to concentrate directly on your question. Only in terms of the number of apartments, when we use such heavy words as discrimination, should we pay attention to the additionality between the National Energy Efficiency Programme and the residential buildings that will be financed by the future ODA. I mean, we can't talk about discrimination. One more thing: the desperate intentions, which cannot be realized only in 2015 or 2016, are similar types of measures to cover practically the entire building fund in the country, reaching the single-family residential buildings, because there are problems, by the way, not only related to the state of the buildings, the way of heating. I just remind you that in a number of cities in the country, we have problems with particulate pollution. One reason for this is the way of heating, which requires necessary measures to stimulate other ways of heating, other than solid fuel. There are intentions in this direction. Directly on your question about State aid, that, in the case of individual premises in the building which are used to carry out business activities, as well as in the case of renting out or operating by traders or persons with vacant professions, the owners of those premises or dwellings will be treated as recipients of the so-called minimum aid and de minimis, under the State Aid Act. The thresholds are set out in Regulation 1407 of 2013 and are the remaining equivalent of 200 thousand. Euros. Exactly 391 166 leva. for a period of three consecutive years. Owners of independent premises in the building where business activities are carried out but are outside the scope of the minimum aid scheme will have to pay for the relevant part of the renovation costs. These are provisions of the European Union relating to the so-called applicable State aid. My forecast is that in very few cases we will get to a similar situation, in so far as, knowing the values of such types of measures, of such types of projects, unless the company concerned has received funding previously from the State or from another operational programme, it is very unlikely that it will exceed these thresholds. But the European rules are clear: when there is accumulation, when the threshold of minimum aid is passed, only then and only if de facto commercial activity is carried out in the part of the building in question, only then is entered into such a regime. Those who inhabit apartments, individuals without carrying out intra-commercial activity, for outside of this scheme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u242	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. You have the floor, Mr. Ibryamov, if you want a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your reply, but it is still about a billion funds that the government, in your words and the debates that we discussed just now, will be spent on the renovation of buildings, so pressing panel buildings. My question was whether this resource of 1 billion is really State aid, and if so, whether you have been notified by the European Commission of the use of these funds. That's what I wanted to hear from you. And if there really is such a document, it is nice to provide it to the MPs so that we can meet them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u244	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. A hole, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u245	Dear Mr. Ibryamov, we accept that I misunderstood the question. I have commented on State aid in the ultimate beneficiary hypothesis, the benefits, because here we are not talking about a direct beneficiary of the financing. Private owners do not have any hypothesis in which to receive direct funding. I analyzed that hypothesis very carefully. It's no coincidence that I even read the text with the specific values. As far as the entire billion funding is concerned, in my opinion, it does not necessarily have the characteristics of state aid. But if I had known that your question was in that sense, I could have prepared myself with a more detailed analysis. We assume I've understood it in a slightly different way. If the subject continues to be of interest, I do not object, including in writing, to give you further clarification. Spontaneously, I do not believe that the funding in question, the entire billion, falls under similar characteristics. Just to clarify, we are talking about 1 billion of the public resources, we are talking about additional funding from the Operational Programme. And to supplement, this is not the final resource that will be spent on such measures. We intend to, including after 2016, as I mentioned, for other categories of housing, reaching the single-family residential buildings, similar measures to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u246	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Those were the three questions to Mr. Tomislav Donchev. Thanks for his answers. We wish him a good job. The next question is to Ivaylo Kalfin (Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy). He will answer one question this week by the National Representative Ilian Sashov Todorov, about the number of pensioners in the Republic of Bulgaria receiving pension under the poverty line of BGN 286. Here you are, Mr. Todorov. Two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please answer me: what is the total number of Bulgarian pensioners receiving a pension whose equivalent is below the line of poverty of BGN 286. for 2015? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u248	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Todorov, the number of pensioners receiving pension, including those adding to it, of up to BGN 286 million, is 1 million. 228,000. 623, which is 56,4% of the total number of pensioners, at the end of 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u250	Mr. Todorov, please come straight to the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u251	Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, it is clear that today's quadruple coalition is another political ruling clique that puts Bulgarian citizens in extremely difficult conditions of life.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u252	I'll make an observation, Mr. Todorov. Don't use words like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u253	Thousands of Bulgarian pensioners who receive under BGN 286 The poverty line. I apologize very much, but this is genocide against these people by all means. Look at the Penal Code. 585 para. 2 and you'll see it. What are you telling us? That right now over a million. 200,000. Bulgarians who have built Bulgaria with their hands and with their thought, which, of course, in the last 25 years, the government have looted and given their people for pennies, these people today will be put in a situation where they will not have money for medicines, for food, for elementary utilities. Some people don't have the means to exist, even if they do, it's really physical genocide! Apart from that, today the quadruple coalition proposes that you even introduce taxes on these people's miserable pensions. Mr. Minister, you have just admitted that the state is committing genocide over 1 million. 228,000. These are your words. To move on. As you very much like to talk about Euro-values, how we were a member of the European Union, NATO, Bulgaria's Euro-orientation, to tell you that the minimum pension in Bulgaria is lower than many in Africa and Latin America. What kind of EU are we talking about? That's ridiculous. The minimum pension in Bulgaria is lower than in Bolivia, in Peru, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Colombia, Honduras, lower than an African country, such as Gabon, where the minimum pension is close to 195 euros! What European Union are you talking about? Currently, the average monthly allowance of a prisoner in our country equals BGN 1300. against a minimum pension of BGN 155! The maintenance of a stray dog in Sofia amounts to 300 BGN. versus BGN 155. Minimal pension! Does one of you, the government, approve of the Bulgarian pensioner being less and poorer than the African or the Latin American, get half of a stray dog and approximately nine times less than the killer, the thief and the rapist?! That is why we from Ataka continue to insist that you accept our legislative proposal to raise the minimum pension in Bulgaria to BGN 500. What we actually proposed in the Forty-second National Assembly [[the President signals that time has run out]] , but was rejected by GERB, BSP and DPS.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u254	Your time is up, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u255	It's been four months. [[the President signals that time has run out]] this proposal matures in the Bulgarian Parliament,...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u256	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u257	...while you purposely kill... [[The National Representative interrupts his reply due to the microphones being turned off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u258	I was tolerant to let you finish your thought, but you overreacted. Mr. Kalfin, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Todorov, it was clear that you were asking me about a number you knew so you could read a Filipica after that. The problem is you're confusing the concepts. When using the word "genocide," be very careful how and when you use it, because it has international legal significance. Secondly, I gave you data at the end of last year. If I'm not mistaken, in the previous period, Ataka was very biased and empathetic to governance, so it can be said that it is also the result of your participation in management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u260	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. We wish you a good job. Next are questions to Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov. The first question is from the MP Petar Vladislavov Slavov concerning the application and expected date of accession to the European Banking Union. Here you are, Mr. Slavov. You have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u261	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, dear colleagues! My question is to the Minister of Finance and it concerns the application and the expected date of accession to the European Banking Union. Dear Minister, after the banking crisis in mid-2014, the subsequent bankruptcy of KTB and the removal from office of the deputy governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, responsible for the Bank's supervision, it became clear that the existing mechanisms for supervision of the banking sector in Bulgaria are far from perfect and in some ways have deficiencies. In order to address these problems and ensure the stability of the banking system, the ruling majority recorded in the Programme Declaration of Government Management the intention of the country to join the European Banking Union in a short time. In addition to increased control through the single supervisory mechanism, Bulgaria will thus also gain access to the Single European Union Restructuring Fund, where it could benefit from liquidity support in a crisis situation in the banking sector. I hope you don't have to. Regardless of a number of benefits that can be expected from our membership in the European Banking Union, a number of media at the beginning of February are publishing the news that this process will be postponed for at least unknown reasons for me indefinitely. In this regard, Dear Minister, I ask you to answer the following question: what deadline do you intend for our country to apply for membership in the European Banking Union, can the mechanisms of the European Banking Union, including the single banking supervision, be expected to be introduced in relation to the banking sector in the Republic of Bulgaria? And if you think there are reasons for delaying the above, what would they be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u262	Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u263	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Slavov, the Bulgarian government and the Ministry of Finance have not given up applying to the Banking Union. On the contrary, this remains one of the main priorities in the field of financial markets and financial services. Evidence of this is also accepted at a meeting of the Council of Ministers on 21 January 2015. A government program for the stable development of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period of our joint mandate, in which one of the main priorities is the establishment of close cooperation within the framework of a single supervisory mechanism of the Banking Union. In response to the publications quoted by you in the media, the Ministry of Finance published a press release on 3 February 2015 confirming the government's intention to establish close cooperation with the European Central Bank and providing an analysis of the European Union regulations that provide the legal framework for such accession. In determining the specific deadline within which Bulgaria's accession to the Banking Union is possible to take place, two very important circumstances should take place. First of all, it is necessary to carry out an independent assessment of the financial situation of the banks in the country, something which, by the way, I announced in the first days of the year and plans to engage independent valuers. I would like to point out that the analysis of banks and the submission of such assessment were an integral part of the procedure for establishing a single supervisory mechanism for the euro area Member States before its official launch on 4 November 2014. Secondly, joining the Banking Union is not a unilateral but a multilateral process, the rules for which are laid down in the regulations of the European Union. The decision-making procedure for establishing close cooperation with the European Central Bank is signed except in the Regulation which entrusts the specific tasks of the European Central Bank on policies relating to the prudential supervision of credit institutions, as well as in the Decision of the European Central Bank of 31 January 2014. The close cooperation between the European Central Bank and the national competent supervisory authority, in this case the BNB, whose currency is not the euro, shall be established by a decision of the European Central Bank where a number of conditions are met, including when ensuring that the national competent supervisory authority, in this case the BNB, will comply with all the guidelines or requests of the European Central Bank, and that it will provide information on the credit institutions established in the country, which the European Central Bank may want to make an overall assessment of these credit institutions. Another condition is that the Member State has adopted the necessary national legislation to enable this close cooperation to be established. The request to establish close cooperation should be made at least five months before the date from which the Party intends to participate in the Single Supervisory Mechanism. At the latest three months after receiving the request and all information, the European Central Bank shall...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u264	Guide yourself to completion, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, but the point is lost if I don't provide all the information.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u266	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u267	At the latest three months after receiving the request and all information, the European Central Bank shall submit its preliminary assessment. The applicant Member State shall have a period of 20 days to deliver an opinion on that preliminary assessment. In conclusion, the Bulgarian Government, and in particular the Ministry of Finance, take into account the benefits of joining the Banking Union of the European Union, but a number of national procedures must be implemented before participation in this Union, and then procedures at European Union level. The Bulgarian government is willing and willing to do what is necessary in order to walk the way towards the country's accession to the Bank Union by believing that this will contribute to the stability of the financial system of the country and increase the confidence of citizens and companies in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u268	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Slavov? Thank you, too. The next question is again to the Minister of Finance Mr. Vladislav Goranov. He is one of the MPs Boris Yankov Yachev and Hristian Radev Mitev on a national campaign against smuggling, organized by the Bulgarian Ministry of Finance and Customs. Mr. Yachev, if you're going to develop the issue, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u269	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. Dear Mr. Minister, the widely advertised national campaign against smuggling, organized by the Bulgarian Ministry of Finance and Customs, has sparked many questions and reactions in society. The campaign was officially opened by the Bulgartabac Holding on 15 January 2015. Prominently from the advertising videos and billboards, the cigarette manufacturer Bulgartabac Holding is officially advertised with the help of the state whose institutions are practically legitimizing the Bulgartabac Holding as almost the only tobacco company that does not produce and trade smuggled. The proof of this is the fact that the logo and company name of Bulgartabac is depicted, respectively, on all promotional materials alongside those of the Ministry of Finance and the Customs Agency, in whose powers it is to fight smuggling, as well as the National Association of Tobacco Producers - 2010 and the Association of Producers of Oriental Tobacco. The fact that budget funds are probably not used in the campaign does not answer the questions posed by the ridiculous participation of state institutions in the campaign. The other problem posed by the campaign in question is the circumvention of the ban on advertising cigarettes and the promotion of smoking, which is carried out by the use of pictures of mothers, children or mothers with baby carriages. Until the summer of last year, the banker Tsvetan Vassilev and DPS MP Delyan Peevski pointed out to be the real owners of the cigarette manufacturer. Seen by the campaign with which the Ministry of Finance and the Customs Agency are engaged, the same is aimed not at all smuggling or smuggling, but is focused only on cigarettes and the losses of the excise budget. It does not address the question of whether illegally imported cigarettes are more dangerous, as is the risk of cigarettes from an unknown manufacturer. In view of the foregoing, we ask you the following question: why is the Ministry of Finance and the Customs Agency participating in a campaign where there is hidden advertising of the Bulgartabac company and its manufactured tobacco products?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u270	Thank you, Mr. Yanchev. Minister, you have three minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u271	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! If anyone is worried about smuggling, I am willing to give the logo to the Ministry of Finance of any company trading excise goods and to make advertising messages against smuggling. Against smuggling! If any of the other operators and traders of excise goods want us to have no doubt, let us not blame him for participating in smuggling schemes, be good to do and participate in an advertising campaign against smuggling. The state is against smuggling and is ready to stand by the name of all its authorities that it is also against smuggling. Whoever wants to help the state with an advertising budget against smuggling, we'll brand it. We are going to write:............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u272	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Mitev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, of course, it is commendable the desire of the Ministry of Finance to save from public budget funds using the campaign of a private company in the case of Bulgartabac Holding. The problem is not that the Ministry wants to fight smuggling. It's his duty. The problem is that in this way this private company is practically making hidden advertising using precisely the Ministry of Finance. And the problem is that in the future this can also happen to other producers of excise goods. You set an example with Lukoil. We can then also talk about producers of alcohol, but we do not think that the state should encourage, albeit hidden, thus producers of excise goods. At the very least, it's not right and it's against the law, in our opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u274	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Mr. Minister, if you like, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u275	I said it with the best feeling I'll say it again. Anyone who wants a merchant, a producer of excise goods, I will advertise it with the brand of Bulgaria against smuggling, with his money. Anyone who wants to give money for an ad against smuggling, I'll advertise it. There are 400 licensed tax warehouses. These 400 tax warehouses, if they want me not to doubt them, to make an advertising campaign, I will give the logo of the Republic of Bulgaria against smuggling.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u276	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The clock is ticking. We'll only have time for one more question, I warn you. The next question is again to the Minister of Finance and is from the National Representative Velizar Penkov Enchev on the actions of the Bulgarian financial institutions against concealing the income of Bulgarian citizens in foreign banks. You have two minutes, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u277	Let me point out at the outset something very important that has a direct link to the question. It's turned out, dear friends, two years since Plamen Goranov set fire to himself. Two years in which oligarchy, which he set on fire, is still in power, and the issue has a direct bearing on this subject. Let's honor his memory! Mr. Minister, the prestigious newspaper "Mond" delivered that 264 million. The dollar is the largest account of a Bulgarian citizen who used the so-called Swiss path for incomes. Citing financial experts and a group of investigative journalists, the publication provided information on an investigation into a money laundering channel launched by the Swiss subsidiary of the British bank HSBC. We talked a lot about her yesterday, but that's not the point. Among those who benefited from the bank's channel in the period 1990 - 2007 were 74 Bulgarians, or people who pointed out addresses in the country, who spent an average of 5 million in the vault. The dollar. On this occasion, I would like to remind you that in 2008, the British Tax Agency paid for information about secret accounts and banks in Liechtenstein to residents of the island and so Britain joined Germany in fighting tax fraud. According to experts, Britain paid for this secret disk 100,000. And there was information in it about a hundred wealthy Brits hiding at least 100 million in Liechtenstein. Pounds of unpaid taxes and, of course, a lot of money came into the tax treasury. At the end of last year, Mr. Minister, the finance ministers of 28 EU countries agreed to introduce automatic exchange of bank data, but it will enter into force from 2017, when all member states will have to switch to automatic exchange of bank secrecy. My question is as follows: what measures have you and the National Revenue Agency taken to obtain information about the bank accounts of Bulgarian citizens in Switzerland, and especially about the 260 million. The dollar? Do you consider the possibility to apply the experience of Germany and Britain in the fight against tax evasion and tax fraud? A cruelly up-to-date question, as in the previous government, the head of the NRA Krasimir Stefanov was in Germany for this disk. It is said to have received it, but the information from it is a complete secret and it is natural.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u278	Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u279	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Enchev, in February 2010, information was released in international and Bulgarian media that the Federal Republic of Germany's Finance Ministry purchased magnetic media with information about persons holding bank accounts in Swiss banks. In this regard, a working meeting was held in March 2010 between representatives of the Ministry of Finance of Germany and the National Revenue Agency of Bulgaria. At this meeting by the German side it is stated that the prosecution and tax authorities are currently conducting an investigation and if data are found for Bulgarian citizens, they will be provided to the Bulgarian National Revenue Agency. Until now, the National Revenue Agency of the Republic of Bulgaria has not received any information from the German tax authorities about Bulgarian citizens holding bank accounts in Switzerland. At present, information on Bulgarian citizens holding bank accounts in Switzerland is received by the NRA under the Agreement between the European Community and the Swiss Confederation on the movement of measures equivalent to those laid down in Council Directive 2003/48/EC on income taxation, saved in the form of interest payments, in force in the Republic of Bulgaria since its accession in 2007. Under that Agreement, if persons do not agree to disclose their identity, their income from interest on Swiss bank accounts shall be subject to Swiss tax. The tax thus withheld is subject to the transfer of accounts to the National Revenue Agency. In this sense, it is important to clarify that personal information under this Agreement is only sent to Bulgaria for those persons who have agreed to disclose their identity in order not to be deducted from a tax on interest rates in Switzerland. In fact, it is a limited number of persons, with the possibility of the individual concerned hiding his identity by choosing to pay a tax on his interest rates in Switzerland. For 2013, the amount of tax deducted in Switzerland on savings income in the form of interest payments transferred to the NRA account is around 900 thousand. lv. The 2014 information will be available in 2016. Also from 1 January 2014 a new Agreement for the avoidance of double taxation between Bulgaria and Switzerland, as in art. 26 of the Agreement provides for the possibility for countries to exchange and banking information. Bulgaria has not so far requested bank information to Switzerland on the basis of that clause, as it applies to tax proceedings launched not earlier than 1 January 2014. Regarding your question whether the possibility of applying the experience of Germany and Great Britain is being considered, I inform you that no proposals have been made to the Bulgarian authorities so far to acquire confidential banking information from third countries. At present, the debate in the Budget Commission was yesterday, Bulgaria is taking action to join the relevant multilateral agreements between the countries that serve as a legal basis for the introduction of the so-called common standard for automatic exchange of financial information by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. This standard will enable automatic exchange of financial information between countries. The idea of this common standard is based on agreements concluded in the United States of America on the basis of the FATCA Act. Bulgaria signed a FATCA agreement with the United States on 5 December 2014, currently underway procedure for its ratification by the National Assembly. Yesterday I found out that the Budget Committee had some pretty serious obstructions against it. I am talking about the Bulgarian MPs, not someone specific. I suggest we debate and think ahead. [[Reply.]] It's two-way, of course. I propose that we think of a solution of the type of all bank accounts of all Bulgarian citizens, and I would offer the government such a legislative initiative, I tell it out of time to give meaning to the debate, to create it in the Bulgarian National Bank, by analogy of the credit register, a register of all bank accounts. No individualization, of course, of size, because it's a bank secret. To every Bulgarian citizen who has a bank account, it will become known, automatically and quickly, to all the judicial authorities and to all the banks and to all the authorities involved in the collection of revenue in this country. To establish a central register in the Bulgarian National Bank with information every Bulgarian citizen in which banks and how many bank accounts there are. Currently, in one procedure related to suspicion of money laundering or other violations, the Bulgarian services send an inquiry to all Bulgarian banks. The trial's been going on for months. During this time, the information may already be useless, and at the same time, the time between the submission of a request for information and its receipt may change essential circumstances to change the factual situation. Therefore, I am seriously considering and will propose legislative changes to introduce, by analogy of the Central Credit Register, and Central Register in the Bulgarian National Bank with information where and how many accounts it owns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-20.u280	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You've been very thorough, so I took the liberty of leaving a little more time. Mr. Enchev, I understand you don't want a line. Colleagues, due to the expiry of parliamentary control time, I declare today's session closed. The next regular meeting of the National Assembly is on 25 February 2015, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. Thank you. [[PHONE RINGING]]
