ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u1	I shall open the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] I suggest to your attention a draft program for the work of the National Assembly for 8 and 9 April 2015: 1. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Road Traffic Act. Exporters: Petar Slavov 10/03.2015; Stanislav Ivanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly... 12.03.2015; Pavel Hristov, Plamen Manushev and Tsvetomir Mihov 20.03.2015; Svetlin Tanchev and a group of Members of the National Assembly....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. Annual report on the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2013. Importer: Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. This is an extension of our meeting two weeks ago. The debate started, but there was no time before parliamentary control to end the vote. 3. Second vote on the Fiscal Council Bill and corrective mechanisms. Importer of the Council of Ministers, adopted at the first vote on 06.03. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications. The Council of Ministers adopted at the first vote on the 12.02.2015 5. Election of Vice-Presidents and two members of the Court of Auditors. The procedure of the election is by rules adopted by a decision of the National Assembly. Point 5 is intended to be point 1 for Thursday, 9 April 2015. 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses. Importers "Niden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs. This is intended to be t. 2 for Thursday 9 April 2015 7. Draft Law on the ratification of the Garrison Maintenance Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Ministry of Defence, and the Supreme Chief Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe on the Base Maintenance of the CIS Module with Return Capabilities, NATO Second Joint Battalion. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 8. A bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America to improve compliance with international tax legislation and the implementation of FATCA. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 9. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Environmental Protection Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 10. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Please vote. [[Reply from "Attacka": "Procedure!".]] Let's accept the program, then you'll have the floor for the procedure. Vote 161 MPs: 142 against 8, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Mr. Siderov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I suggest to your attention, Madam President, that you use your powers under para. 5 of art. 50 of the Rules. I know that the Presidency of the National Assembly is a high responsibility, but it also gives powers through which you can demonstrate your attitude towards one or another proposal, bill, decision and so on. What's this about? We are talking about item seven of today's programme, which was voted in which, in fact, exactly on Great Thursday falls, probably tomorrow, the Assembly will vote here on the legitimization of NATO garrison. Since there is very serious military tensions, escalation, I have spoken about it, I will say a few words again today, as we have gathered. In this regard, I suggest that this point should not enter now, right in the Passion Week before Easter, and that we accept the creation of a garrison, which will further increase the tension in Bulgaria. Instead, I am proposing to you a proposal we have just submitted to the Ministry, which refers to the so-called invitations and leave of the Members of the National Assembly. With it, we propose a fundamental solution to this issue, because here in the Chamber, the previous week there were disputes, and we propose in principle the MPs, in a nutshell, it is available to all Members of the National Assembly, in a nutshell as it is for all working Bulgarians under the Labour Code, so that the weekends will be for the Members of the National Assembly no more, no less. This is how we introduce the principle of justice. If you do this, Madam President, that is to say, use your powers to change the agenda, I assure you, you will do a godly deed on the eve of the holy feast. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u3	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. Do you make a procedural proposal to drop the item? 7 of our weekly program?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u4	Yeah, I'm making an offer to drop the t. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u5	This procedural proposal will be put to the vote. [[Noise and lines.]] As regards Mr. Siderov's proposal, I inform the Members of the National Assembly that until now, according to the proper order of procedure, a proposal has been made by Mr. Velizar Enchev and Mr. Volen Siderov and a group of MPs for a change in the Rules on the Organization and Activities of the National Assembly regarding the holidays between the sessions, I stress: between the sessions, as the National Assembly is a collective body elected directly by the Bulgarian citizens. It works in sessions, but a proposal is made by Mr. Enchev and the group of "Attack" to change the cyclicalness of the work of the National Assembly. Any change in the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly by my order shall be made available to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Once this procedure has been carried out, it will enter the Chamber accordingly. At this stage, we are not ready, as Mr. Siderov explicitly stressed that their proposal has just been submitted, Mr. Enchev..................... two days earlier... cannot happen before the topic is discussed by the Legal Commission.......................................... 7 of our weekly programme, but without any connection to the proposals for amendments to the Rules of Procedure, as they must endure the procedure before the Legal Committee. Voting mode. Vote 160 MPs: 31, against 119, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, we're about to take an oath. Please, Mr. Kochkov... [[Noise and lines.]] Procedure before that Mr. Stoilov. [[Noise and lines.]] We're not done with the agenda yet... [[Heckling]] Actually, Mr. Stoilov, you're out. Please state your procedure, and then I'll proceed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I just want to take this opportunity at the beginning to congratulate this part of the Bulgarian citizens who are celebrating this day. These are Bulgarian Roma or Gypsies, as everyone prefers to define themselves. [[Applause.]] But I am also going out to propose to you to invite the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov, to give information about Bulgaria's energy prospects and especially about the widely proclaimed gas hub, which should be done at the border of Bulgaria. I'm saying this because last night from the reports, with a very unpleasant national feeling, we adopted his absence from the five-year format of countries that are already negotiating the new project. And this absence of the Bulgarian country is a sign that does not have good prospects. If he believes that this is not the case, I hope that you will inform him, let him come and say: what will be Bulgaria's place in transit, in the transmission of gas, and do we have such prospects in the new projects that are going in the eastern direction, to Central Europe, to take once again, if we do not have a leading place, what we were given for a moment, at least to arrange ourselves in this chain? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u7	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly Mr. Atanas Merdjanov from the group of BSP left Bulgaria 22b of the Law on Taxes on Incomes of Individuals, submitted by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. On the basis of art. 50, para. The 3th sentence of our Rules of Procedure, this proposal is inadmissible because, when a proposal on this basis has been submitted to the Chamber and rejected by a decision of the Members of the National Assembly, it cannot be submitted earlier than a month. There's an oath coming. Please invite Mr. Kochkov. He was elected a member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission from the quota of the water sector, but did not take an oath last Thursday. [[Everyone gets up.]] Please repeat the swearing words after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u8	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u9	Congratulations, Mr. Kochkov! [[Applause.]] Bills and draft decisions for the time from 1 to 7 April 2015: - A bill for amendment and supplement of the Labour Code, importers - Petar Slavov and a group of MPs leading the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy; - Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in the state power and local self-government, importers "Mariana Georgieva and a group of MPs, leading the Committee on Legal Affairs, and the Commission on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Complaints of Citizens; - A bill for amendment and supplement of the Code of Commercial Shipping, importers Plamen Manushev, Ivan Valkov and Pavel Hristov, leading the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications; - Report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 July 2014 to 31 December 2014, importer of the Council for Electronic Media, is assigned to the Committee on Culture and Media; - Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judicial Authority, importers - Draft decision on the award of the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of the implementation: the effectiveness and effectiveness of the banking supervision carried out by BNB for the period from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2014, importers - Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs, is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance; - A bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on excises and tax warehouses, importers Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs, is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance; - Annual report on the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2014, the Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is assigned to the Committee on Education and Science; - Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Law on the Judicial Government, importers. suppliers Borislav Borisov and a group of MPs, is assigned to the Committee on Legal Affairs; - A bill to supplement the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, an importer of the Council of Ministers, is assigned to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. - Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Penal Procedure, importing the Council of Ministers, has been assigned to the Committee on Legal Affairs; - Draft amendment and supplement to the Water Act, the Council of Ministers, the Committee on Environment and Waters, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism; - Draft decision for amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is an importer of Velizar Enchev, is assigned to the Legal Commission. On 3 April 2014 the National Statistical Institute received information on key indicators for the development of the economy in the Republic of Bulgaria on 2 April 2015. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Mr. Methodiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today 8 April is the International Roma Day. The date was proposed in 1992 by the International Organisation "Romano Yuon" and was recognised by the UN and the European Union. Long before that, on April 8, 1971, a World Roma Congress was held in London for the first time involving representatives of Roma from 30 countries from all continents. There is the beginning of the World Roma movement for the validation and development of Roma culture and identity. In general, the barriers created over the years before the real inclusion of Roma in many European countries, including Bulgaria, are problems of national policies. This is one of the main reasons for this ethnic group to be, unfortunately, a satellite and the Bulgarian society. However, I dare to properly recognise the activities of the various strategies in recent years for Roma inclusion in the hope that at least there is a selfless desire that the objectives identified in them should be adequate. The objectives in social aspect of the International Roma Day are to unite and systematize the efforts of the International Roma Movement, as well as to attract the attention of the world public on the problems of the traditionally minority Roma. The problems and their priorities are constant from time to time. Regardless of what systematic order they are arranged in, they are several: - Roma today in many countries, including here, face lack of quality and sometimes simple education. At the same time Roma children are part of the wealth of this ethnicity and the hope for a better life and a bright future. - The health issues have never ceased to be relevant. - Unemployment and the lack of systemic and sustainable employment are the reason for the unsatisfactory standard of living. Residential conditions are getting heavier and time escalating problem. - The deliberate segregation and discrimination based on prejudice are a serious ulcer for the Bulgarian society. - The recent voice of hatred, the rejection of sometimes elementary tolerance and disrespect for an ancient human culture, such as the Roma culture, are very demotivating factors for Roma integration in society. Political will for these so important, so up-to-date topics must be supported, encouraged and encouraged in a conscious way, with concrete political action. Not only parliament and government, but together with the local authorities, NGOs and the Roma community should be partners in solving these problems. Only in this format of permanent partnership, interaction and dialogue would benefit and effect. When searching for these solutions it is imperative to find that balance between respect for the rights of the Roma community and, together with that, to accentuate the fact that it is necessary to understand the obligations of the Roma community in Bulgaria. Roma problems are undoubtedly an internal issue directly related to the integrity of ethnicities in society. In this sense, however, it is relevant for a large part of European countries. This is precisely why we need to express our common concern about the fact that it has not so far been made and adopted in cooperation between the Member States of the European Union, a Single European Strategy for Roma Inclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, on this day we must all make it clear that racism, xenophobia and hatred have no place in the democratic world! On April 8, the world honors the memory of the fallen in the Holocaust Roma during World War II. In addition to being a day of honor, reckoning, and sending messages of peace, this is the day when we must bow our heads to all of us, regardless of the color of our skin, and accept good human treatment among ourselves, for it is a gift from the Most High to all of us who live and create on this planet. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u11	Thank you, Mr. Methodiev. Moving on to point one: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR MOVEMENT IN THE ROADS. Procedure Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Due to the high public interest in the changes in the Law on Traffic on the Roads, we from the Party of Ataka are proposing that the first item be broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u13	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal for direct broadcast on National Television and National Radio on the first vote on bills amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act. They voted 143 MPs: 38, against 59, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. Reports have been received from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, as well as from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government and from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Mr. Karadjov, we are waiting for the reports of your Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Please, on the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber: Mr. Boyko Ranovski, Head of the Department of the Directorate General of the National Police and Mrs. Katerina Hadzhieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u15	We vote, fellow Members. 110 MPs voted: 100, against 3, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests. We're listening, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u16	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 554-01-45, submitted by the People's Representative Petar Slavov on 10 March 2015; Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 554-01-50, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 12 March 2015; Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 554-01-55, submitted by Pavel Hristov and a group of MPs on 20 March 2015; and Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 554-01-59, submitted by Svetlin Tanchev and a group of MPs on 26 March 2015. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 1 April 2015, were discussed: Draft amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 554-01-45, submitted by the National Representative Petar Slavov on 10 March 2015; Draft amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 554-01-50, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 12 March 2015; Draft amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 554-01-55, submitted by Pavel Hristov and a group of MPs on 20 March 2015; and Draft amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 554-01-59, submitted by Svetlin Tanchev and a group of MPs on 26 March 2015. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Interior: Mr. Boyko Ranovski, Head of Department of the Directorate General of the National Police and Mrs. Katerina Hadzhieva, State Expert at the Directorate of Legal and Regulatory Activity. The Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act introduced by the National Representative Petar Slavov provides that the traffic lights of the intensive traffic intersections, which do not have a function to indicate the end of the green signal by blinking, are equipped with devices indicating this by three-fold blinking. The bill enables traffic lights to be synchronised by a road artery in such a way as to enable motor vehicles moving in the main direction to a continuous green signal when travelling at a specified recommended speed. It is also envisaged that a one-year period within which the competent public and municipal authorities in charge of public-use roads will take the necessary action to implement the measures adopted. The representatives of the Ministry of Interior argued that a careful assessment should be made of the need to adopt such provisions regulating relations which have already received detailed regulations. Similar is the position in the opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria on the bill. The bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs provides that the relevant municipal council will determine the parking price of the places designated for this, as well as the terms and conditions for its payment by the leaders of a specialized unit of the municipality or the designated legal entity. According to the importers of the Bill, it would thus be possible for municipalities to determine its size on a market basis according to the demand for parking places in different areas of the settlements, as well as to regulate the quantity of vehicles in their central parts. The bill also provides for an addition to art. 6 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. It is offered by separate law and regulation of the municipal council to arrange the use of municipal sidewalks, squares and street sails or parts of them as areas for paid and free parking. The representatives of the Ministry of Interior have expressed their opinion that they support proposals that could lead to improving the organisation of movement in settlements and to creating a better order in organising and controlling the parking of vehicles. On the bill were received opinions from the Ministry of Finance and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. In the opinion of the Ministry of Finance it is noted that in cases where the amounts paid for stay in the parking spaces are a local fee within the meaning of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, the collected funds should be entered into the budget of the municipality. However, if the price is paid, the same may be collected by the organisation that manages the parking spaces, as well as used to improve parking spaces or to achieve other objectives included in its subject matter as defined by the municipal council. The opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria states that the introduction of a parking price allows for its flexible determination according to the needs of citizens and in accordance with the real market processes. At the same time, it is noted that according to the imperative provisions of art. 45, para. 1, t. The revenue from the prices of services entered the municipal budget in the public finance Act. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Road Traffic, submitted by Pavel Hristov and a group of MPs, proposes to be punished with a fine of 200 BGN. persons who park road vehicles in parks, gardens, playgrounds and sidewalks in settlements outside the designated places. In this regard, the punishment of BGN 20 is also laid down. of a driver who wrongly parks on the sidewalk. The bill also provides for an addition to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, which empowers the relevant municipal council to adopt regulations relating to the passage, parking and stay of road vehicles on parks, gardens, playgrounds and sidewalks in the settlements outside the designated places, as well as to determine the amount of fines and/or penalties. During the discussion on the Bill, representatives of the Ministry of Interior said they supported the Bill. Regarding § 3, a position was expressed that such a norm already exists, as in the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration (Art. 21, para. (2) as well as in the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Similar comments were expressed in the opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. The Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act introduced by Svetlin Tanchev and a group of MPs provides for a provision allowing the turn to the right at the red light of the traffic light, with the driver obliged to skip the pedestrians, not to interfere with the traffic and to turn when he is satisfied that the road is free to pass. According to importers, this would lead to a reduction in traffic jams in cities and would facilitate traffic. During the debates on the bill, the representatives of the Ministry of Interior stated that they considered the provision of art. 35, para. 4 of the Law to remain in its previous version. It contains the possibility of turning right at the red light of the traffic light, but having been assessed by the competent authorities on the basis of an analysis of the traffic situation and the conflict points for the particular intersection, so as to ensure both easy and safe passage through the intersection. Allowing the passage of a red signal to turn right without the necessary traffic organisation would create additional prerequisites for the occurrence of a traffic accident and conflicting situations between the drivers of motor vehicles, as well as between drivers and crossing pedestrians. Following the discussion and opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications: - with 1 vote............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - with 10 votes "for" and 4 votes "abstained" proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Road Traffic, No 554-01-50, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 12 March 2015; - with 12 votes "for" and 2 votes "abstained" proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Road Traffic, No 554-01-55, submitted by Pavel Hristov and a group of MPs on 20 March 2015; - with 2 votes in favour, 2 votes in favour and 8 votes in abstentions is proposed by the National Assembly not to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Road Traffic Act, No 554-01-59, submitted by Svetlin Tanchev and a group of MPs on 26 March 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u17	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. I recall that committees that are not leading may present their report in summary. The next report is from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. The Commission has three reports. Mr. Nayden of Zelenogorski will present them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will present to you the Commission's report on the submitted bill by Mr. Petar Slavov. At our regular meeting held on 19 March 2015, we examined the relevant bill. He was presented by his importer Mr. Peter Slavov. I'll concentrate on the decision and the remarks, so we don't waste time. We have heard the opinions of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Ministry of Interior and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. The Ministry of Transport expresses principled support for the bill. The Ministry of Interior draws attention to the need to assess the need to adopt provisions in the Law which have already received detailed regulations in Decree No 17 of 2001. In its opinion, the National Association of Municipalities pays particular attention that the proposed amendments and additions fall entirely within the scope of the Rules for the Implementation of the Road Traffic Act, with the latest amendments and additions made to it in Decree No 22 of February 2015, have introduced requirements similar to those proposed in the Law, with the respective deadlines for their stage implementation. There was also a discussion on the basis of the discussion the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 3 votes................................................................................................................................................................ The next report was submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs. He was presented by Mr. Stanislav Ivanov. The relevant discussion was held in the Commission, and we heard the opinions of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, expressing principle support for the transformation of the parking fee into a service price. It is important to note that in this case it would not be possible for the revenues not to enter the municipal budget because according to the imperative provisions of art. 45, para. 1, t. 1 letter "in" of the Public Finance Act, revenues from prices of services are entered into the municipal budget. In this context, concrete proposals have been made to refine the proposed provisions in the Bill. We have also heard the opinion of the Sofia Public Council Association, which also disagreed with the proposed change. In the discussion and the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 6 votes in favour of the Council and 4 votes in abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Road Movement Act submitted by Mr. Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs to be adopted in the first vote. The third report is on the bill submitted by Mr. Pavel Hristov, Plamen Manushev and Tsvetomir Mihov. This bill was reviewed at a regular Commission meeting held on 2 April 2015. The bill was presented by the MP Paul Hristov. The opinions of the Ministry of Interior and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria were heard, expressing principled support. All the MPs who spoke supported the need for the proposed changes. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 8 votes in the House, without the opposition and 5 votes in the National Assembly, proposed to the National Assembly that the specific bill be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u19	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. The next report belongs to the Committee on Budget and Finance under the Bill submitted by the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs. From the Committee on Budget and Finance, who will present the report to the Commission? Madam President of the Commission, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 554-01-50, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 12 March 2015. At a meeting held on 2 April 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Financial Policy Directorate at the Ministry of Finance. The bill was presented by the MP Stanislav Ivanov. The Law proposes that, when using the parking places, no fee shall be paid under the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, but that a price be paid for the service determined by the municipal council when the service is provided by a specialized unit of the municipality or by a legal person under art. 12, para. 1, t. 13 of the Public Procurement Act. It is proposed that this provision should not apply where parking spaces are provided for management and maintenance under the Law on concessions. The reasons for the proposed amendments are that the municipalities will thus be able to determine the price of the service on a market basis according to the demand for parking places in the different areas of the settlements and the means to be collected as a price of the service will be able to remain available to the organisation managing the parking places and to spend for purposes related to its subject of activity. After the presentation of the Bill a discussion was held, where the members of the Commission were acquainted with the opinions of the Ministry of Finance and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. Both opinions are for the principled support of the Bill by proposing the clarification of some of the provisions. Attention shall be paid to the provision of art. 45, para. 1, t. Point 1 (c) of the Public Finance Act, according to which the revenues from services are included in the municipal budget and that it would be unlawful if the revenues from the use of parking spaces remained in the commercial companies to which they were granted to manage them. In the course of the discussion, the members of the Commission also agreed on the opinion on the principle of support for the bill, and between its two votes should be discussed the proposals of the Ministry of Finance and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and the corresponding amendments to the proposed provisions should be made and the second sentence of art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3 to ensure that there is no exception and to apply a uniform methodology for determining the price for the use of parking spaces. After the discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:............................... 15 MPs..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, at first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 554-01-50, submitted by the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 12 March 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Honourable Members, it follows to present the drafts on behalf of the importers following their entry into the National Assembly. First there is this opportunity the people representative Petar Slavov. Here you are, Mr. Slavov, to present your bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the proposals I have made for amendments to the Road Traffic Act concern these devices, which in recent years we have been seeing more and more at very busy intersections, the so-called counters and a device to count the end of the green signal. We all know them, they concern both the drivers and the pedestrians, because they are placed on both the traffic lights and the pedestrians. What is the problem on which I seek permission through this legislative proposal? Currently, there is a relatively vague provision in the Law that says that such devices are placed on the intersections with intensive movement. However, the bad news is that the Law does not say which intersections have intensive movement. Here I will ask you purely practically for example the intersection in front of the Hotel Hemus. Is this one with intensive movement or not? Or, for example, under the so-called Bridge of the Sighs of the National Palace of Culture, the big intersection of the Evlogi Georgiev and the Black Peak, is it an intensive movement, or is it not? Obviously, they're perceived as unintensibly moving intersections because these devices aren't installed there. I think we can all agree that they are one of the busiest intersections in Sofia. In other words, what is proposed is to be clearly formulated in the law where such counters or devices are not placed, to take into account the traffic lights themselves and by blinking to perform the same function in order to practically cover all major intersections in one or the other form. In general, the idea was generally supported by the Commission to which I presented it. The main problems were, of course, financial. Mainly the financial considerations prevailed for colleagues to vote abstention. What I have thought, and what I will propose between the two readings, if this bill is supported, is this. You know, big cities have the opportunity to use, within the framework of operational programmes from the European Union, funding for the so-called Within them, such a thing could also be financed. It is even nice to see that within these programmes this is being financed so that we do not subsequently do it a second time. With regard to smaller municipalities that do not have access to such funding, there the solution I will propose is to do this with a decision of the municipal council, that is, to decide on the basis of their own assessment of the resources at their disposal, whether they can really carry this out within a year or two. Everything is done naturally, for the sake of traffic safety and, of course, for the convenience of all participants in it. This is actually a shortcut the meaning of the proposal made.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u23	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. The next bill is from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, to present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I and a group of MPs have taken the liberty of offering your attention to consider at first reading the PID, which concerns a change in the Road Traffic Act. What do we mean by our proposal? So far, dear colleagues, in the cities where there is paid... In the settlements, in fact, because not only in the cities there are separate parking areas, in the settlements where there are such separate areas, a parking fee is currently being collected under the Road Traffic Act. But this fee, according to the legislation, when I use the term "the tax" must be cost-oriented. For this reason, since it is impossible to prove for each particular case the commitment of the costs to the charge imposed, sometimes differences are received and therefore a number of legal practices have created the possibility not to collect this fee. At the moment, what we are proposing is to change the term "the tax" to the term "the price." The price is required for a service that performs a certain establishment for a particular activity. She's regulated, she doesn't need to be tied up. In this way, we will end those practices that have existed so far. There are no prerequisites to reassure all colleagues about the possibility of raising the price at the time when the term "price" is changed with the term "price." There is no possibility that this will happen because not individuals who exercise this activity, and the municipal councils in the settlements will decide what this price will be on the one hand. On the other hand, there is an opportunity to make a decision to do this... That's what we're proposing, of course. It may not only be carried out by legal entities, this activity may be carried out by municipal enterprises or by the structures of the municipalities themselves. They should appoint employees who can carry out this work. In the Law we have written that these services can be granted on concession. Dear colleagues, this text has sparked many debates. And so far, municipalities, if they wish, have the right to concession this kind of activity, but given that it may not really be legal-technically valid for this term to be here in this bill. After talks with colleagues from the Patriotic Front, ABB and the other groups, we decided that this term could be dropped so that there would be no ambiguity and any cause for concern that this is a practice that can be used from here on. So, in a nutshell, fellow Members, this is the main thing we are proposing. We are proposing in the Law on Local Taxes and Fees through the Final Provisions to create para. 3 in art. 6 to exclude the places for which a price will be collected from the places for which it is legally determined to collect a fee. That's the supplement. My fellow Members, I say again: what we are doing is essentially changing the terms of the fee with the price. This will lead to an opportunity for municipalities and settlements to carry out this activity and to collect revenue from this type of activity. Thank you for your attention. I hope you'll support the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Next is a bill for amendment and supplement of the roads submitted by the MP Pavel Alexeev Hristov and a group of MPs. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In short, the proposal we are making to amend and supplement the Road Traffic Act concerns parking in parks, gardens, playgrounds and sidewalks in settlements outside the areas permitted for that purpose. This is a topic that is currently regulated in the current Law on Road Traffic, but the sanctions are respectively BGN 20. We specifically propose that the penalty be increased to 200 BGN, as the preventive nature with the low fines is not achieved and we are daily witnesses of insolent and arrogant parking in almost all settlements in the country's territory. Accordingly, the drivers 20 leva. do not startle them and continue to park seamlessly on playgrounds, sidewalks, respectively, to destroy parts of these places. These are funds that municipalities then allocate to restore them, and the amount of funds is much higher than the amount of fines that are imposed. Many municipalities in Bulgaria have tried to solve the problem by defining a higher amount of fines in regulations adopted by a decision of the municipal council, but subsequently there is a practice in which the courts impose the lower amount of the fine, namely 20 or 30 BGN, because the Law on Road Traffic has a higher value than the relevant regulations and thus offering an increase in the fine, we believe that this problem will be at least somewhat resolved. Again, the main idea is to have a preventative nature and to subsequently prevent parking in such places that become a daily obstacle for children, for parents, mothers with strollers, elderly people, people with disabilities. I hope the bill is supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u27	Thank you, Mr. Christov. And the last, fourth Draft Law submitted by the National Representative Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev and a group of MPs. Here you are, Mr. Tanchev, to present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! My offer is rather short. In order to facilitate traffic in the busy cities to some extent, my proposal is a practice that exists in quite large and loaded countries, on a right turn at a red light without an advantage after a full stop of the car and not taking advantage of an advantage over pedestrians or other vehicles passing directly can be done without interfering with any right turn after a full stop. This is for the purpose, again, to facilitate to some extent traffic in large cities and is a practice that is also known in other countries. I would like to stress once again that there is in no way a reduction in the advantage of pedestrians who pass on the pedestrian path. I think that's resonant. It is worth thinking about this fact, especially the drivers, and thinking about whether it would be resonant in Bulgaria to introduce this practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u29	Thank you, Mr. Tanchev. That was the last performance. I'm opening the debates on the four draft amendments to the Road Traffic Act. Come in for a speech, Mr. Bayraktarov. [[Reply from MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] Mr. Mihov, would you like to make a statement? Deal with Mr. Bayraktarov first.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it is good to make a comment on all the bills, as they refer to an amendment to the same law. I will start with the proposed amendments by my colleague Stanislav Ivanov. By the way, my congratulations, colleague Ivanov, because long ago it had to be replaced by the price. However, it is good to explain to the general public and to colleagues that we are talking about the so-called "sync" and "green" zones. If the government is trying to fill the budget with serious measures to limit smuggling, to limit the grey economy, I think this is where we should make an effort, colleagues, to start the municipalities to fill their budgets. It is a public secret that the blue areas and the green areas are the taps for draining some funds. Since we made a comment with colleague Ivanov, I would like to explain that between first and second readings, apart from the need to settle the concept of the price, it must be introduced that the owner applies both strictly and compulsory Regulation N 18. What's that supposed to mean, guys? After applying the concept of the price, we will already have a commercial activity that has been bypassed by municipalities through the concept of the. I can tell you that there are paradoxes that indicate that a parking space brings 10 pennies of revenue. And I'm telling you this on the basis of official reports published by individual mayors of certain major district cities. In an inspection, it turns out that the so-called "parcomates" are in no way connected online with the National Revenue Agency. Notice, we are very strict and insist that vending machines or coffee machines are connected online for one coffee of forty pennies, and each sale is accounted for, and where money printing is, it turns out that there is no connection with the National Revenue Agency. So this will be the second condition in the Law. More than that. There is also a third abuse by municipalities, which must be legally regulated. In para. 2 of art. 99 it is clearly and accurately written that the owners, in this case these are ordinary municipalities, as it is urban areas, should mark the parking spaces, only such a miracle does not happen. I can even point to the cities of Plovdiv, Stara Zagora, Burgas, Varna. All the streets, you see, the slick guy put up a sign that it's a blue, green zone, but... [[GERB lines.]] When I say there is, it means there is because I took pictures of them. Here, a serious control of the Law should already be required and responsibility should be borne. As they say, to do everything possible for municipalities to be filled with serious funds and to ease transfers from Republican to municipal budget. I strongly support what my colleague Ivanov said that the concept of opportunity to grant concessions should be dismissed. However, these are usually public property supposed to be municipal or state. As long as we've already given public property to concessions. To tell you that by giving in such a blue concession zone, this means that the price can become an hour, two, three, five, because the right to set a price is already on the concessionaire and no one can control it even. Under the Bill on the imposition of fines of 200 leva. Parking in parks, green areas and so on. If I had to say my personal opinion, I would even impose 300 BGN, because for years we have been showing, we are broadcasting such outrageous things. Indeed there was a gap in the Law and even if an act was imposed, it was appealed and went to a fine of 20-30 BGN. Literally, it was given the opportunity for intruders to mock the state and the municipality, so we will support this proposal. To ease the movement by turning right. Mr. Tanchev, there is a lot of logic in your proposal, but still this opportunity is given by the Law on Local Self-government and in particular to the local administrations themselves to regulate the movement. In my opinion, we should not legally seize the functions of the local administration. First of all, because we are violating the so-called self-government. Secondly, because there is no better connoisseur of movement in a municipality than the administration itself. I trust you'll agree with me. We will not support this proposal, not because it makes no sense, but because it has already been given the opportunity for this regulation. Moreover, it is not appropriate to resolve the turn to the right at each intersection. You know that there are different complex intersections, with different traffic loads and with different load and pedestrian flow. The legislator has therefore rightly assessed that this function must be attributed to local self-government. That's what I want to tell you, colleagues. I hope that my colleague Stanislav Ivanov and I will consider the texts on the proposals in his Bill and get to the right solutions as possible because they are in favor of the Bulgarian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u31	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, before you congratulate the importers on Mr. Ivanov's Bill, I want you to meet him personally before you support him. How many BGN in Sofia in the last five, six, ten years have entered the municipal budget of the blue zone? In order not to bother you, I will tell you in the municipal budget zero leva. [[Noise and lines from GERB. A line from the MP Stanislav Ivanov. A line from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] So before you do support this bill, it's nice to see it in detail. Accepting what is proposed, this thing will happen across Bulgaria, so be careful what you support.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u33	Second line? Mr. Stanislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u34	Thank you, Madam President. I am sure that Mr. Bajraktarov has read the Bill, as I am sure he knows well the practice we are trying to regulate at the moment, and perhaps he is also very well aware, colleagues, that at the moment a decision of the Municipal Council is being distributed these funds. So he doesn't go into the budget directly, he goes through...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u35	Make a line of Mr. Bayraktarov, not Mr. Svilenski to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u36	Madam President, he did not say it and raised doubt in colleagues that he had not read the Law, I replicated it to be a little more precise in his speech so that it could become clear what we are talking about. [[Noise and lines. Awesome.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u37	And to state from the stands that he has read the Law. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u38	Thank you, Madam President. I declare from the stands that I have read the Law, and not only him, but all regulations and related laws. Mr. Svilensky, unlike you, I've read the Law, I'm also a financier, a budgeter, and it's a little awkward for you to teach me. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB. Revelations: "Eeeee! "]] Why aren't they in the budget in Sofia Municipality? For one simple reason, they are managed by a company and a dividend is charged. So take it and you study... [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Of course it's zero because it's not at stake as budget revenue. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] That is precisely why I congratulated Mr. Ivanov because we will finally try to put control over these boxes, as you admit, with your line that they exist. That's why I congratulated Mr. Ivanov. I told you and I gave you examples that there are municipalities, if you are holding I will tell you what the municipality is called Burgas Municipality, which reported in its 2013 report that a parking space brings revenue of 10 centimeters, which was absurd. We ran a background check and didn't want to tell you what the results were. So I congratulated my colleague Ivanov because, believe me, I am very familiar with this topic, more than you can imagine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u39	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. To speak, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u40	Thank you, Madam President. My speech will be a little different. The same, or at least similar, I did in the Commission, not pretending to express the opinion of a large group, and that is my personal opinion. I'm not going to talk about the four bills, more generally about what we're doing. I dare say we're about to make another insanity of the Road Traffic Act. In 2009, when I first joined the Transport Commission, the entire front page of the Law was filled with the number of amendments to the Law. The amendments were about 50, currently over 90. If you make a rough bill, one time a month. For five years, we have changed the Road Traffic Act once a month. Just imagine what this leads to. You know that on the basis of the Law, regulations for its implementation are also being printed. Under the Regulations and the Law, control bodies work, students take their driving licenses, take exams, flyers and so on. The Bulgarian Court of Justice works under the Rules and Law when criminal decrees are appealed. Only two weeks ago came into effect after the promulgation in the Official Gazette, the latest amendments to the Law. Two weeks after that we change it again, and four times it has four different bills, which means that the latest amendments have probably not yet been printed. At some point, the control authorities are wondering which law to impose sanctions by stopping someone on the road, whether on the one we changed last week, whether on the one we are changing today or on the one we are changing next week. My impression is that basically everyone who is a driver has an opinion under the Road Traffic Act and we make insane suggestions. In the committee, I heard a lot about you driving, and at a crossroads he saw something he didn't like, he tabled an amendment. The other one stopped where you are, fined him or not fined him, we'll make an amendment. It's the easiest thing to do to change the Road Traffic Act, but no one ever thinks about what this leads to. I have made an appeal in the Commission, which, unfortunately, none of my fellow Members have complied with. That is what I have also said to the previous remarks colleagues, let us sit everyone, together with the Ministry of Transport, with the Ministry of Interior, the colleagues of the portfolio Commission, all interested and make a whole new law that we know in the next few years will not be changed, that people based on it can print their rules and everyone in the chain to work calmly, not every week, to whomever they want to make changes. I'm sure there'll be another change next week. Someone doesn't like the cameras, give them, we'll cut them down, or the tickets or something. I therefore make another call: that all importers withdraw their bills, sit down and make a new law. We can do this quickly and in due time. I am sure that neither the colleagues who have now imported, including I am one of the importers, supported the colleague from Varna, will happen in a month or two who-knows what problems due to these amendments that have been tabled at the moment. I guarantee you that these are neither the first nor the last. In just a week or two, another madman will decide something else, let's change, it's the easiest thing to do to change this law. That is why, in essence, I will not speak, I did not vote in the Commission on the four drafts, not because of the nature of the bills, I agree with much, with another one, not because of the belief that this law should be made entirely again and that we should not do every week or two amendments in a row. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u41	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova. Otherwise, Mr. Mihov's call is good. Indeed, it turns out that this is the Law on which a maximum number of MPs have exclusive competence, but frequent changes in it hardly speak well of quality in legislation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I join what Mr. Mihov said despite my very complex feelings for him, but it is worth it, if there is wisdom, to withdraw the four bills.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u43	The important thing is to have feelings, indifference is unpleasant.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u44	Honourable colleagues, I accept that in the three laws of Petar Slavov, Pavel Hristov and Svetlin Tanchev, there is a sincere idea and kindness to assist the movement and organization on the roads, to ease themselves, to get into norms that will be more useful. It would be good if this were done in a complex reading, as my colleague suggested before me, and we found that regulation that is necessary. According to the bill submitted by colleague Stanislav Ivanov, Madam President, you, with your face before the Association of Municipalities, said: "I will be a guarantor not to write draft laws. In § 1, the amendment to art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3, law professors said they would take this text and show it to students as the worst example of legislation. See what's inside: The Municipal Council determines the price and then says....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I am personally ashamed of the colleagues who wrote this text to them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u45	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u46	Here there is some desire to do something that will not be the good face of the Bulgarian Parliament. Secondly, with this bill, we aim to change not one, but three bills. I want to tell you, colleagues, from experience that for everything that is currently being offered, there is a legal basis. There's a law on road traffic, there's a law on local taxes and fees. Each municipal council is in its freedom to regulate, according to the situation and the situation. Perhaps my colleague Mihov and I are more romantic about this proposal. However, when the motives are read, it becomes clear what this change is made for. There are several litigations in the ground first. With this bill, do we do a service and which mayor should be removed from the judicial procedure so that the judicial procedure relating to a decision of the municipal council is not appealed? Here it is very clearly written that this service is already being marketed because in point. 1 writes: The owner normally provides services as an economic activity for a price and not as a social service for a fee. Dear colleagues, municipalities primarily have utilities, social services for the benefit of citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u47	Then it's a fee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u48	Yeah, that's the fee, and that's why it's cost-effective. We're now putting a price on it, making a big market. You say we're going to put the price in the city council, but they don't have any funds now. There will be a mobility company. All options are listed below. The capital of whether to be a municipal company with 80, with 100, the options on which commercial companies can be created are given. And now taxes and fees are in the total revenue of local taxes and fees, and now with this money you can do asphalting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u49	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u50	And now you can do asphalting. What are we gonna do? We will collect these funds with the road tax and other funds, and the municipal councillors will dispose. Now what do we do? We will bypass the bill, we will put the price in the budget, and with the budget we will support the structures that collect the price, as you call it. To me, it's a bill that gives nothing to municipalities. Perhaps it gives a message to the citizens: "Happy is the higher price of parking! " These are the real questions you're asking. Here maybe we should read the text that's changing. He says that art. 99 introduces the possibility for the owner or administration managing the road to enter paid or free parking at certain hours of the day in the settlements. Municipal councils may set a fee for this parking under the law. Very clearly, everything has its municipal councils, they can make their decision, they can make their own regulation, including something that is disturbing, the Sofia Public Council says that municipal councils can release in the interblock spaces for those living there to be free of charge. What are we saying right now? We make a lobbying law, we do something on our feet and on our knees with something vague. Give her the financial justification! Therefore, perhaps he is really right for the first time, my colleague Mihov. The best thing is to divert these bills, to withdraw them, today Parliament to reject them and give the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Finance the right to hear this debate and to bring in some normal laws. Otherwise, by this bill, if it were adopted in this form, I would personally be ashamed, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u51	First line Mr. Bajraktarov, second line Mr. Ivanov. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Yankova, I have infinite respect for you, at least because you're Rodopean. Only when we say things, we have to say them all the way. I would like to ask you: You, for the second tax which has been introduced into a number of municipalities, have you become a resident in this apartment and, see, through a sticker that is charged as a fee, you pay a second tax? [[Replications of the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] Don't call, Zablyanov, I don't replicate you!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u53	Please do not engage in dialogue with the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u54	Mr. Chairman, if you please, put order in place. That is why I congratulated my colleague Ivanov because the introduction of the concept of the price will now enable us to rescue citizens from this second tax, which will be one of the proposals between first and second readings. So that is why I ask you: Do you, Mrs. Yankova, encourage this wicked practice?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u55	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u56	More than that! I absolutely agree with you that an opportunity will be given. Nobody knows what motor vehicle tax is being spent on today. You, if you can, go out and explain what it's spending on, because no one has ever given such breakdowns, and this is one of the biggest revenue sources in municipal budgets. So no wonder by raising revenue in the budget people at local levels to even ask for a reduction in garbage tax. It makes a lot of sense. It's a question of vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u57	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Second line, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Yankova, what I would like to say for a start is that I would never allow myself to propose a Bill Mrs. Yankova, you may have read the opinion very well from the Association of Municipalities, in which it says: "We support in principle the proposed project and the need for changes in art. Ninety-nine. Isn't that right, Mrs. Yankova? That's right! So this thing is consistent with the municipalities. We have their opinion, their remark, which between first and second reading will be discussed with colleagues and may change in this direction. But you are misleading the House by quoting the name of the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Tsacheva, that she has promised. Yeah, it's been promised, and we're doing it. We're not hiding from this thing, Mrs. Yankova. This one, first. Secondly, what do you see wrong with the proposals in para. 3 of art. 99 The Municipal Council shall determine the parking price of the places under para. 1, as well as the terms and conditions for the payment by the leaders of the specialized unit of the municipality, demek of the structure of the municipality, a legal person under art. 12? Dear colleagues, who introduced art. 12 I can't think of what's called a house award? That's what you introduced him to the previous parliament. If you consider because you were talking, Mrs. Yankova, that you are making lobbying laws, if you believe you are making lobbying laws and you have introduced this text because of lobbying, I would like to guarantee that we, with our colleagues from the Reformation bloc and the other parties who support the coalition at the moment, have no such purpose. We do not read the Bill in order to avoid or create a lobbying law because of art. 12 You have accepted it, and we are using the good of this article to carry out this award and to enable municipalities to work peacefully. I do not see the problem, since there is a positive opinion from both the Ministry of Finance and the Association of Municipalities and the Ministry of Interior. What's the problem? Or you just said we're against. Why do you mind? Not a single argument! I didn't hear an argument!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Yankova, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u60	Mr. Chairman, Madam President! Mr. Bayraktarov, it's very different from what you say, from what you accept. The philosophy of our group, including the left in Sofia Municipality for these stickers, is that they have always been against it. We don't approve of that. This is not a policy that has been tolerated by the representatives of the left. Regarding what my colleague Ivanov said. Yes, I have read the proposal carefully, only that you have read the first part, and you have seen that there must be a very different text that you will probably rewrite for a second reading on behalf of the Association of Municipalities so that there may still be some regulation of your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u61	They don't mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u62	But, look, it's different philosophy, colleagues. We believe that the utilities offered by municipalities should also be social.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u63	Not social!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u64	And you're not a right-wing party for a reason, you think this should be a market. Therefore, when it becomes a price, the price does not have a cost-based basis. It is not for a reason that you say that this should be given a concession, you recommend to a company or any other urban mobility and you will actually collect all the support there and form the price. It is normal that this price in the previous zones will be different, as well as the fee in the different areas, if municipalities decide, it can be different. I suggest to you in terms of the inhouse award not to speculate. This is a European practice, according to a European directive. When you have a hundred percent municipal and state-owned company, you can make an award.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u65	That's the idea.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u66	That we have adopted it is a harmonisation of European legislation. This speculation you have made was in the style in which you are assigned the role here, to speculate a little and to coquet, diverting the attention of the National Assembly from the essential problems. I think it's an important question. The issue is yet to create problems for Mayor Fandakova and the big mayors. That's what you really do. You can legally go around something, but there's really going to be problems.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. To speak, George Svilenski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u68	Without speculating.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u69	Mr. Ivanov, I urge you not to engage in dialogue with the speakers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u70	He hasn't spoken yet.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really ask you, if Mr. Ivanov calls, not to punish him. I'm used to it, so it won't bother me, leave it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u72	That's not up to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u73	Yeah, yeah. I just asked you to. My fellow Members, I will take account of all four bills, but above all I would like to express my agreement on the opinion of Mr. Mihov, who urged the importers to withdraw the bills, to make a group to start working on a new Road Traffic Act. I was one of those pioneers in the previous parliament. Unfortunately, there wasn't enough time. But we are all convinced that we need a new law, and indeed the Road Traffic Act is this law that gives all MPs the greatest opportunities for a legislative initiative. But if we make it into a piece, anyone who's ever met a problem in the morning, coming to work or stopping a traffic cop, or traveling in public transport, I don't think we're gonna make a good law. I therefore appeal to the withdrawal of all the bills and an hour rather than starting work on a new bill. Now under the law of colleague Ivanov. I'm aware of the whole problem. If you are impressed, importers of the bill are MPs from Sofia.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u74	Not just that. That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u75	I think you're mostly from Sofia. This is because indeed the biggest problem in the case of whether to be a fee or a price concerns Sofia Municipality. On 17 May is the case before the Supreme Administrative Court, which must confirm or cancel the case so far was at two instances, the repealed Parking Regulation. If the Supreme Administrative Court confirms this sanction, in practice, the Centre for Urban Mobility will not have a legal act to work on. Stoicians won't know what happens to parking in the city either. We, as a parliamentary group, and before as municipal councillors, have always been about having a parking order, there are clearly regulated rules, but such that they are legal; such that the citizens know by which decree they are sanctioned, by which regulation their car is towed, by which regulation their clamp is placed. At the moment, if you ask Sofia Municipality which regulation it is working under, they won't be able to tell you. There are three or four adopted regulations with different numbers and at different times. Regarding who is not in court, another is being applied at the moment. [[BSP LB.]] Starting to make this initiative and this amendment, I understand Mr. Ivanov that he is doing it wholeheartedly to solve the problems of Sofia Municipality. However, the path, driven by the good intention to the particular text, leads us to an absolutely non-working text. Mrs. Yankova said it, I'll try to explain it, and somewhere maybe I'll repeat it. Mr. Ivanov, you cannot argue that the price will not be increased when it is currently a fee that is cost-oriented. In Sofia Municipality every year the Centre for Urban Mobility proves that the fee is two leva, i.e. the cost-oriented price is two leva. Now that it's a price, there's business. If there's a commercial activity, I'm not a financier, but my colleagues will say there should probably be a profit. When there is a profit, the price cannot be two levs again. It may be two leva and five pennies, but it can't be two leva. Therefore, this delusion must fall. Or so far, the amount that has been collected has been a lie and a fraud, capitalized and all of whom this fee has been collected have been lied to; or from now on, there is no way this can be two levs again. I'm moving on. If it's a price and it's a commercial activity, I'm asking on public municipal property how is commercial activity being carried out? Maybe just through a concession under the concession law? Here the lawyers will say. Maybe that's why the second sentence is written, which in art. 99 says: "It gives the municipality the opportunity not to use the opportunities that this provision gives, but to provide the places under para. 1 for the management and maintenance of That is the truth, that is the purpose of this text. [[Replications from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] The aim is also this activity in the big municipalities the sweetest, the best, the most profitable, to give it a concession. I appeal if we are really concerned about municipal property and money staying in the municipality, to sit down and make such a text as to guarantee collection, parking, the right of citizens to park, but also to guarantee where the funds are going. Because even now, right now, parking money doesn't go to the municipal budget. They go to a 100% municipal company, but of this 100% municipal company go to 2.. 3 private companies. I'll set an example again with Sophia. There are private carriers. If you remember, two years ago Sofia Municipality was threatened to pay 3 million interest rates calculated in just a few months, but this is another topic. Colleagues, I am prepared to work on a law and a norm that will guarantee parking, the right of citizens to park and the right of the municipality to collect its money, but also transparency for their spending. Mr. Ivanov, unfortunately this text does not give this transparency, this right and this opportunity. That is why I have called on you to withdraw it and today to have a new text. This is indeed an urgent text that should not wait for the new Road Traffic Act. That provision must be thought of quickly. On the proposal of Mr. Pavel Hristov concerning 200 BGN. fine for parking on green areas, parks, kindergartens and sidewalks. Indeed, the problem of parking is great, but I ask: shall we impose a fine on municipalities that have not provided parking spaces? I'm asking for an area such as Mladost, an area like Lyulin, an area like...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u76	Varna.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u77	...city of Varna, says the colleague. Where do people park there when you have 10,000 seats, and you have 60,000 cars?! Yeah, we're gonna charge 200 leva. fine. But how many times, every day, 200 leva. Fine? Let's think about this text if we have to. To distinguish the green areas, the playgrounds from the sidewalks. We cannot impose a fine for all of 200 leva, even in small settlements, where people's salary is probably 200 leva. We can't ask them for this fine. This text also needs further work. On Mr. Svetlin Tanchev's proposal for the right turn, I was under the impression that he understood the Commission's application to work on a new Law and was ready to withdraw it. It is also good to pronounce specialists here. I'm ready to talk about it, but I think it's entirely in the context of a new law. So, in a piece, let's decide about the right turn, because in the morning, when we go to work, the traffic lights stop us and we're not past, it's kind of not serious or argumentative. Indeed, this is applied in many countries, but let the specialists discuss it, suggest it, look at it in peace and adopt a Law, so that when we go to a right turn, we know that we will not hit a pedestrian or be hit by a car on our left. And on the latest proposal from Mr. Slavov regarding the clocks at the traffic lights. I think he said himself that in small municipalities this should be done with a decision of the municipal councils. I don't think there's a ban now, there's no obstacle to the city council that has funds and decides they can set watches. There is no need for legislative regulation. The big municipalities, participating in projects, are doing it. I will set an example again with Sofia, where there are such clocks at the nodes. Colleagues, my appeal is the same as Mr. Mihov's: withdraw all the bills, and if we vote them, we reject them. To immediately establish such a working group between the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance to work on a new bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u78	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? First line, the People's Representative Mr. Mihov. Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Svilensky, I wasn't going to speak again, but I was provoked, sitting and listening to the debate. What a joke, where seriously, I feel like I'm in the hall of the Sofia City Council and we're not in the National Assembly. [[Laughter and excitement.]] That's why I'm offering you this. Let us, when we sit down and write a new law, make two for Sofia, one for everyone else. [[Loud laughter and excitement.]] So far in all the debates you've been spinning, sucking and talking about how it was at the intersection to the Russian Church in Sofia, the colleague was talking about the bus lanes in Sofia, talking about parking in Sofia. Let's do one Road Traffic Act in Sofia and one for everyone else! Then it's a clean job! Then this dispute will lead in a slightly narrower circle, for example in the Municipal Council in Sofia, and we will lead the debate about all the other cities of the province, as everyone in Sofia likes to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u80	Thank you. Mr. Ivanov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Svilenski, you may have said that you are Sofia's municipal councillor with a view to arguing your knowledge. I think that this bill should not at all suggest that we are making a bill for a certain locality. We give several possibilities that, in the different hypotheses, when applied, can be applied even in villages, we are not only talking about cities. Dear colleagues, let us be precise in what we read. [[Radio, BSP LB lines.]] And at the moment, honourable colleagues are obviously not getting out of their cars, in Bulgaria there are settlements that are small, these are villages where there are tourist sites, there are separate parking areas, but there the activity is carried out by employees of the respective regional administration. If the municipality is larger, it can be a municipal enterprise or, as the Law on Public Procurement gave us law, art. 12 in house award. Colleagues, driven by good motives for harmonisation of legislation with European norms, have given this right. So I don't see where the drama is. To speculate, Mr. Svilensky, about concessions, since we have repeatedly spoken that this thing will come to pass, you know very well how the bill came to this point, so I asked you to be honest with your colleagues. Don't speculate on it. Yes, the concessions were proposed by the lawyers from the Legal Directorate, not by the Legal Commission, and the referees to the relevant committees. This thing's gonna drop. I say again, we spin, we suck and nobody comes out to say against what it is. Only Mr. Bayraktarov came out and said specifically against what it is! Everyone else is talking total populism! Honourable Members, let us land and really see what this is about, in order to vote on an opportunity, to enable municipalities to work. Thank you. That was my line to you, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u82	Thank you. Mr. Svilensky, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Mihov, I have a sense of humor, of course. There is no way from the national representation maybe 40 or 50 MPs are from Sofia and probably has the impression that laws are being made for the capital. The fact is, that kind of law mostly concerns the big city. God willing, Mr. Ivanov, and in small towns, even in villages so that people have nowhere to park. God willing, let's make this a life in Bulgaria. As it goes, I don't see that direction. About Art. 12 I ask again not to speculate, as this article in the Public Procurement Act was adopted with full unanimity, including by your parliamentary group. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] That's right. So let's not talk about lobbying interests or anything. Again, I say your right. I urge you not to support all four bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u84	Thank you. To speak, the MP from the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front Julian Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u85	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! It is commendable that Mr. Ivanov introduced this amendment into the Law, giving the opportunity to solve some of the problems that concern paid parking not only in Sofia, but in other major cities. Me, and IMRO, because we have been fighting for several years in Sofia, together with the Public Council for Sofia, in support of the owners who live in parts where there is paid parking, in the specific bill we are worried that it will not solve the problems of the citizens themselves, but is made from a point of view to protect the interest of Sofia Municipality or other major municipalities in Bulgaria. I call on between first and second readings, if this text is adopted, of course, to be refined, other texts to be inserted to protect citizens, and not just the interests of Sofia Municipality. I will give concrete examples, even though Mr. Ivanov said not to mention general fairy tales. "Even small examples are important because this bill will not solve them. The example: the owners in this part of Sofia or the big cities where there is paid parking should be given the right to park for free. It can't be because a person has a property in the central part of a city that pays all the time. In each city these people pay the biggest tax buildings, the biggest tax shit and finally we make them pay and the pleasure of being able to park their private car in front of their own apartment. Between the two readings we will make such texts to protect the interests of the owners in places where there is paid parking. Another important thing is because we do not rely on the good wishes of the various municipalities that they will make an exact regulation: in the Law there is an opportunity so that it is made that in certain places, even if they are in the central part of a city, there is no such parking area. I'll give you an example of this. Go and see at the "Pyrogov" on the local canvas is made paid parking. And what happens? There are still no seats, of course, for the people who came here to park in an emergency. Some of the patients who urgently had to go to Pyrogov, parks, enters, accepts him in Pyrogov, operate him, a few days in the hospital, finally leaves and his car is gone. For being sick, he has to pay his respects: acts, parking lots and so on. There are specific things that can be changed in the Law in support of citizens, and not only of designated municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u86	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Anyone for a line? Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My line is also related to Mr. Mihov's proposal. Let us not talk about an amendment between the first and second reading of the bill which has been tabled at first reading. I propose to you once again, and to the colleagues of the Patriotic Front, let us withdraw these bills, let us sit down and do a job like people, not make patches. The Bible says that as an old cloth you make a patch out of a new one, the hole gets even bigger. So I ask you very much to let us withdraw them, not to mention the amendments between first and second readings, to sit down and make together a law that will really respond to state-of-the-art development, to increased road transport, to the problems that are there and not to towel them in pieces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u88	Thank you. Second line? I can't see. Are there any other MPs who would like to speak? Previously on "Mr. Angelov," you don't give a sign. We're heading for the end of the debate. Once again, I do not see anyone who wishes to speak. We're closing the debate. Please, the Quaestors, proceed to the vote, invite the MPs to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u89	I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 554-01-50, submitted by the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs. Vote 134 MPs: for 103, against 24, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Now I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 554-01-45, submitted by Peter Slavov. They voted 137 MPs: 23, Against 28, abstention 86. The bill hasn't been passed. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 554-01-55, submitted by Pavel Hristov, Plamen Manushev and Tsvetomir Mihov. They voted 132 MPs: for 94, against 17, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. We are voting for a bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 554-01-59, submitted by Svetlin Tanchev and a group of MPs. Vote 138 MPs: 16 against 31, abstention 91. The offer is not accepted. Moving to the second point of our weekly program: ANNUAL REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE BULGARIAN ACADEMIA OF LEARNINGS 2013 I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please, the Quaestors, invite an acad. Vodenicharov. He's admitted to the hall. Colleagues, I recall the remaining time of the parliamentary groups, which is not extended: the group of GERB At the moment when we interrupted the speeches, there were two more requests for such requests from Ms. Mariana Todorova and Prof. Mariana Todorova. Stanilov. Mrs. Todorova is ready. We're listening. The Quaestors, invite Mr. Stanilov if he's on the sidelines and keeps his wish to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honourable academic Vodenicharov! The report presented to us last time is solid and respectful and proves to us really that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is a major expert, scientific, strategic and spiritual center. A major scientific centre because after the crisis processes in 2011 the report shows that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences managed to push away from the problems and to show very good results in both scientific development and innovation, and this is shown by the number of publications and the number of innovations and patents it protects. As the main expert center BAS proved that it is gaining more orders from the business, there are a lot of technological transfers and this is a way BAS itself to support its budget and not rely on budget funding. In a strategic aspect, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is holding a discussion on the main goals and sustainable development of Bulgaria. This is a document which can be adopted as the basis for the development of a new national doctrine of the country, as the main objectives and priorities on which Bulgaria can develop are outlined, and is something that no other institution has relied upon to make so complex and complete. Following the traditions of the Bulgarian book company, BAS also defended its spiritual principle and image by holding discussions on the topic of the Bulgarian center of tolerance. Through their attitude towards the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, political forces make policy and follow a certain political line, but do not solve the problems of Bulgarian science, and this is a trend that has been imposed very long in time. I have been following the accounts of BAS since 2008 and they are always similar to one thing........................ to prove that it is carrying out reforms, that the Academy is increasingly financed by project funding and less and less depending on the budget, that 30% of the scientists from BAS make 60% of the developments and 50% of the patents. That is, we see an acquittal regime, and although we have all unanimously supported and welcomed this report, there is a gap between what we show at the declarative level as an attitude towards the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and what is being done as a state policy. That's why the reports are a kind of déjà vu. The same conclusions are observed, but this year the funding for BAS is 0.4%. If today we can justify it by having a budget deficit, we cannot say it in the previous years, as this is a lasting political line of conduct. In Europe, science is financed by an average of 1.8%, in the United States of America, 2.7%, in Japan, 3%, Israel, 6%. So how do we expect something to change, how do we expect to have instead of catching up, ahead of things when we don't finance our science?! How would we have claims to implement reforms in this sector when we do not support it, ignore science permanently, not commit science to solve problems for the state? That's why I think we owe the BAS. If we have a claim to any reforms, first, we must, as a state, pursue an adequate policy, because many of the problems stand for years. Every year the budget of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences shrinks and lacks funds for co-financing of projects. There is no provision for any measures to improve the social status of scientists, no provision is made for measures for young people to stay, so that, instead of having brain drains, there will be circulating brains. There is no strategy that communicates science to make it more prestigious and visible to society. The development of the industry structure that can strengthen the relationship between business and science is not supported. There is still no clarity as to how the Research Fund works so that there will be transparency and no problems in society, and many, many other problems that have stood for years. I see the will in the current minister to conduct an adequate policy. I hope it stays not only on a declarative level, but to be shown by action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Todorova. A line? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u92	Madam President, honourable Members! Mrs. Todorova, you made a controversial statement in which you had findings related to analysis and evaluation of research. The idea that you feel the same research from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences since 2008 does not at least honor you because you clearly have no sense of what research is, what process and what responsibility it has to bring to its end, namely the technological transfers for which you supported your colleagues from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences that increase their share. The desire to assess the science related to the budget gap, which BAS reports every year for 2015 the budget reduction is a fact, leads to the conclusion that, you see, BAS is not doing its job well enough. I would stress that the budget is for 2013. During this period the expenditure for science was significantly higher and this trend had to continue in the coming years in order to have quality research. Thank you for your attention. I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u93	Second line? I won't. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u94	Mrs. Bachvarova, you're setting me up with something I didn't say. I say that structurally the accounts are similar, as the same problems are pointed out. On the contrary, I very much appreciate research and to find proof in my words, refer to the stenograms of both my speech and my speech in the Committee on Science and Education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u95	Colleagues, after consulting the stenogram of 27 March 2015, I will remind you of the MPs who participated in the debates: Mr. Borislav Velikov from the Reformation Bloc and Mr. Peter Petrov from the Patriotic Front. Mr. Iankov had a line to Mr. Petrov. Mr. Stanislav Stanilov and Ms. Mariana Georgieva are enrolled for a speech. Professor Stanilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u96	In the previous years, there was no decision to take account of BAS in the National Assembly. I think the Forty-first National Assembly has made such a decision to report to the National Assembly. Why was this done? In order to focus in some way, to draw the attention of the higher authority in Bulgaria to research, which in all respects except the quality of research is shrinking down. I would remind my colleagues that a year and a half ago, almost two years ago, BAS requested an international audit that went unnoticed. It was not discussed in the National Assembly and remained under the table. The International Audit of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences was carried out by the European Association of Academies of Sciences. BAS proved to be ranked on average in European academies. For example, it was aligned with the Portuguese Academy of Sciences in Lisbon. There were four institutions from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences which were evaluated three times A, which means world level. At my arguments in a dispute with the then finance minister he replied that we have bribed the European Association and that is why it has assessed us in this way. A Bill for the Elimination of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which was suspended, was tabled in the Forty-first National Assembly. This was the third experience in the history of Bulgaria. The first one is at Stamboliiski, the second one at Bogdan Filov, the third one at the Forty-first National Assembly. I recall these facts in order to pay attention to you, however little you are in this House, that we are discussing an extremely important issue. He's got one single point of money! The funding of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is extremely insufficient and it does not coincide with the percentage of content with the funding of any of the academies in the European Union. Most often, because we are most structurally in line with the group "Max Planck" in Germany, I usually take the data from 2011. How this group of institutes was then financed in Germany, which is bigger than our Academy. The state subsidy is 85%. Take a look at the percentage for our Academy - 10% projects and 5% private business. That's literally funding. It's no different now. The idea was introduced in the Bulgarian society that research science should be financed exclusively through projects of European, national and so on, which is also not true because fundamental scientific disciplines, natural fundamental scientific disciplines cannot be financed in this way. They are financed a priori, that is, faith is assumed that a certain scientific study can produce results. The money is given and the result is waiting for it to come out. You can see that from a business point of view, thinking doesn't really fit. But it's been a fact ever since the notion of science exists, of a German high sheet. This is the situation and cannot be changed in any way. In Bulgaria, there can be no high mental matter, such as research work, and it can be financed in the most minimal way. The Bulgarian science works on overheating, which means that a habilitated leading scientist in normal condition consists of two to three directly engaged collaborators. In Bulgaria this is one to one, and sometimes there are no such collaborators, which also forces a large part of Bulgarian scientists to do their own laboratory research, to process themselves on the computer, to do everything themselves and thus their time engages in such things. A Viennese professor told me in a joke the following phrase: Two thirds of the time of the modern European scientist goes to seek out projects, to look for money and only one third of his time goes to research work, which is why the result is this. With us the result is good, comparable to the European, thanks to the exceptional dedication of the remains of Bulgarian science. Our scientific diaspora in Europe and in America is 70% of the scientific frame, which was created in Bulgaria for nearly half a century. For this reason, I call on the National Assembly, the next time we adopt the budget, to note that it is not possible for an associate professor at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to receive a lower salary than a teacher in kindergarten. It's ridiculous, it's disgraceful, it's nowhere! We've been doing this for ten years! Everyone is looking down or talking to each other, and when it comes time to vote on the budget, there is absolutely nothing. The report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, if read carefully and if a person really wants to understand the nature of research, shows that we have lowered our own science and wait for it to self-finance. And because elementary particles on the Women's Market cannot be sold, it cannot be financed What does that look like? Ten years ago, ten years ago, when we were in the Fortyth National Assembly, the Science Research Fund had 100 million. Now in the preparation session, as far as I know, it's 8 million. It doesn't look like anything, but it doesn't make any difference. That is why I think we should vote with applause this, so to speak, Report, but also note that this cannot continue because we will be left without science. Again I will remind a tired perhaps of all my comparison: for 15 years now all children who have received prizes in physics, chemistry, mathematics and all natural sciences and who return with gold and silver medals, none of them my statistics are certain, I have checked it out. None of them have returned and did not stay to work in Bulgaria. Everyone is out there, from which the Bulgarian people only have to produce for foreign economies and sciences such children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u97	A line? I won't. The word for speech is Mrs. Mariana Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u98	Dear Madame Chairman, dearest Acad. Vodenicharov! Dear colleagues, from the DPS, we strongly supported the 2013 Annual Report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in the Commission. Both in the Commission and in the plenary, I find it necessary to strongly emphasise that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences every day in the most modern way In the Commission, I have also pointed out in plenary that, even in time and in the mandate of the forty-third National Assembly, and the government, the cabinet Borisov 2, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences twice stated its responsible position as researchers, as researchers, as scientists with one initiative before the government, a special body that had the courage and responsibility to formulate priorities for the next longer-term development of the state. Secondly, now that the government is functioning, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences has been recognized and deliberately sought with its expertise on the demographic problems of the state. These are just two small examples from the last months for the calling of the mind in Bulgaria, for the calling of the scientific searches in Bulgaria regarding the issues of society and state. Against the background of the Operational Program "Science and education for smart growth" the problems of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences are even hotter and even more challenging to the cabinet, in front of the parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria. The movement for rights and freedoms has repeatedly and very clearly stressed that the state is in debt to science, that it is precisely in the problems of the global crisis and in the problems of the state the resources of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences are, so to speak, first of all, the starting point or the lever of Archimedes, for any problem in the country's governance. This simple funding and even more The report is for 2013 and this is the year in which the Fund was not in session, i.e., on the one hand, scarce budget funding, on the other hand, a blaming session of the Fund. Vodenicharov presided with Stoicism this institute of scientific thought in Bulgaria. We cannot ask for the resources for project funding or daring for project funding from the Academy of Sciences, provided that the state does not provide the scope to enable the applied achievements or achievements of applied science to be a motor for project financing. This alignment of parameters is the responsibility of the state. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences cannot be placed on its knees, the people of scientific demand cannot be respected by the state in the amount of social salary or in the amount of social assistance for their scientific work. I call on all my fellow Members not to be polite in the procedure for adopting the report, but to seek out our responsibility for real financing of this higher activity, which prejudges in the long term, of course, the state's modern governance. Every sector of our economy, every sector of the socio-economic space can be managed forward-lookingly and can indeed be obtained both economic growth and a high standard of living for all Bulgarian citizens if the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is financially secured so that the resources of scientific searches can be the biggest guarantor and true lining for pushing away in a modern management of real economic growth. The biggest investment factor for the Bulgarian lev is the one invested in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Georgieva. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Velizar Enchev for speech
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u100	Madam President, Akkad. Vodenicharov! I think that when we talk about the problems of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, we should first talk about money and then about everything else, including organization. You know that in 2015 the budget that we voted on at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is exactly 77 million. BGN 77 million, to be exact. lv. It was in 2014, and this year the budget is 5 million less than 72 million. lv. Adding to the important fact that with the increase of the minimum wage this year...................................................................................... is the minimum wage in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, in the budget of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences there is a very serious financial hole, which means that somewhere in September this year the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences will fall into financial collapse if we do not update the budget of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Let me say once again: a young scientist at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences begins his work with a payment of 440 BGN.; Professor at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences received the miserable 750 BGN and Professor at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences took place after twenty-twenty-five years of scientific work. Immediately after the Easter vacation, which you have so generously voted on, I will submit a proposal for an update of the budget of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which should overtake the expected unpleasant event in September this year. In any case, at least before summer leave, we need to update the budget of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Do you know why, first of all, we need to update it? There is something very disgraceful that budget 2015 for wiretapping has been allocated over 100 million. BGN, and for the color of the Bulgarian scientific intelligence 30 million less. Only this fact is enough to embarrass everyone who voted for Budget 2015 and correct the error immediately after Easter vacation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u101	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mrs. Snezana Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u102	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! The truth is such that I was not willing to take attitude, but the dialectics of what we are doing today, because it was adopted in the Forty-first National Assembly, and a provocation by independent colleagues on the left have challenged me to take this attitude. I would like to say that I, as a person, have a moral commitment in terms of my personal responsibility to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in view of the fact that in the 40th National Assembly of this Tribune I supported the election of the academic chair of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and now I should have told you that I was not wrong in my choice and that it was correct. Secondly, because I took the liberty of making a commitment to be made together with the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences The strategy for the development of higher education with full consensus and this happened thanks to the attitude of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. It's so irresponsible to talk out of this wine stand and about things that haven't happened and about funding. Yeah, that's right. But you can't say, as the independent colleague says, that he will make a change because he has neither the right to do so nor the opportunity to do so. But I believe that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences should be supported and we will vote in favour of this Report, and I will once again say that we are at least responsible for the fact that this 2013 Report is being adopted so late. But it takes into account a real activity, and I believe that the framework that sets for the work done goes beyond the basic cost of what they have done in one more two years. I think this will be taken into account. I think the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences deserves to be supported for what it does because it has established itself not only as a national scientific and spiritual centre, but as an expert centre that supports the development of the potential of Bulgaria and the government in its vision and strategy for development of Bulgaria. I would like to say that it deserves to be supported because there are young, scientific workers working there and this natural exchange of science and potential with world leaders must and deserves to be supported. The colleagues who said that the salaries at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences are very low and do not correspond to the work and activities he does. My party will do everything possible because the deficit, which is about 5 million, is made so that we really support the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to get them and there the salaries get some natural growth. I will conclude by saying that with my views on national objectives, which are defined in this report, BAS will be the undisputed leader with his people in the strategies and in the future development of Bulgaria. I wish you luck on the Akad. Vladimirov...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u103	Vodenicharov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u104	... of the entire Academy and our presence in this success will be a partnership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u105	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u106	Vodenicharov, I forgot his name.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u107	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. Members of the National Assembly, please enter the Chamber. Colleagues, before I recall that the draft report of the Committee on Education and Science proposed a draft decision. I'll keep that in mind until the MPs get together. The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 3, para. 3 of the Law on the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report on the Activity of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences 2013 However, the draft decision on the report does not contain the title of the decision to have the following name: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the Annual Report on the Activity of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences 2013 I put to the vote the title of the decision and the draft decision itself, as on the report. We are voting at the same time as the title, the basis and the operative part of the decision. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Now we're going to do 30 minutes. rest and continue with the second vote of the fiscal council bill and collective mechanisms at 12:00. I ask the MPs to be precise. There's a second vote coming up. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u108	The hearing is ongoing. Members of the National Assembly, please enter the Chamber. [[Noise and lines.]] Before the interruption, I warned you there was a second reading coming. Let's start with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR FISCAL COUNCIL AND CORRECT MECHANISMS. Importer of the Council of Ministers, adopted in the first vote on 6 March 2015. The report for the second reading of the Committee on Budget and Finance will introduce us to Mrs. Menda Stoyanova. [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] Don't worry, Mrs. Stoyanova. If there's no quorum, we'll check it out and they'll be back together.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Let's try an admission procedure, if you don't mind. Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, and Mrs. Marinella Petrova, Director of the Economic and Financial Policy Directorate, will be allowed to vote in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u110	Please vote on the proposal made. [[Noise and lines.]] The colleagues from BSP Left Bulgaria will be counted by me. [[Heckling]] I invite the rest of the same parliamentary group to vote. Mr. Merdjanov, as part of the group's leadership, I ask for empathy. [[Replication by the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov. Noise and lines.]] Abort the vote. 72 MPs vote: 69 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please enter the hall. We're listening, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u111	The Commission's Report on Budget and Finance on a Fiscal Council Bill and corrective mechanisms No 502-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 February 2015, adopted at the first vote on 6 March 2015. The Fiscal Council and the Responsible Mechanisms. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the Law be amended as follows: The Fiscal Council and automatic mechanisms of inquiry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u112	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the name of the Law. 70 MPs voted: 67, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u113	"Chapter 1" - General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u114	We are voting on the name of Chapter One. Vote 77 MPs: 72, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. On behalf of a parliamentary group, Mr. Mihail Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Fifteen years after the start of liberal health reforms is enough time to see the results. They are catastrophic both in terms of health performance and in terms of effectiveness of the health system. Catastrophic to the health of the Bulgarians. The market element, which turned Bulgarian healthcare into a collection of commercial companies and all doctors in merchants, legally burdened the society with ten times the cost of health, whose quality is moving in the opposite direction of growing revenue. Over a thousand percent is the cost increase for these fifteen years. The idea of a smaller state and more market in healthcare led to the ultimate commercialization of the system, to the refusal of the state of its constitutional obligations to the health of Bulgarian citizens, to the inaccessibility of the poor. Instead of developing and improving the health system in the interest of the sick person, we have achieved one single result: a defeat of public health and a severe commercialisation of the entire system. The lack of any control over healthcare costs leads to annual deficits in the system, which are used as a motive for requiring new payments from patients. Hundreds of thousands of citizens without income are practically deprived of access to health care. When the poor are many, when incomes are low, increasing the business direction of health care is no less than genocide. The unworthy trade in the life and health of the Bulgarian continues. Their only possible contact with the system is emergency medical care, which leads to its overload and its becoming a scapegoat of extremely wrong reform. We liquidated the polyclinics and created doctors' offices in garages and garsoniers in the 21st century. All structural and organizational connections in the system have been destroyed. The right should be happy, Mr. Dimitrov. This led to chaos of health care and often put the patient in a state of impossible choice for his treatment. The state's uncontrolled and unmotivated disclosure of new private hospitals, especially in large cities, except that it has burdened society with unnecessary increased costs has as a consequence the migration of medical professionals to them and the creation of a serious shortage of personnel even in some district cities. Adding to this the leak of medical professionals outside the country we are already in a situation of severe deficit in quantitative and qualitative terms of doctors and nurses. What should the patient pay extra when he is ill after paying regular health contributions? Once we load it to pay 900 leva. for the choice of a doctor and a medical team which gradually from his right became a permanent practice. A second time, because the Health Insurance Fund does not pay all medical devices in hospital treatment, a wide business niche for hospital management has opened up and citizens pay huge amounts of money in severe diseases, and even now the anesthesiologists in certain manipulations. Under the section "Improving living conditions" the use of a private room in hospitals is at a price higher than five star hotel: 330 BGN. There are such price lists per day, BGN 930. for cable television and internet for three days there are such price lists in Bulgaria. Instead of engaging in solving the accumulated problems, you, of the majority, are offering us amendments to the Health Insurance Act, which will increase the chaos in the system with the main motive of increasing the revenues in the medical institutions, by creating the so-called health care package, for which the well-founded payment of health contributions will have to pay in full and separately if it wants not to wait for its treatment, or it will have to tour hospitals across the country to find out where they have not spent their limit in order to be able to treat it. Congratulations to the sick man! This is a decision against the life and health of the Bulgarians. The government decides by order who is to be treated and who is to wait. An imaginary concept of capacity is introduced to justify the payment by the sick Bulgarian. No one other than the doctor made the diagnosis can judge or delay the illness of the sick person. Not a diagnosis code, but the patient's specific condition solves the waiting problem for treatment. That's what every doctor knows and every patient knows. It is not understood only by the ruling majority. The diagnoses written in the regulation are not criteria for forming queues of waiting for treatment, because if they do not have the means, patients may not wait for their treatment on this world. The queues of patients waiting will not increase the revenues of the health system, but only of companies - hospitals that will randomly determine prices as well as now. From this, the cash payments will become not 48% of the total costs, as it is now, but will significantly exceed the public health costs and our insurance system will become even more non-popular and significantly less human than other European systems. Absurd is the proposed 15-year return for the obligation to pay health contributions without taking into account the limitation on public claims. Why don't we take the taxes back 15 years? [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] Yeah, why don't we bring them all back?! How are we going to secure the constitutional rights of health insurance? How will they pay their health contributions permanently unemployed? We warned about these today's health problems in 1995 and 1996. Then in 1999, those of you who are more recently when you brought trade into health care when we strongly opposed the subjugation of the health system only to the principles of the market, were also opposed. In the market jungle of today's healthcare, the safe victim is the sick man. We have wasted a lot of political time proving the untenable thesis that the market will solve all health problems. It's high time we sat down and saw how they really could be solved. The necessary solution is for the discrepancy in the revenues and costs of health care. To increase public spending and reduce private spending. Private spending in Bulgaria is the highest in Europe.. about half of the total costs, under European norms below 20%. The total cost of health is approaching the average European average of 7.6% of gross domestic product, compared to 8.2% for the European Union. The structural and management problems of the system will not solve with the uncontrolled opening of new hospitals, nor with the continuous shifts of directors in public hospitals and with the constant howling for more money. How long will poor Bulgaria continue to cook medical specialists for rich Western Europe? How do we keep the young doctors in the country? This cannot happen until a fair payment mechanism in the public health sector is developed to eliminate the huge differences in pay between the individual specialities in hospitals, some of which are five figures, until we guarantee clear development for doctors and healthcare professionals in Bulgaria. Dear Members of Parliament, Bulgaria badly needs a real discussion on these issues and solutions for the development of health care, and not just another legal amendment, which not only does not solve any problem, but create new and push health care even more into the commercial mermaid. Dear MPs, BSP left Bulgaria insists the Prime Minister to get acquainted with this position and the ruling majority to stop the insane experiment with the life and health of the Bulgarians, not to adopt the bill for amendment and supplement to the Health Insurance Act, because it is simply dangerous to the lives of today's and future generations. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u116	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of GERB Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A great poet and thinker said that the real socialist wants to divide everything equally, even sins. [[Applause from GERB.]] I don't understand, there's actually an explanation. Within the framework of his illness, he shows a lack of any orientation of the auto-, hello-, medical language, colleagues will explain to you what it means, lack of short-term historical memory, but lack of legislative knowledge as well. I would like to remind you that for the last 15 years, two mandates, a year and a half, you have had the opportunity to create these intentions for another form of Bulgarian healthcare. I would like to remind you that just a year ago, the only thing that will be remembered by your Minister Dr. Tanya Andreeva are the little pyrogoves, but they remain in history as well. Furthermore, I would like to stress that the legislative procedure allows the MPs of your party to submit their proposals to the Health Insurance Act by 6:00 tomorrow. If they really give a solution to the problems that you have put out and which I do not deny for the most part, we will definitely support them. Because the stage of findings on the problems in the system has long since passed. Decisions are sought yes, they are not always acceptable by everyone, but we have also sought the preliminary consensus. I firmly believe that the health debate should be carried out over its party use. Because it is extremely easy to make political dividends from this topic. You are an indicative example in this regard. However, the decisions on the sector are neither good nor sustainable. We are really looking for long-term solutions to improve the health performance standards of the nation. Those are our intentions. We're open to all kinds of suggestions. Do not put your guilt on us, we are just ready to take responsibility and look for the good and the necessary solutions, and the debate is coming. I ask you to develop your thoughts, ideas and suggestions. In your circles you also have former Deputy Health Ministers to give these decisions and proposals that could not then pass, because for every decision is also necessary political will, apart from a show intention. Let us leave empty political talk, really look for good solutions for the health of the nation, because both Bulgarian patients and those working in the system deserve it. [[(Applause and cheering from GERB: Bravo! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u118	Article 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u119	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1: Art. 1. This law governs the establishment, operation and composition of the Fiscal Council, as well as the establishment and implementation of the automatic corrective mechanisms under art. 23, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u120	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 1 in its version of the Commission report. Vote 87 MPs: 76, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u121	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2: Art. 2. This law aims to create conditions for compliance with the fiscal rules laid down in the Public Finance Act with a view to maintaining sustainable public finances.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u122	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 2 in the version of the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u123	Chapter 2, Section I, Art. 3, 4 and 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Two, Section I, Articles 3, 4 and 5 and the name of Section II.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u124	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter Two, Section I, art. 3, 4 and 5 and the name of Section II. Vote 85 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u125	Article 6. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 6: Art. 6. (1) The Council shall: 1. monitor compliance with the numerical fiscal rules laid down in the Public Finance Act, which relate to the sector of government and the consolidated fiscal programme; 2. draw up a reasoned opinion and recommendations on the spring and autumn macroeconomic forecasts of the Minister of Finance within 10 days of their publication on the website of the Ministry of Finance; 3. draw up a reasoned opinion and recommendations on the state budget bill, under the Bills for the budget of the State Social Security and the budget of the The National Health Insurance Fund, under the Bills for their amendment and addition to the projects of medium-term budget forecast, as well as other strategic documents The Council of Ministers relevant to the compliance of numbers fiscal rules under point (c) 1 in the framework of the coordination procedure and the submission of draft measures to be considered at a meeting of the Council of Ministers; 4. draw up a reasoned opinion on the accounts for the implementation of the state budget, on the budgets of the state social security and other social security funds administered by the National Insurance Institute and on the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund within the framework of the procedure for coordination and submission of draft acts the examination of a meeting of the Council of Ministers; 5. draw up and make available to the President of the National Assembly Assembly reasoned opinion and recommendations on the approved by The Council of Ministers has draft laws and documents under this heading. 3 and the accounts t uc 4 no later than 14 days after their entry into the National Assembly a meeting; 6. in the event of a significant deviation of macroeconomic forecasts from reporting data within a period of at least four consecutive years recommended that the The Minister for Finance shall take measures to correct the the deviation; 7. monitor the application of automatic corrective mechanisms under art. 23, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act, such as draw up a reasoned opinion on: (a) the availability of a significant deviation from the medium-term budgetary objective for the structural deficit or its step achieving and the need to activate automatics This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. (b) the corrective plan coordination and submission of draft measures to examine meeting of the Council of Ministers and its implementation; 8. draw up a reasoned opinion on the presence and the termination of exceptional circumstances pursuant to art. 24 of The Public Finance Act informs the Minister of finance; 9. draw up reasoned opinions on the risks to the sustainability of public finances and inform the Minister of Finance and other relevant institutions. (2) The reasoned opinions and recommendations of the Council shall not be binding. Where the Council of Ministers does not accept those relevant to it, it shall be reasoned in writing. Motives are published on the websites of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance. (3) The reasoned opinions and recommendations of the Council shall be published on its website. (4) The President and the members of the Council shall implement its activities under this law on the basis of its own expertise. Them. have the right to request and receive information from the state authorities which are obliged to provide it to them, subject to compliance with the the legislation in force. (5) The President and the members of the Council shall not request or accept instructions from the Council of Ministers or from other bodies and institutions. (6) The Council shall develop and adopt a methodology containing objective criteria for the purposes of its opinions and recommendations on official macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts, as well as criteria for establishing a significant deviation of indicators in macroeconomic forecasts from reporting data. The methodology shall be published on the Council's website.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u126	Statements under art. Six? I won't. Vote art. 6 in the version of the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 79, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u127	Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u128	We vote Section III. Vote 79 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u129	Article 7. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 7. Art. 7. (1) The Council shall consist of five members, including a President, who shall be elected by the National Assembly following a public procedure. (2) The staff of the members of the Council shall be 6 years. One person shall not be elected as a member of the Council for more than two consecutive terms. (3) New members of the Council shall be elected by the National Assembly not earlier than three months and not later than one month before their term of office expires. The members of the Council shall continue to perform their duties after the term of office has expired until the election of the new members. (4) The term of office of a member of the Council shall be terminated in advance: 1. at his request; 2. in case of permanent inability to carry out his duties for more than 6 months; 3. in the event of death; 4. when determining that the person does not meet the requirements of art. 8, para. 1 or in the event of incompatibility under art. 8, para. 2 and 4; 5. in the event of non-participation without due cause in two consecutive meetings of the Council; 6. upon the entry into force of an act establishing a conflict of interest under the Law on Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest. (5) In the event of the circumstances under para. 4 The National Assembly shall be informed of the making of a new choice. (6) In the cases under para. 4 t. 1, 3 and 6 the grounds shall be announced by the President of the National Assembly before the National Assembly. (7) Upon termination of the term of office of a member of the Council, the National Assembly shall elect another person in his place for the remainder of the term of office.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u130	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 7. 90 MPs voted: 88, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u131	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 8. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section IV.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u132	Vote art. 8 and the name of Section IV. Vote 82 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u133	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 9. Art. 9. The meetings of the Council shall be convened by its President on his own initiative or at the initiative of each of its members.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u134	There are no speeches. Vote art. 9. Vote 79 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u135	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u136	We vote. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u137	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 11: Art. 11. (1) In carrying out its activities, the Council shall adopt decisions. (2) Decisions to adopt reasoned opinions and/or recommendations shall be published on the Council's website within 7 days of their adoption.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u138	There are no speeches. Vote art. 11. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u139	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u140	Vote art. 12. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u141	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 13: Art. 13. (1) The Council may receive an assessment of its activities by such independent fiscal surveillance authorities in other countries every three years. (2) The assessment under para. 1 shall be published on the Council's website and sent to the President of the National Assembly for information.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u142	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 13. Vote 78 MPs: 75, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u143	The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for Articles 14, 15, 16 and the name of Chapter Three.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u144	We vote. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u145	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 17: Art. 17. (1) Automatic corrective mechanisms under art. 23, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act covers the preparation, adoption and implementation of a corrective plan. (2) The mechanisms under para. 1 aim at correcting a significant deviation from the medium-term budgetary objective for the structural deficit or the step towards achieving it under Council Regulation (EC) No 1466/97 of 7 July 1997 on strengthening the supervision of the budgetary situation and of the supervision and coordination of economic policies, hereinafter referred to as the " 1466/97'.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u146	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 17. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u147	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 18: Art. 18. The existence of a significant deviation from the medium-term budgetary objective for the structural deficit or the step towards achieving it shall be established by one or more bodies as follows: 1. the European Commission pursuant to Regulation 1466/97; 2. the Minister of Finance in the framework of the budget process; 3. Council according to art. 6, para. 1, t. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u148	Statements? I won't. We vote. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u149	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 19: Art. 19. (1) In case of significant deviation from the medium-term budgetary objective or from the step towards its achievement, the Minister of Finance shall, within two months from the establishment of the deviation, draw up and submit a corrective plan for approval by the Council of Ministers. (2) In the event that the corrective plan provides for measures relating to the powers of the National Assembly, the Council of Ministers shall submit the plan for adoption to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u150	What is the difference between the text of the importer and the version of the Commission?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u151	You must see very carefully, Madam President, that there is no difference in a comma.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u152	I draw attention to the reports that are simply not serious! Especially in this text, I see no difference but commas. We're playing reading. I'm asking for a statement. There aren't any. Vote art. 19 in the version of the Commission, whatever that means, this is the text of the importer. Vote 82 MPs: 81 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u153	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 20: Art. 20. The corrective plan under art. 19 includes: 1. the adjustment period, which may be up to two consecutive budgetary years after the year in which a significant deviation has been identified; 2. the average annual improvement of the structural balance at least 0.5 percent of gross domestic product over the correction period; 3. the revenue and expenditure corrective measures described in detail by type, size and quantitative assessment of their impact on the sub-sectors of the sector.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u154	Here the difference from the text of the importer is one membership in point. 3....................................................................................... Statements? I won't. Vote art. 20. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u155	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u156	We vote. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u157	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 22: Art. 22. The corrective plan takes into account the recommendations for overcoming the significant deviation from the medium-term budgetary objective or the step towards achieving it addressed to Bulgaria under Regulation 1466/97.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u158	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 22. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u159	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 23: Art. 23. (1) The implementation of the corrective plan may be suspended in the event of exceptional circumstances within the meaning of art. 24, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act without putting the sustainability of public finances at risk in the medium term. (2) Upon termination of the circumstances under para. 1 The Minister of Finance shall, if necessary, submit a revised corrective plan for approval by the Council of Ministers. In cases referred to in art. 19th para. 2 The Council of Ministers shall submit the revised corrective plan for adoption to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u160	Here the difference from the importer is only "In cases under art. 19th para. 2 The Council of Ministers shall submit to the National Assembly. Because of an inverted speech, the National Assembly will go at the end of the sentence. Are there any speeches? I won't. Vote art. 23. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u161	"Additional provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u162	We vote. Vote 80 MPs: 76, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u163	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... This law introduces the requirements of Council Directive 2011/85/EU of 8 November 2011 on requirements for the budgetary frameworks of the Member States (OJ L 306/41 of 23 November 2011.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u164	Statements? I won't. We vote § 1. Vote 78 MPs: for 77, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u165	"Concluding provision" and § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision and for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u166	We vote. Vote 81 MPs: for 80, against none, abstention 1. The proposal has been adopted, and with this the Law at second reading. Moving on to the next point: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS. Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. We're listening, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I suggest that we allow Krasimira Stoyanova, Director of the Legal Directorate, and Kalina Dimitrova from the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u168	We vote, fellow Members. Vote 74 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, invite the guests. Mr. Karadjov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u169	The Law on Electronic Communications is amended and supplemented by the Law on Electronic Communications. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u170	We vote. Cancel the vote. Colleagues, there is no quorum. Please stop the movement in the hall. I'm doing a second try, and we're moving on to a roll call. The check will be the first last, the second.. 239. I put the name of the Law to the vote. Vote 79 MPs: 77, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u171	Proposal from the MPs Ivan Valkov, Tsvetomir Mihov, Pavel Hristov and Stanislav Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle and proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point It's six. Number of subscribers of the undertaking differentiated according to the services offered by the undertaking, based on the data from the annual activity report provided by the undertaking in connection with art. 38, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u172	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1 in its version of the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 80, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u173	Proposal from the MPs Ivan Valkov, Tsvetomir Mihov, Pavel Hristov and Stanislav Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 74 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." The text so far becomes paragraph 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: The entity shall publish the information referred to in Article 2. 33, para. 2, p. 6 on your website.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u174	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 2 on the Commission report. They voted 83 MPs: 76, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u175	The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 75, para. 1
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u176	Statements? I won't. We vote § 3. Vote 87 MPs: 81, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u177	The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 77, para. 2 sentence 2 second words................................................................................................ The Commission
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u178	We vote. Vote 85 MPs: 80, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u179	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u180	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 5 on the Commission report. Vote 88 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u181	Proposal from the National Representative Kamen Kostadinov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Ivan Valkov, Tsvetomir Mihov, Pavel Hristov and Stanislav Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 257 the following amendments and additions are 1. In para. 1 words in the event of a technical possibility shall be deleted and a sentence shall be created second: A exclusion from the obligation referred to in the first sentence may be admitted by the Commission only in the absence of a technical possibility for a period of no more than three months. 2. A new para is being created. 8. The public telephone service providers may refuse or limit the provision of interconnection in cases where an undertaking does not provide the function of identification of the caller's line for calls coming from its network. The possibility by sentence first shall not apply only if the Commission has granted an exception in the absence of technical possibility within the period under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u182	Statements? Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u183	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, as one of the contributors to the proposals, I am now making a proposal for a split vote on both points. 1 et c. 2, since in respect of t. 1 We have no problem because we have all voted unanimously, but in terms of t. 2 There were different opinions and concerns that we would violate two European directives on access and universal service. Therefore, I propose that they be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u184	I shall put to the vote the proposed procedural proposal for a separate vote on Paragraph 6 s 1 and 2 to be put to the vote separately. Please vote. 89 MPs vote: 82, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. I now put to the vote § 6, t. 1 s for amendment and supplement of art. 257, para. 1 of the Law. Please vote. 90 MPs voted: 79, none, abstention 11. The offer is accepted. Now we vote § 6 t. 2 for the creation of a new para. 8. That's the troublesome paragraph. Please vote. Vote 95 MPs: 10, against 8, abstention 77. The offer is not accepted. However, the re-editment of § 6 will be required here, as it remains with only one point. Mr. Karadjov, offer the editorial.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u185	I propose the following text: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 257, para. 1 words in the event of a technical possibility shall be deleted and a sentence shall be created in the second sentence: an exclusion from the obligation referred to in the first sentence may be accepted by the Commission only in the absence of a technical possibility for a period of not more than three months.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u186	Colleagues, you understand why this clarification is necessary because there is only one point left. Please vote. Vote 92 MPs: 85, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u187	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 2, which shall become § 7, and shall propose the following version: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 331, para. 3, 4, 5, 7 and 8 words entered into force
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u188	Statements? I won't. We're voting on a paragraph... [[National Representative Desislav Chukolov wants the floor for procedure.]] You want a procedure before the vote, is that it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u189	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u190	Okay. Here you go, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u191	Madam President, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ataka Party, I would like you to do a roll call check on the quorum in this House.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u192	Colleagues, name check: Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - absent Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - absent Borislav Mihailov Borisov - here Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - absent Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - absent Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - here Valentin Stefanov Vasilev - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - here Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - absent Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Vyara Mikhailova Tzerovska - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - absent Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Darin Ivanov Dimitrov - absent Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov - here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - absent Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - absent Dimitar Hristov Zhelev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Zdravko Dimitrov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - absent Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Andonov Kotev - absent Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Dobreva Marinova - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Krasimira Peneva Anastasova - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - here Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - absent Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Maya Bozhidarova Manolova - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - absent Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - absent Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - absent Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - absent Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - here Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - absent Stefan Georgiev Kenov - here Stefan Ivanov Dedev - absent Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - here Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - here Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - here Filip Stefanov Popov - here Hamid Barry Hamid - here Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - here Hüseyin Hassan Hafuzov - here Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - absent Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - here Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - here Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yavor Iliev Haytov - here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - here Ianko Alexandrov Jankov - here There is a quorum. Only the Parliamentary Group of "Attacka" is absent from the Chamber. We continue with the vote on § 7, reported before the requested roll call check by the political party group "Attack." We vote § 7. Vote 84 MPs: for 80, against none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. List of additional members of parliament: Antony Trenchev, Borislav Velikov, Valentin Pavlov, Aidoan Ali, Valentin Kasabov, Jayhan Ibryamov, Georgi Bojinov, Alexander Metodiev, Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Daniela Daritkova, Boyka Marinska, Kiril Kotev, Dora Yankova, Delyan Dobrev, Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u193	The Commission shall support the importer's texts for paragraphs 3, 4 and 5, which shall become 8, 9 and 10 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u194	I put to the vote the number 8, 9 and 10 paragraphs on the Commission report. 88 MPs voted: 78, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u195	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the compartment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u196	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 11. You'll have suggestions? Okay. Statements on the proposal of the Additional provision? The Commission supports the name. I don't see anyone who wants to. I vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer on the name of the division. They voted 102 MPs: 93, none, abstentioned 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u197	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 11, specifying that a technical error has been made. In the proposals from the text which is submitted, it is So I'm going to read the text one more time: ........................................................... Paragraph 9 concerning art. 334b contains measures for the implementation of EU and Council Regulation (EU) No 531/2012 of 13 June 2012 on roaming in public and mobile communications networks within the Union (OJ L 172/10 of 30 June 2012.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u198	Colleagues, I am voting on the technical amendment We vote on the amendment. Vote 95 MPs: 88, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. I now vote on the full version of § 6 by importer, which becomes § 11 in the Commission report, together with the technical amendment we have just adopted. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 97 MPs: 89, none, abstention 8. The proposal is accepted, and with this, the bill at second reading. Our next points in the weekly programme are provided respectively as p. 1 and 2 for Thursday. So we go to point seven: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE GARNIZON REPRESENTATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, PRESENTED BY THE MINISTERATION OF THE TEMPORARY, AND ON THE MAINTENANCE OF THE GREENED ARGUED FORCES IN EUROPAN ABOUT THE BASIC SUBMISSION OF A MODUL OF DISCLOSURE SYSTEM, THE SECOND NATO BATALION. From the Defense Committee... Where's Mr. Mihov? [[Heckling]] I have a report, colleagues. During this time, we will hear the report from the Committee on Foreign Policy. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u199	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! ? Report As regards the Draft Law on the ratification of the Convention on the Maintenance of a garrison between the Republic of Bulgaria, presented by the Ministry of Defence, and the Supreme Chief Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe on the Base Maintenance of the CIS Module with capacity to deploy, NATO Second Contact Battalion, No 502-02-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 March 2015. In June 2009, the NATO Military Committee and subsequently the North Atlantic Council decided to establish a national mobile communication module in the Republic of Bulgaria in the composition of a second NATO communications battalion located in Italy. The construction of the necessary infrastructure for this module is a project under the NATO Security Investment Programme. By decision of the Council of Ministers of 29 August, 2012 its implementation on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria has been approved. The personnel of the national CIS module on our territory consists of two officers and 55 sergeants and soldiers who are provided by the host country. CIS modules are part of NATO's command structure, with the main maintenance and security costs being the subject of total funding from the Alliance. The level of support to be provided by the host countries for each specific element shall be defined by a Maintenance Agreement (Garison Support Arrangement) between the High Chief Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe and the respective Host Party on the basis of the established Standards and Maintenance Policy of the Host Party and the Basic Concept of Maintenance. National modules can be used for national purposes, as long as NATO obligations are not violated. The agreement was signed by the Bulgarian side on 16 July 2014 on the basis of the decision of the Council of Ministers on the issue. 13 of Protocol No 37 of the meeting of 18 September 2013. It lays down the conditions for the establishment, operation and provision of the communication module in the territory of the country, as well as the relations between the host country and NATO in the following areas: infrastructure, financing, maintenance, personnel, etc. The project was drawn up on the basis of a type-design agreement applied to all NATO members concerned. In the process of co-ordination of the draft agreement under the order of art. 5 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria was made a proposal for its ratification because of the establishment of financial obligations for the state as a host country. This condition lays down also in c. 3 of the minutes' decision of the Council of Ministers, cited above. The financial means to ensure national commitments to implement the Agreement will be provided by the budget of the Ministry of Defence. At a regular meeting held on 25 March 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers. After hearing the reasons for the bill, a discussion and a vote was held, as a result of which, with 12 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposed to the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to adopt the draft Law on the Agreement on the Maintenance of a garrison between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Ministry of Defence and the Supreme Chief Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe on the Basic Support of the Module of the CIS with Return Capabilities, the Second NATO Contact Battalion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u200	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. We will now hear the committee's report. Mr. Mihov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u201	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House. I'll bring it down to you: ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Garrison Maintenance Agreement (GSA) between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Ministry of Defence, and the High Chief Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe (SHAPE) on the Basic Maintenance of the CIS Module with Return Capabilities (DCM), the 2nd NATO Contact Battalion (2NSB), signed on 16 July 2014 and 28 August 2014 in Mons, Belgium, No 502-02-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 March 2015. At a regular meeting held on 19 March 2015, the Defence Committee discussed the Draft for the ratification of the Garrison Maintenance Agreement (GSA) between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Ministry of Defence, and the Supreme High Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe (SHAPE) on the Basic Maintenance of the CIS Module with Revival Capabilities (DCM), the 2nd NATO Contact Battalion (2NSB), signed on 16 July. On 28 August 2014, the Council of Ministers submitted No 502-02-8 to Mons, Belgium on 13 March 2015. 18 Members of Parliament participated in the Commission meeting. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Defence Orhan Ismailov and the head of the political cabinet of the Ministry of Defence Iliya Nalbantov. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Defence Orhan Ismailov. The draft law on the ratification of the Garrison Maintenance Agreement (GSA) between the Republic of Bulgaria and SHAPE on basic maintenance of the CIS module with resolution capabilities (DCM) to the 2nd NATO Contact Battalion (2NSB) was submitted to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria by Decision No 155/12/March 2015 of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. On 16 July, respectively, on 28 August 2014, in Mons, Belgium, an Agreement on the maintenance of garrison (GSA) between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Ministry of Defence, and the Supreme High Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe (SHAPE) on the Basic Maintenance of the CIS Module with Revival Capabilities (DCM) as part of the 2nd NATO Contact Battalion (2NSB) was signed. The basis for the signing of the Agreement is a decision of the NATO Military Committee and subsequently of the North Atlantic Council for the formation of a national mobile communication module (DCM) in the Republic of Bulgaria as part of the composition of the 2nd NATO communication battalion located in Italy. By decision of the Council of Ministers of 29 August 2012, its implementation on the territory of Bulgaria was approved. The staff of the national CIS module on our territory consists of two officers and 55 sergeants and soldiers who are provided by Bulgaria. National modules can be used for national purposes, as long as NATO obligations are not violated. Staff maintenance is a national responsibility. The agreement between Bulgaria and the NATO Joint Command regulates all issues on the core maintenance of the module. Building the infrastructure of the module is a project under NATO's security investment programme. Maintenance costs are shared between NATO and the Ministry of Defence. The agreement is subject to ratification by the National Assembly due to the fact that it is agreed in accordance with the order of art. 5 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria and financial obligations for the state as a host country are established. In the discussion of the bill took part the MPs Yanko Yankov, Hristo Gazhev and Ilian Todorov. After hearing the reasons and discussing the bill, 18 MPs took part in the vote. With 17 votes in favour and 1 against, the Defence Committee adopted the following: DECISION He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the ratification of the Garrison Maintenance Agreement (GSA) between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Ministry of Defence, and the Supreme High Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe (SHAPE) on the Basic Support of the Centre for Revival Capabilities (DCM), the 2nd NATO Contact Battalion (2NSB), signed on 16 July 2014 and 28 August 2014 in Mons, Belgium, No 502-02-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 March 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u202	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. The debate is open. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to participate in it to give a sign. Here you go, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u203	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today on paper Bulgaria is a democratic state. You're all pretending to have given birth to democracy. I ask you, then, from this tribune: why didn't you ask the Bulgarian people, why didn't you first make a referendum on whether he wants to be in NATO? Isn't that the most democratic way? Why didn't you Democrats ask the Bulgarian people right now do they want NATO bases in Bulgaria, in particular, the one we're talking about in Gorna Malina? You didn't ask him! Ladies and gentlemen, what you are doing is not democracy, it is a higher form of plutocracy. What are you offering us today? To find a NATO CIS module in Gorna Malina, where NATO is to command, manage, monitor and control the activities of its armed forces. You are offering us a CIS module in Bulgaria, where NATO can control and coordinate the newly created special rapid response forces of the Alliance. You're offering us 30 grand from our territory. NATO Special Forces and 5,000. rapid response soldiers targeting the Russian Federation. Why didn't you explain why this NATO base, this CIS module in Bulgaria, is being built throughout this period? None of you have admirals, colonels, generals with you, GERB, you didn't come out to tell us why this was done. [[GERB lines.]] That is, you are offering us Bulgaria to become a platform for military attacks against third countries. You are offering us to involve Bulgaria in war with Russia, by lying that as members of NATO we are obliged to build a similar CIS module on our territory. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I ask you very much that one of you draw up the NATO treaty, come out on this platform and show the entire Bulgarian society, to all of us a member of the Treaty, which obliges us to build a similar NATO base. Otherwise, I ask you to stop this madness because we have warned you many times about bringing Bulgaria into war and will suffer all of us. Get out with the NATO treaty and show us where we're committed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u204	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u205	Madam President, colleagues! Last week we learned that parliament will vote on the extension of the contract for US bases in Bulgaria, which expires next year, but in a few days the legal notice should be given, that is to say the parliament will vote on a new 10-year period for US bases in Bulgaria. Today we understand that we will have a NATO base in Bulgaria. [[GERB lines.]] I believe that the issue is extremely serious and the Bulgarian people need to know who is who in this Parliament and who voted how. That is why I am making a concrete proposal by roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u206	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. When we get to the closure of the debate and move to the vote, I will put this motion to a vote, as the rules require me to do so. Any other MPs? Come in for a statement, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u207	One ideologist of lies, Madam President, has said that in order to catch dikish there must be little truth in it, the other is a mockery with the stands and the composition of the National Assembly. There's no truth in what's being exposed here, there's no truth. First, a retrospective of what we are voting on at the moment, the process went to the government before the first GERB government, in May-June 2009. Neither there were North African processes nor there were Middle East processes, nor there were Ukrainian conflicts and so on. Everything's going regular. We, as a country that has voluntarily and unanimously joined the North Atlantic Alliance, are obliged to participate in the processes of building this Alliance's capabilities. For those who are not in the topic and are far from the truth about Bulgaria's national security, I am obliged to stress that we are very little involved in these processes. Not only Bulgaria, the former social countries, those who are now leading them from Central and Eastern Europe, because the Alliance does not currently have enough developed capabilities to protect this part of its territory. The process now goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. It's just that the process continues with an information system which is also required to be developed in this part of the Alliance's territory. But I want to go back a little bit further, because there are blatant untruths here. Personally, as an officer of the Bulgarian Army from 1981 to 1990, I walked with echelons with Bulgarian missile equipment, with three complexes of the Bulgarians, with three complexes of the Bulgarians, Krug and Osa, passing through the territory of two countries and firing into the third then Soviet Union, now Kazakhstan. We've walked with our own weapons from a Kalashnikov machine gun and pistols for officers to missiles, anti-missile complexes, our launchers and all the rest of the equipment of entire regiments or brigades we've fired. We have neither endangered Romania's territorial integrity, Ukraine's, Moldova's, or all the countries we have been through back then. We have been part of the Warsaw Treaty and have fulfilled our obligations as part of the Warsaw Treaty. I would like to tell you that in 1996-1998, as an officer of the Bulgarian Army, personally I, with officers, then our partners in partnership for peace, i.e. this is the broad part of NATO, have looked for days and months of future polygons and airports, and we have stopped at two of Coren's and Novo Selo's, then a new village was chosen as the most suitable for carrying out a joint preparation, of which Bulgaria has exceptional benefits, and financial but not only financial. There is no former Defence Minister here to tell you that for just last year, our financial advantage of all this work is 40 million. The dollar. We have the exclusive privilege of preparing with the best soldiers in the world. [[Replys from "Attacka."]] Not against someone, but to protect our interests and our territorial integrity. And those paid by the Russians don't get up and talk here nonsense about jeopardizing our integrity. [[Applause from GERB.]] On the contrary, in this way we will ensure that if the NATO treaty someone has not read it, it is not a big 15 members, let him take a look at it and find out what it is, not to scare people here and talk nonsense. We are obliged to continue to develop our defence capabilities in NATO's composition, and so it will be, regardless of the chatter of my colleagues. [[Replys from "Attacka". Applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u208	There are more appropriate verbs, Mr. Toshev. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Chukolov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u209	Madam President, honourable Members! I suggest that we extend the time for the National Assembly's work to the vote on this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u210	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 83 MPs: 18, against 52, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. Do other MPs wish to participate? Procedure Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u211	Madam President, I would like to draw attention to the fact that such a very important topic is being discussed for absolutely all Bulgarian citizens. I ask you to intervene when your fellow partymates, but in this case as Chairman of the Assembly, in a similar manner that the speaker has just shown disrespectful, and with insulting qualifications, babbling has said such things. Mr. Toshev, have respect because the subject is much higher than you and your self-esteem and deserves a responsible attitude. Don't in such a thoughtless and mentoring way to explain, because you were military and specialist. This is not about military terminology, technology and knowledge, but about a political solution. That your party, even before GERB, had an agreement with NATO, does not change anything. However, the situation has changed. We have new circumstances, so please take responsibility, Madam President, make notes in such cases, because the subject is important. I'm sorry you didn't vote for an extension of time, but you seem to want to overwhelm this issue. But that's not how it's gonna work.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u212	Dear Mr. Siderov, I hope you've heard that I reacted to the word Mr. Toshev used. This is also recorded in the transcript. I join your call for all Members of Parliament to measure our words and plead from this tribune in a way that does not affect each other, because in the end this comes from our speeches. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u213	Dear colleagues, as a member of the Defence Committee, I supported this proposal, along with the other colleague from the Patriotic Front Mr. Mihov, because on the subject of the presence of parts of NATO and other parts of the Union countries in Bulgaria, one has developed, I would say, rather foolish speculation and cheap propaganda. I apologize to the people who spoke before me. I have served 2 years and 17 days in the Bulgarian Army. The Chairman of the Defence Committee is a Bulgarian general, head of the Headquarters of the Bulgarian Army. There are Bulgarian generals, admirals, people, experienced military. A lot of people who didn't go to the soldiers, please. [[Applause from GERB and PF]] Do not teach me what is important for the national security of Bulgaria! He is right, Mr. Siderov, when he said that after the signing of the NATO treaty there were new circumstances. True, there are new circumstances, but they are not in favor of Bulgaria. The new circumstances threaten the security of Bulgaria. The main problem is that after the signing of the Treaty of Accession of Bulgaria to NATO, a neighbouring country develops a policy of interference in the domestic affairs of Bulgaria, develops a policy in which Bulgaria is on the periphery directly of its interests, talking about the restoration of the Ottoman Empire. 1000 km from Bulgaria there is a military conflict, new in character and global in scale. This is radical Islamism under the flag of the Islamic State (Islamic State), which exports the revolution outside the territory of Levanta, Iraq and Syria. These are the new circumstances. They require Bulgaria to be ready for war. Unfortunately, many times I have said this, and it is not my finding, but a finding of all colleagues who are familiar with the state of the Bulgarian Army that the Bulgarian Army has its very serious problems. The presence of similar structures on the territory of Bulgaria, such as this centre, in no way harm national security but, on the contrary, strengthen it. They really help to develop the defense capacity of the Bulgarian Army, which, unfortunately, at the moment, I find it with great bitterness, is unable to fulfil its fundamental constitutional obligation, namely the protection of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Bulgaria. So when we talk about it, when we talk about it to society, and it's dangerous, some foreign soldiers will come here to occupy us, some foreign soldiers will come to attack Russia. I apologize very much, a Bulgarian president had said it years ago: I love Russia, but I love Bulgaria more. First of all, I care about the security, the national security of Bulgaria and then my feelings for Russia, America, Germany and so on. In this particular case, when we talk about the defense ability of the Bulgarian Army, we should be worried about the condition of the Bulgarian Army, not about worrying about what they think in Moscow, Kiev or anywhere else in the world. This is the main argument that I voted for. And now I will vote again for......................... and I will still vote for............................... that this will be used for speculation to develop a propaganda.... here are these war lovers, those who are preparing war with Russia and so on. There's no such thing! As you can see, no one is preparing war with Russia, much less Bulgaria is preparing for this thing. very please, when it comes to Bulgaria's national security, on many other topics we can speculate, on many other topics we can make cheap PR, demagogize, but when it comes to the security of the state, we should be really national responsible. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB and PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u214	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. - What's the line? Mr. Volen Siderov wants a statement which will most likely happen tomorrow. Let's finish the line-and-bottom procedure. Mr. Korman Ismailov, a line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u215	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My line is not in the spirit of Mr. Karakachanov's speech, but only a small part of his speech. The sentence in which he says about people who didn't go to the barracks, I just want to remind you that among the MPs there are also ladies who couldn't have gone to the barracks. But all MPs have the right to speak on this subject because we are MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u216	Second line, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u217	Madam President, colleagues! My line is to Mr. Karakachanov. Mr. Karakachanov, you may have been in the barracks, but either you don't understand geopolitics, or you pretend you don't understand. Do not try to deceive us that all this is being done because of the Islamic State in the Middle East. What's going on with this so-called NATO military base... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u218	This isn't a military base.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u219	...it's not because of the Islamic State, which is indeed a real threat, but because of the events in Ukraine. I quote you, Mr. Karakachanov, since you have been absent from Bulgaria these days, American generals during their hearing in the Senate of the United States of America, who have admitted that the removal of bases, at posts in Eastern Europe is for one purpose only............................ and supporting Russia and Ukraine. It is no accident that a senior US military commander in Europe said that this chain of bases from Latvia, the Baltic to the Balkans is only for one purpose -- not the Middle East, as you claim and are trying to instill us and thus bring down your historical responsibility -- to you and to the Patriotic Front -- that you will support this thing, but because of Ukraine and for, I repeat, the taming of the Russian bear. Each of you, who voted this and gave his vote for the participation of Bulgaria in a possible military conflict. Once again, I repeat my proposal for a roll call vote. The Bulgarian people must know what each of us thinks and how he will raise his hand. Let the Bulgarian people also know the voters of the Patriotic Front that the Patriotic Front supports foreign bases in Bulgaria. [[Field lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u220	Mr. Enchev, I'm going to give you a chance. But since Mr. Enchev wants the same thing twice, it is good before he makes procedural proposals to read the Rules. Article 64 says that a proposal for a vote on specific points, including by name, shall be made by one tenth of all Members of the Parliament or by one Parliamentary Group. Such an opportunity cannot be made and such a request can be accepted, Mr. Enchev, as you are not participating and are not a member of a parliamentary group, but there are no ten MPs behind and around you who have requested this in order to allow a vote in plenary. Please don't do this the third time! I have spared you this lesson, which I am doing to you right now, but you are persistently continuing to maintain a request that is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u221	Third line, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u222	Madam President, Madam President! Dear Mr. Karakachanov, unfortunately, I may not have your experience in the military, and I also have no experience as a State Security agent, but what can I say? I want to fix you. This isn't about foreign soldiers. From the very beginning of the paperwork it is said that it is about two Bulgarian officers and fifty-five Bulgarian sergeants and soldiers. Here, in the Agreement in question, it is not about the coming of any foreign forces. Ratification is only from a point of view that Bulgaria can benefit from the financial assistance of NATO and build a Bulgarian centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u223	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u224	Mr. Gajev really has no experience, and not only does he have no experience, but he doesn't listen carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u225	I was making a line for Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u226	But I did the speech, not Mr. Enchev. On the subject, it is indeed very clear in the Agreement what it is about. It's not a foreign base, it's 55 soldiers and two officers. This is not about foreign bases, but about Bulgarian soldiers and officers. Second, to Mr. Korman Ismailov's line. Mr. Ismailov, I was talking about the negotiators, and you must think of them as ladies? I meant that the negotiators didn't serve soldiers, not that the ladies should serve soldiers. [[Laughter, excitement.]] That's what I meant. It's like an answer to your line. To Mr. Enchev, I don't know, a man who becomes independent probably becomes a blondophile. Mr. Enchev, I've seen a lot of your shows..... pretty extremely anti-Russian, and Putin has been declared a lot of satrap, an enemy and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u227	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u228	I'm surprised. I've never changed my mind in my life. In fact, if you recall, I've never made any such anti-Russian statements. On the contrary, I'd say it's a little extreme. After all, Russia is a big country, a traditional partner and so on. [[Noise and lines.]] Now, of course, when a person becomes independent, he starts making a new party and fights for folk love, he becomes a russophile. As the poet said, let me not quote that I will give you the right to a roll call. The truth is another simple and clear. You mentioned one sentence, which is a key responsibility, not only for the Patriotic Front, but also for all Bulgarian MPs. All Bulgarian MPs have the historical responsibility in a possible way to guarantee Bulgaria's national security. This module of 55 soldiers and two Bulgarian citizens officers could only improve the defense capabilities, experience and skills of the Bulgarian servicemen. I didn't say this was done just because of the problems in the Middle East. If you had listened to me well and carefully, you would have remembered what I say that Bulgaria has problems related to a neighbouring country that openly claims neo-Osmanist claims not only in Bulgaria and the Balkans, but also in the Middle East itself. We have a huge problem in the Middle East with an Islam state that is not only not overcome as a problem but is transferred to other European countries. Finds support in support of European countries, European citizens, exports a revolution in the form of terrorism, creates threats to national security. So I ask you very much: when we speak or do lines, to be as objective and correct as possible to what we say. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and PF, single applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u229	Mr. Siderov, you wish a speech, but since we have completed the procedure for the speech of Mr. Karakachanov, which started before 2:00, the proposal for extension was rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u230	Make an exception and give me the floor, things aren't right. You let this guy come out and spit on me here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u231	You'll have your chance. I'm just interrupting the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u232	[[Attack, talk away from the microphones]] : This man came out here to mock and mock and now you leave me unable to answer?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u233	Mr. Siderov, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u234	I won't answer Karakachanov because I have to ask him when you become a State Security agent during communism, do you take an oath to the Soviet Union or to the United States or NATO? Probably to the Soviet Union and to the Warsaw Treaty was given the oath that Agent Ivan took. But I'm not going to be dealing with retail pranks because these are bullies that talk about an exceptional complex. I mean, what you're deciding right now and want to put it to the vote is very dangerous. This isn't about Russia. It's about Bulgaria. We are talking about Bulgaria exactly. These heavy American machines, Agent Ivan. [[shows photo]] They were dumped here last week and there were 200 of them. They are in Bulgaria to protect us from whom?! From Turkey, do you think?! And why are you hugged by the party whose leader is filming with Erdogan? A hug with Erdogan in front of the Turkish flag, you are partners with this party and you are talking to me about some dangers from Turkey! Hypocrite, fake and double standard! We cannot trust a coalition that is currently showing all kinds of principles, applying any double standards and making itself a defender of national interests. As for the army, you yourself, Agent Ivan, were in the ODS when the Bulgarian army was defeated and destroyed. I have no relation to the Bulgarian Army, but I can also see blindfolded that our army and our military power was destroyed at the time you were partnered with another party. Now you're a partner with Korman Ismailov, who's filming with Erdogan and spreading $1 million. pictures in Bulgaria that this is Erdogan's party in Bulgaria. You think exactly what you are fighting for and what your national ideals are, because for your party I can say a lot of things. How many colors did you fly from here to this chair of the National Assembly to finally feel significant? [[Relations from the National Representative Valeri Simeonov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u235	Mr. Siderov, please.... on the topic, not personally to the speakers before you. [[Loud noise and lines from the Patriotic Front.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u236	The point is, right now you want to put us in the front. This is the front your Pentagon chiefs are talking about. They say we're a front line, that we'll fight from here. On the other hand, the party that broadcasts your military minister, BZNS, says the following: "Nenchev is a democrat prepared for the battle with Russia" Agent Ivan! Here, this is your military minister. He's preparing for the battle with Russia. So you with full consciousness are currently bringing Bulgaria into battle with Russia. Well, I hope you win this battle, because if you don't win, I don't know where you'll be looking for a place. These are your superiors, who are currently patting you on the shoulder of the American Embassy, who will not find you asylum, be assured, because they use the former agents of former services as doormats as napkins and then throw them away. That's what they're gonna do to you. You won't be able to hide anywhere! [[Relations from the National Representative Valeri Simeonov.]] And then you will say, "Siderov was right, and it will be too late! So, remember yourself before it's too late! Here comes the brightest Christian holiday. Be humble and vote against this proposal. Finally, Bulgaria to come out and say something sovereign, to say that we do not currently want these bases or NATO command centers. The situation has been completely different since 2005. The situation has changed greatly. In 2005, NATO and Russia were in partnership, now NATO and Russia are in hostility. We have to choose. We don't want to choose. We at Ataka want neutrality. Neutrality is laid down in our programme and I have been consistent since 2005. This is written in the founding document of Ataka. Neutrality, non-participation in military units, this is our view. So was Ivan Mihaylov's vision there is such a Bulgarian national... [[Relations from the National Representative Valeri Simeonov.]] Yes, why, sir? Do you happen to have a license? Do you happen to have a license on patriotism?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u237	Please don't go into personal dialogues in order!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u238	No one can issue licenses and no one can claim the right to speak on behalf of the Bulgarian national interest. Arguments are important! The argument today is that we currently have a very different geopolitical situation since 2005, and it requires very careful consideration of what we are doing. We can safely cancel these bases, these centers. We must refuse any possible exercises, landing of equipment and say that until this conflict is resolved at a high level, Bulgaria does not want to participate. That's the responsible attitude! That's the responsible state-of-the-art behavior! Everything else is petty nagging, complexion and other manifestations we've seen here, but now is not the time for that. I'm telling you again: Easter is coming. Think about it, since I see that the vote will be after the holidays, make sure that we vote against. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u239	First line. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u240	Thank you, Madam President. [[Noise and lines from PG to PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u241	Colleagues, please, no calls from the auditorium. Mr. Angelov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u242	Mr. Siderov, I would accept your statement as sincere and justified, but if it were Russian bases, for example, would you have similarly delivered and held such a zealous speech here? If it were bases of Turkey or of another non-NATO country, would you have given such a passionate speech in the same way? Somehow very unique and very populist sound all these speeches. Personally, I cannot accept them from people who, sadly, do not even know how to load the AKG, how many bullets are in the clip of the AKG............. for people who have sworn to serve Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people. One who has not taken an oath to serve Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people cannot give me speeches on how to protect my country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u243	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Siderov? He's not here. Personal explanation from Mr. Karakachanov. I hope this will put an end to today's plenary session.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u244	Mr. Siderov said that he was not a complexer, that my speech was complex. I don't have a reason. I'm 5'5," 124 kg. [[Happy tidings.]] If I were half his size, maybe I'd be a complexor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u245	Colleagues, please do not enter into personal characteristics
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u246	You put up with him saying things like that, and I'm entitled to a personal explanation. About the complexion, I think we're clear. Science has proven what growth the complexion creates and what not. [[Laughter at the right block.]] If you were here, we'd measure up. We're talking about the case. Second, Mr. Siderov said he was blindfolded to what was going on. I don't know, since he had ten diopters, which is why he had to leave the barracks, he hid, as they say, now that he's blindfolded how he's gonna see it, it's not clear to me. About the language in which I signed my declaration. In my life I have sworn to a country, and it is called the Republic of Bulgaria! I've kissed the Bulgarian flag! I haven't written my reports in Russian or English to report to my superiors abroad. This to Mr. Siderov, who came out, left the hall. I just have to answer it only and only to the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian national interest! He said that he had seen since 2005. It is, only before 2005, the same people who are now spitting on American soldiers called them the good American boys and Alyosha called them the invader of Europe! So in this regard, as opposed to him, I have not changed my beliefs and positions in my life. And I very much ask the real complexors not to treat people who express their opinion that way. I didn't hear a single argument in his speech. He showed a picture of an armored machine, and at the same time, if he had listened to the reports of the two committees, he would have realized that it wasn't an armored machine, but two officers, 55-year-olds, I repeat it for the fifth time! There are no armored machines! They're at some teachings, they're coming, the last May four, they didn't come and they're leaving. So the suggestion that someone here was getting ready for war is just extremely frivolous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u247	Come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u248	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Madam President, I am addressing you absolutely in violation of the Rules of Procedure today was given the word of Volen Siderov for speech. At exactly 2:08 p.m., neither a reply nor any procedure, and you gave him a statement that is simply a violation of the Rules! And I wonder why you did it! [[Reply from MP Vladimir Toshev.]] Therefore, I urge you not to allow such things! The fact that someone wants to do a commercial on their TV and babble nonsense is their problem to go and talk to them there in front of the camera! Why should the Rules be violated because of someone who goes on speaking untruths from the stand of the Bulgarian Parliament?! The other thing I'm gonna tell you. This, the same Siderov, is a member of the Foreign Commission! You've heard the report: 12 people, 0 against, 0 abstentions! How did he vote or where he was when this question is important to him?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-08.u249	I cannot answer your second question, Mr. Angelov, as I have no information as to whether he was involved in the discussion of the Bill and its vote in the Commission. As far as the first part of your question is concerned, you're right. After the procedure for the speech, lines and duplicates of Mr. Karakachanov was completed, it was correct to put an end to the plenary session. But you saw how strongly Mr. Siderov wanted to participate in this debate. Probably won't be here tomorrow, as I said we would cut the debate today and they will continue on tomorrow. You saw that the whole time he was standing on the aisle. [[Noise and lines.]] Let's hear it too, so there won't be any abuse after that, like in today's day, that someone had wanted the word, and I didn't give it to them. If someone walks down the aisle to the second row and then comes back, you probably didn't understand who he was, and I didn't give it to him, but it doesn't prevent him from abuse of the name of the National Assembly in front of the media. Tomorrow, a regular meeting of 9:00 p.m. I'm shutting down the plenary day. [[PHONE RINGING]]
