ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There is a quorum, I am opening the plenary session. Let me first present to your attention a draft program for the work of the National Assembly for the period 4 March. You know that today is the first Wednesday of the month and the parliamentary groups are entitled to proposals under art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Two parliamentary groups have taken advantage of it. The first proposal is from the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block, and it is for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses with importers Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs submitted on 5 December 2014. The parliamentary groups of the Patriotic Front, of the Bulgarian Democratic Center, of the party "Attack", of the ABB, of the Political Party GERB have not made proposals according to the order of this article and this paragraph. Following is a proposal from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. It is the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. Mr. Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs were importing on 14 November 2014. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. There is also no proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Colleagues, you know that by right these proposals come into our work programme for the week. I present to your attention the part of the National Assembly's Work Programme, which we must vote on: 3. Draft decision on the election of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad (importer: Mihail Mikov, 24 February 2015) and projects for decisions on changes in other permanent committees (importers: Valeri Simeonov, 26 February 2015; Krasimira Kovachka, 27 February 2015, Miho Mihov, 27 February 2015, Radan Kanev and Nayden Zelenogorski, 27 February 2015; Krasimir Velchev, 27 February 2015)). 4. Draft Decision on the imposition of a moratorium on exports of raw wood [[importers: Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs, 11 February 2015]] , Draft decision on suspension of exports and dispatches of goods falling within codes 440110, 440320, 440391, 440392 and 440399 under the Combined Nomenclature, pursuant to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1101/2014 of 16 October 2014 amending Annex I to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the Common Customs Tariff (OJ L 312/1 of 31 October 2014) [[importers: Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs, 12 February 2015]] and Draft Decision on the imposition of a moratorium on exports of raw wood [[importers: Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, 24 February 2015]] . 5. First vote on Laws amending and supplementing the Forest Act [[importers: Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, 27 October 2014; Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs, 18 November 2014; Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs, 12 February 2015; Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, 24 February 2015]] . 6. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for President, Vice-Presidents and two members of the Court of Auditors, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly (importer: Budget and Finance Committee, 19 February 2015) 7. Project for a decision to set up a Temporary Committee of inquiry to examine the facts and circumstances related to the actions of state authorities and institutions which should have exercised control and countered the draining of CCB in the period 2009-2014. [[importers: Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs, 27 February 2015]] . 8. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria (importer: Council of Ministers, 2 February 2015) I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 9. First vote on the Fiscal Council Bill and corrective mechanisms (importer: Council of Ministers, 9 February 2015)). 10. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act (importer: Council of Ministers, 2 February 2015)). 11. Parliamentary control under art. 104 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, which will be held today at 12:00 p.m. 12. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. You have the floor for speeches on the program. There aren't any. We are going to vote on the part of the Programme that is to be voted on. They voted 146 MPs: 133, against 1, abstention 12. The programme for the work of the National Assembly for the period 4 - 6 March 2015 was adopted. Drafts and draft decisions submitted from 25 February 2015 to 4 March 2015: Draft amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. The importer is Radan Kanev and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. A draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Importer is the People's Representative Valeri Simeonov. Project for a decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. Importer is the People's Representative Valeri Simeonov. Draft decision on the establishment of a Temporary Committee of inquiry to examine the facts and circumstances related to the actions of state authorities and institutions, which should have exercised control and counteracted the drain of Corporate Commercial Bank in the period 2009 - 2014. Importers are Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Commission for Bulgarians abroad. Importer is the People's Representative Miho Mihov. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Energy. Importer is the national representative Krasimira Kovachka. Annual report on the Commission's activity to prevent and establish a conflict of interest for 2014. The Commission is the importer to prevent and establish a conflict of interest. The division of a committee is coming up. A draft decision to complete the composition of the Defence Committee. Importer is the national representative Krasimir Velchev. A draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints. The representatives are Radan Kanev and Nayden Zelenogorski. Communications for the period 26 February 2015 == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man The National Assembly has also received: Report on the degree of implementation of the approved policies and programmes under the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for 2014; Report on the degree of implementation of the established policy in the field of the implementation of special intelligence funds and the budget programme The reports are presented to the Budget and Finance Committee, to the relevant portfolio committees and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 27 February 2015, the National Statistical Institute received information containing results from statistical research on the business climate in industry, construction, trade and services in February 2015, a general index of producer prices in industry and indexes at domestic prices for January 2015. The material is available to the MPs in the National Assembly Library. An offer with importer Krasimira Kovachka has also been made: "On the grounds of art. 85, para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly withdraw draft Decision No 554-02-20 of 26 February 2015 on a change in the composition of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Now move to the agenda of the programme we have adopted. Point one is proposed by the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ACTIS AND THE DANISH CARDS. Importers are Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs from 5 December 2014. There's no report from the committee. Mr. Zelenogorski, you have the floor for an opinion from the importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I would like to introduce you to the proposal for a change in the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses made by the Reformation Block. Our motives for the bill are as follows. With the creation of this provision, which we propose and it is in § 1, in art. 52, para. 1 to create a new t. 6, adding:.. Using means of measurement and control under art. 4 t. 55 letters (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (es), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s)), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (es), (es), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (es), (es), (s), (es), (es), (es), (es), (s), (s), (s)), (s), (s)), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), ( Our motives are that with the creation of this provision the customs administration will optimize the monitoring of the movement of energy products in tax warehouses, part of which are oil pipelines and oil pipelines. The specification of such tax warehouses provides for the need to introduce requirements for measuring and controlling the places for the introduction and removal of energy products from the oil pipeline or oil pipeline, part of the tax warehouse, to and from the places of production and storage in the tax warehouse. The purpose of the provision is effective and timely control of the activities of the tax warehouse and full control of excise goods and the levying of the excise duty due. The application of the provision will provide accurate and clear information to the control bodies on the movement and storage of excise goods under suspension of excise duty and compliance with the licensing regime under the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses by the taxable person. According to the provision of art. 15 § 1 of Council Directive 2008/118 of 16 December 2008 on the general arrangements for excise duties each Member State shall lay down its rules on the production, processing and holding of excise goods in compliance with the provisions of the Directive. The specific requirements laid down in the provision do not restrict the movement of goods and do not constitute an obstacle to Community trade. The transmission of data from the measuring and control means shall have a determining importance for excise taxation, respectively for the control of excise goods placed under suspension of excise duty. This provision, in our view, will result in a real accounting of the amount of excise goods under certain indicators, such as a measure and a way of determining the amount of excise duty due. The use of modern and reliable technique will minimize the human factor in the reporting of quantities of goods subject to the relevant excise duty. The strict fulfilment of the requirements laid down in the provision ensures the illumination of the grey sector in the field of excise products, the equal treatment of all economic operators operating with excise goods and, last but not least, ensuring the collection of the excise duty due. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u3	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Here you are, dear Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! We at the Reformation Bloc saw that last week all parliamentary groups declared a low deficit and Bulgaria did not take loans. For this reason, we immediately offer you one of the necessary solutions.. tightening the control of excise goods. We are convinced that all groups, who noisyly wanted Bulgaria not to take new loans, will now unanimously support us. What's this about? During GERB's first term, the previous GERB government with our support were installed measuring instruments in Lukoil, including inside the excise warehouse. Unfortunately, during the mandate Oresharski these appliances were dismantled. I repeat, dismantled because there was an argument about it. I asked Vanyo Tanov several times, who replied that the appliances had been dismantled during the Oresharski mandate. I've been wondering for a long time what the motive might be to remove measuring instruments inside the excise warehouse, remove them. It turns out that these motives should not be sought in unpublic places, on the contrary, there are them in public form. They are written in the reasons of a regulation adopted by the Ministry of Finance during the term of office of Oresharski. Look what it says. It says the following thing. [[Reply from BSP LB: "We know this! "]] The information generated by the measuring instruments is in extremely high volume, with variables and difficult to process. Therefore, during the term of office, Oresharski, the Ministry of Finance concluded that the information was difficult to process and therefore decided to remove the measuring instruments inside the excise warehouse in Lukoil. Dear colleagues, now in January and February there are improved incomes from excise duties and VAT, which is due to the improved work of the Customs Agency and the tax administration. But if we want to make systematic measures to have a greater collection of revenues, then for all major producers of excise goods there must be measuring instruments. Whether it is alcohol, cigarettes or fuels, measuring instruments must be installed everywhere to ensure that there is a good collection of revenues. The text I am now proposing is synchronized and discussed with the Customs Agency. They stand behind him. I've talked to them, asked them specifically. They say such a measure is necessary in order to have a high collection of excise revenue. If any parliamentary group would like to amend some of the texts, make changes between first and second readings, we will agree. That is, please, if you do not agree with this point and wish it to be corrected, let this not be used as your reason not to support us now. Let's between first and second readings make the text as effective as possible. Specially to colleagues from GERB "Dear colleagues from GERB," during the first cabinet with Prime Minister Borisov, such appliances are installed with your vote and our support. I do not see the logic now to give up such measures and not restore the situation as it was. Just to be sure, not for anything else, but to make sure that control is at the highest level with regard to producers of excise goods. Those measures must be restored to their full size and scale. And, by the way, as the debt vote was being followed, I now call on every group that voted not to have a new debt to have a low deficit to support us now. Otherwise, colleagues, you will be deeply insincere. You want there to be no new debt, but you do not support tightening the control of excise goods. So, when are you sincere then or now? I count with full consensus, this should be a measure that Parliament will adopt with full consensus, to have increased control over the production of excise goods. I therefore call on the National Assembly today, which is why the Group of the Reformation Block has tabled these texts. This will allow a reduction in the budget deficit, a reduction in external debt, all the measures that were discussed so in detail last week and I saw parliamentary groups that loudly and powerfully stood behind them. We are testing their sincerity now if they think these things or simply apply elementary populism. Finally, colleagues, we are convinced that the GERB Parliamentary Group, which first introduced these measuring instruments, will support us. But my explicit question to Vanyo Tanov during the Budget Committee I asked him like this: "Okay, Mr. Tanov, you have at the entrance, you have measuring instruments at the exit. Why do you want to have it inside the measuring warehouse?.. He told all colleagues in the Budget Committee so:.. Mr. Dimitrov, if inside we do not have measuring instruments and we find that certain quantities, for example 30%, cannot be found, the company can claim that they are in the pipes. We can't tell where these quantities are. That's why they were installed inside the excise warehouse then, so now we have to rebuild them. My fellow Members, the members of the Budget Committee have heard this answer, they have heard of my explicit question that these appliances have been contained inside of Lukoil and have been dismantled, so we will not cause serious additional costs to this company. The appliances are there. They can just be mounted. There's really no problem. Additional costs will not be imposed. Honourable Members, considering how to improve the collection of tax revenue in the budget, we need to introduce an automated control regime, an automated measurement mode. And this regime to apply it universally to all producers of excise goods, each to the last. Because, see, as parliament, we started doing it for alcohol and cigarettes. There was a notification there that I don't know where it came from, and it turns out we haven't done anything so far. If we want to reform Bulgaria, change it, improve the collection of revenues, this is one of the first measures we need to take. So on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation bloc, I appeal to each and every MP today to support us so that tomorrow we can show a better implementation of the budget and reduce the amount of debt that has been requested by all the parliamentary groups. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u5	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Replies to Mr. Martin Dimitrov's statement? I can't see. Mr. Imamov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u6	Mr President, honourable Members, I will not speak in substance about this bill. Perhaps the authors have reason to claim that it will have a positive impact on revenue. I'm speaking according to procedure. In accordance with art. 73, para. 2 of our Rules of Procedure: In the reasons the importer gives an opinion on the expected consequences, including financial consequences, of the implementation of the bill. "I want to tell you that in this National Assembly I have not been able to consider tax law in the middle of the year for many years. Because any change in the tax law affects the revenue of the budget. Once it does, it does not matter whether they are positive, I do not dispute this statement of yours after having an impact on budget revenue, a proposal for a change in the budget itself follows. This should be done with a clear and accurate assessment of the effects. You, Mr. Dimitrov, mentioned that you have taken the opinions, probably orally, of the Customs Agency, but there should be a written opinion of this extremely important institution here. Furthermore, there is no opinion of the committee responsible, which is also an important problem. There is no opinion of the Ministry of Finance as to what they think of your proposal. So given these reasons, I propose to postpone the discussion and vote on this bill. [[Field lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u7	Please just mention, if you please, the period within which you propose that there be a postponement of the debates on the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u8	There is no need for a deadline, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u9	Thank you. A reverse opinion? I give the floor for a reverse opinion on the proposed procedure. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I have a reverse opinion on not delaying the examination and vote on the bill submitted by my colleagues from the Reformation Block. Dear Mr. Imamov, you obviously didn't read the State Budget Act properly. Moreover, you have not read the Law on Laws as well. As you know, colleagues, the State Budget Act provides for a deficit of up to 3% of gross domestic product. In other words, what colleagues propose is to minimise this deficit, and God forbid there are excesses. So it is untenable that Mr. Imamov's proposal to postpone the examination of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u11	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u12	Fix the budget deficit, then.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u13	He's not adjusting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u14	Before that, I must put to the vote the proposed procedure by Mr. Imamov. Just to say that under the Rules of Procedure, respectively Art. 50, para. 8: As points, drafts and drafts may be offered for decisions on which there are no reports received, but the time limits under art. 75, para. Art. 3 and Art. 85, para. 4 have expired. So it is acceptable to examine this Bill. Either way, I am putting to the vote Mr. Imamov's proposal to postpone the debates at first reading of the tabled bill. Please, honourable Members, vote. Vote 126 MPs: 25, against 88, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. We'll continue the debate. Mr. Bozhino, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u15	Dear Mr. President, I am very aware that your powers for the procedure have been regulated for what is going on in this Chamber. You have authority when replacing the President outside the area around the National Assembly. What I'm about to say is behind the zone. But when the people's representative is prevented from taking his place in the National Assembly, that is now an issue that concerns you. Our country is being visited today by respected guests, but we too need to respect ourselves.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u16	Mr. Bojinov, please, under procedure related to the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u17	Members of the National Assembly can't reach their workplace so the center of the capital is blocked. [[Radio, noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u18	Mr. Bojinov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u19	I ask you to order this not to happen again, because because of respectable guests, I will not mention their names, access to the National Assembly is very limited so that I do not say hindered.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u20	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. We will comment on the subject and I will draw attention to it. Please make statements on the bill. Mr. Bayraktarov, you wanted the floor. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u21	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will also speak on the subject, moreover, that it is related to the collection, to the implementation of the state budget and to all children's dreams. When we discussed the budget here, everyone was putting forward proposals, we want this, this and this. In order for them to happen, however, it takes money. I'll start with the cigarettes. It's easier for me. Each of you who has seen a box of cigarettes knows that there are 20 cigarettes inside and is convinced that the machine, which has been producing cigarettes for decades, everywhere in the world, is filled with exactly 20 cigarettes. Can't 21, can't 22, because the owner will go bankrupt. It can't be 19 or 18 because whoever bought it will turn out to have given money for something they didn't get. Well, how can machines have been designed and operated for decades, measured the exact amount of tobacco, the exact amount of density, the weight, the glue, the filter, make 20 cigarettes per box, and when we ask: how many times today have you produced 20 cigarettes per box to bet it, suddenly it turns out that this is an extremely complex, impossible problem that the European Union needs to solve, and the law of measurement, and so on?! So I also insist that the issue of cigarettes be resolved. The theme is fuel. I've been involved with Neftohim since 1996, 1997. The oil barter against the grain. BSP, you sent me there. What's the problem? Rosenets Base This is the largest warehouse in Bulgaria, the largest warehouse in Bulgaria! It was built there for a reason to protect him. And Rosenets is exported from the other end of the bay so that if there is a major production accident, the city will not be harmed. In this warehouse there is a measuring station that measures 17 "18 types of fluids, fuels in different ways, in different temperatures. And this measured station for years failed to be repaired in such a way that it could faithfully and effectively measure. Of course, from this warehouse through pipes the fuel is transported both to Lukoil and to the bases in the country. And it's possible that when you do a sample, you actually have a large amount of fuel presented to you as available, and it's already sold, which is not insignificant for the budget. How to Control? We want collection, we want control, we want equality of economic entities. This does not only last for "Lukoil." It lasts for all of us. It lasts for "Saxa" and "Zebra" and "Insa" and "Saxa" and "Zebra." For all who have customs offices located in several places, i.e. in the territory of several customs offices, their warehouses shall be located. As the introduction across the border was railway, it was transport, land; port, bunkering. Just one question: how are we really going to carry out this control? I'm going to set a very light example. The planes that fly through Bulgaria are about 3000 per day. Only 200 of them, no more than 200 are landing on our territory. And yet there are 60 monitors, 40 air traffic controllers who are on shifts and constantly watching these planes passing through the Echelons, but they're watching them. There is one computer in the Customs Agency, which is included twice a week for one hour. And we want to see on this computer as I told you, you have 3,000 goals in the sky that you really care about. And here you have 3500 gas stations, 3000 tanks and 30 bases in the country, plus Lukoil and the big ones that constantly transport fuel. One computer won't do it, and only measuring instruments won't do it. Indeed, the volume of information is too great, and those who process it are not prepared for it at all. In conclusion, imagine that you live in a small town where there is a gas station and 10,000 cars. If someone starts to develop the theme that we need to make special control: from car to car, level meter, GPS, night and day checks, car spending at any given moment, whether it has drained, whether it has given, it will make sense of the time of many, but really at the moment when they passed the gas station and paid for everything that we didn't care about. We have 30 bases in the country, 20 of them working. But in these 20 bases, which are some kind of large gas stations, there is the cash register of the state in Rosenets and on these 30 bases. This cash register, including the introduction into the country, must be included in order for there to be revenue and for all the things that we have put into the budget, both as social policy and as education and municipalities, to be implemented. We want collection and we want the budget to be implemented in order to implement it. In conclusion, I would say that the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front will fully support these proposals. And I hope that everyone else understands that this revenue must be entered into the budget in order to implement the policy for which we voted before New Year's with the State Budget Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u22	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Please, lines of the speech of the MP Emil Dimitrov? I don't see anyone wishing to replicate you. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u23	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! For me, to a large extent, the debate on this point is pointless. There is hardly a reasonable man, a man of simple logic, who should be convinced of the extraordinary necessity for the adoption of this Bill. More like backwards if we start. Mr. Imamov, Aliosmane, how can you make such a procedural proposal? Where is the justification in these two months of the Ministry of Finance? That's the important question. Why is there no opinion of the Ministry of Finance for two months on the Bill? Why are there no opinions of committees? As if it were some amount of money in the order of several hundred leva! It's not like we're talking about tens of millions a month! And basically, I don't think that a normal, logically rational person should be convinced that there is no point in sending a signal for each coffee maker for every 40 penny received to pour the necessary dose of coffee into a plastic cup and, at the same time, the largest source of income to be left on autopilot, to be left on declared quantities! Because it is a public secret to all who live in the region of Burgas, that there is no measurement at the entrance, not only in terms of the incoming quantities in the fuel warehouse, but including the ships carrying fuel, they are measured on a waterline. Can you imagine? The twenty-first century of the country's quantities of fuel processing are measured on the waterline! That's what brings us back in time. Maybe somewhere in Columbus' time it was. The proposal of the Reformist bloc colleagues is extremely justified. I don't think there's any need for any further convincing. It is only for January for undeclared quantities (in the mass media) in liquid warehouses, which are detected by the Customs Agency, amounting to around 70 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market That's what I've read, that's what I've seen, that's what I'm telling you. It may not be exactly that number, but that's the order. Multiply it for 12 months and you'll find it's a billion. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, which are saved by taxes and excise duties! And this was found in the first check for this year for January. It is unacceptable to vote on a budget of state budget, to vote on debt, to assume, to ratify a debt of 16 billion when some billions are rolling in the space between a port, a port of oil, a Rosenets, a Lukoil, and consumers, including Lukoil gas stations. It's about tens of millions, hundreds of millions and billions of levs! I do not think that any further argument is needed against the background of the adopted Bill on Value Added Tax, in which we oblige all semi-stainless tanks in the old TTCs to put their measuring instruments on level meters, and pumps, columns. Against the backdrop of everything that has never worked and will not work, I just think that our solution should be united and unified: in support of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u24	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Any lines to the statement? Personal explanation you were mentioned, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u25	Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Simeonov, you have addressed me by my first name. I don't know if that's an expression of respect or sarcasm, but I'm obliged to respond the same way. Valerie, I repeat: I do not question the content of the law. I'm questioning the procedure. These procedures are recorded in our Rules. It is said that in order to vote on a new tax law that affects the budget, appropriate changes to the budget itself must be made. We have no opinion of the committee responsible. Why? Let him become someone and say, "Why?" We have no written opinions from any institution that has a direct bearing on this problem. Don't worry! I know the budget well. I've done it for 12 years now. That's my point. So whoever thinks logically should listen logically and give logical answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u26	Thank you, Mr. Imamov. That was a line, I'd say. Either way, I'm opening a procedure for the lines of Mr. Simeonov's speech. I don't see anyone who wants to. Any further comments? Here's a statement from Mr. Peter Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will try to wake up my fellow Members from the left, reminding them of what they said during the discussion of the State Budget Act, commenting on the regulation in question 3. There were reproaches to them that it had been canceled, that is, that text identical to this has been canceled, which has led to the astonishing reduction in driving cars by people by 30%. That was pretty much one of the explanations we heard. Of course, the other explanation was that it's being driven by smuggled fuels. So the accusation to them then was put about it and the explanation they gave was that, in fact, the regulation in this form was then contrary to the law in force. There is now a wonderful opportunity for this to be written in the law in a way in which it is also agreed with the Customs Agency, i.e. with the authority that implements the law, and in a way that must result, i.e. this contradiction that was bothering them at the time, is gone and I think they can safely support the proposal. As far as this argument is concerned, which the DPS points out was not his time, you know, he could normally be correct if it was about changing rates or something specifically related to the way of taxation, respectively with regard to excise duties. This is about control, which is something quite different, and there is no problem in doing so within the current year, so that if they really believe that the time has been insufficient or I do not know exactly what they think, but they could safely, through a Vice-President who has the Budget or Economic Commission, take the initiative and, in practice, this provision to be looked at in the relevant committees. We have currently introduced it into the Chamber after the expiry of all the deadlines under our Rules of View in committees and on the basis of a Rule of Procedure which allows to be seen in this hypothesis directly in plenary, so that, indeed, if they have specific proposals for changes between the two readings, they can do so and there is really no reason to seek a change. Colleagues, when it comes to collecting tens or hundreds of millions more revenue in the budget, the question is not: exactly how many will they be, but when will we collect them and how will we collect them? Isn't that right? And the more they are, the better. That's what I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u28	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any further comments? You are welcome to the left answer your call.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u29	Colleagues, I am taking a plea to state that on the left, we will support your proposal. And very categorically. [[Applause on the right.]] However, if you continue to speak in this sense, there is a good chance that one of your colleagues will be hesitated. I can guarantee you that, too. [[Radio.]] Because Sunday sermons are something very good, but in this particular case they have no value. In essence, the decree which canceled these measuring instruments, which you are all talking about, there is no sanction for it by the National Assembly. You know that thing very well. And you know very well that in this House the MPs of the Bulgarian Socialist Party have not given a mandate to the government to make such amendments. Otherwise, we simply agree entirely that we cannot check and argue whether to put measuring instruments to farmers, and where the huge quantities are, where the real opportunities are the country to fill its treasury, measure with sticks, because this is the way it is measured at the moment and measure the quantity that enters the refineries in Bulgaria. From this point of view, we will be extremely correct and we will support this proposal, giving the account very clearly that this control must be strengthened. I'm going to open a clamp here, not just in terms of fuel. I support my colleague Dimitrov, who proposed an option for seeking opportunities to expand control in other sectors, which also have opportunities for additional funds in the treasury, so from this point of view, I say, on the left, we will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u30	Thank you, Mr. Gorov. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Please, honourable Members, we are going into voting mode. We are voting at first reading a bill amending the Law on excises and tax warehouses with entry No 454-01-59, submitted by the National Representative Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs on 5 December 2014. Dear colleagues, please vote. They voted 143 MPs: 142, against none, abstention 1. The proposal has been accepted. The result is eloquent. [[Applause.]] Thank you. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND ADVISION OF THE SOCIAL ASSINATION CODE - sequel. Importers "Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs. It was introduced on 14 November 2014. My fellow Members, I would like to inform you that this is a continuation. The draft is considered at the plenary session of 14 January 2015, Wednesday. The MPs Mr. Chukolov, Mr. Gokov and Mrs. Svetlana Angelova have spoken. The remaining time of the parliamentary groups is as follows: GERB I am opening the re-opening debates on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Social Security Code first reading. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please, on the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to extend the deadline for proposals by MPs under the Deposit Guarantee Bill in the Banks, No 402-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 December 2014, by another ten days.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u32	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yordanova. A reverse opinion? I can't see. I put to the vote Mrs. Yordanova's procedural proposal. They voted 111 MPs: for 107, none against, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We're moving on to the Social Security Code debate. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u33	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to recall the fact that the proposed Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Social Security Code is being dealt with at a time when the talks on pension reform continue. By 31 March this year, a long-term resolution must be achieved on issues relating to increasing retirement age and all other components of the pension system, including the issue of early retirement of persons. It is important to achieve financial stability and security of the system, to have clarity and predictability of current and future pensioners. We therefore believe that the proposed bill should be discussed in the context of all other proposals for changes in the pension system. The Bulgarian pension system is facing serious difficulties arising as a result of a number of factors that are known to all the people, the demographic crisis, the serious deficit in the pension system. Everyone in this room is aware of how the pension system works in our country. We are aware that the contributions currently cover only half of the pension costs. We are aware that the difference is covered by the state budget. On the one hand, the trend for ageing the population in Bulgaria and reducing the number of people in working age leads to negative consequences for social security, as the period for obtaining a pension is becoming longer and the number of people who receive a pension is greater. On the other hand, as a result of changes in birth rates and mortality, as well as in the migration that exists, the negative demographic processes continue. The changes proposed in the Social Security Code................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, which has not been estimated and voted in the budget of state social security for 2015. Next, the recommendations of both the European Commission and the World Bank towards Bulgaria are to limit the opportunities for early retirement................................................................................... This proposal practically expands early retirement by enabling women and men in Bulgaria who work under the conditions of the third category of work to retire two years earlier, that is to say, in practice, a reduction in the retirement age is proposed. The European and global trend is an increase in retirement age due to ageing population, and here is proposed the exact opposite of a reduction in retirement age. In their motives, colleagues show that the proposed changes will lead to the solution of the problem of long-term unemployed people in pre-retirement age. We believe that we should look for ways to offer jobs to people instead of offering an option for early retirement. Looking at all the proposals made in this project, we see that they would lead to a significant increase in newly granted pensions from state social security, which would therefore lead to an increase of around 120 million. lv. for 2015, which we know are neither read nor voted. Dear colleagues, in relation to what has been said so far, we of the political party GERB's parliamentary group will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u34	Thank you for your speech, Mrs. Angelova. - What's the line? I won't. Mrs. Gancheva, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u35	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposed Draft must be discussed in the context of all other proposals for changes in the area of the pension system in order to seek a lasting and sustainable solution to the repeatedly asked issues concerning early retirement of persons, the adequacy of the pensions received, ensuring stability, predictability and financial sustainability of the system. The proposals for changes must be taken into account in the first place by the fact that the state social security system in Bulgaria faces serious difficulties arising as a result of many factors....................................................................... and others. According to the United Nations organization, Bulgaria is among the ten countries with the oldest population and is ranked fifth by percentage of adult population within the general population. About 24% of the country's inhabitants are over 60 years of age. As a result of a reduction in birth rates, high mortality and migration, negative demographic processes continue. A serious demographic problem is the low percentage of the population by the age of 14, which is 13.4%. The increase in the adult population leads to greater costs for pensions, health care and long-term care. These problems are of great importance to the pension system and state social security in Bulgaria, as state social security in Bulgaria operates on a cost-covering principle. This means that workers' income from social security contributions must cover the cost of pensions. At present, however, the contribution revenue covers less than half of the pension costs and the underprivileged 52% is covered by the state budget. Demographic trends related to ageing, increasing the average life expectancy and reducing the number of people working at a working age lead to negative consequences for social security. On the one hand, the persons who make contributions become less, and on the other hand, the period of receipt of pensions becomes longer and the number of persons who receive pensions is increasing. Once people live longer, they must stay longer and employed to avoid an irresistible increase in costs for social payments. It is undeniable that without financial stability of state social security, which leads to an increase in revenue and a reduction in expenditure, it is not possible to ensure the preservation of the incomes of the current and future pensioners. Proposals for amendments to the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Social Security Code must be addressed in the context of the European Union recommendations. Several consecutive years in its recommendations to Bulgaria, the Council requires a reduction in the cases of early retirement, as well as an increase in the required age and insurance internship to acquire the right to pension. The latest recommendations of 8 July 2014 indicate that Bulgaria is necessary, and I quote: To adopt a long-term strategy for the pension system by continuing the planned annual increase in statutory retirement age and establishing a mechanism for binding the statutory retirement age to the life expectancy in the long term, while gradually eliminating early retirement opportunities and introducing the same age for men and women. It is important to bear in mind the following recommendation: In 2013 Bulgaria withdrew from the commitments made in the area of pension reform. Early retirement schemes were not limited as envisaged. The planned annual increase in statutory retirement age has been postponed. No progress has been made with regard to the harmonisation of the retirement age for men and women and no steps have been taken to introduce stricter criteria and mechanisms for control in the award of invalidity pensions so as to limit abuse. The population of Bulgaria is one of the fastest ageing in the Union and this fact shows a negative impact on the labour market, the potential for growth of the economy and on the financing of its pension system. Bulgaria should therefore continue the reform of its pension system. All of this requires a thorough review of our retirement conditions legislation, in particular the retirement age, and a careful selection of the measures that need to be taken with a view to achieving financial sustainability of the pension system and the adequacy of pensions. When preparing specific proposals, we should be guided by the rules on strict adherence to the principles of social security and their recovery where they are violated. We must adhere to the philosophy, institutional and information framework of the insurance model established in Bulgaria. We must comply with the European regulations, directives and recommendations and all international social acts to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country. We must strive to achieve predictability and social tolerance in the short and medium term of the proposed changes, preserving financial stability and avoiding unbearable pressure on public finances and a high budget deficit. The proposals made by the Bill do not fully comply with these principles. First of all, a change to the provision of art. 68 of the Social Security Code, in which permanent and not only for a certain period of time, the increase in the retirement requirements of workers under the third category of work and internship shall be suspended. The settlement of retirement issues in this way does not correspond either to the current demographic and socio-economic situation in the country or to the recommendations of the European Union. Therefore, our parliamentary group will not support the proposed change of art. 68 of the Social Security Code. The introduction into the legislation of the possibility of granting a retirement pension in terms of reduced age and/or disability for 24 months means the introduction of a new early retirement opportunity, something to which a restriction must be sought. The proposed proposals would result in a significant increase in the number of newly granted pensions from state social security and, consequently, an increase in costs of around 120 million. lv. on an annual basis not estimated in Budget 2015 I conclude that the proposals for amendments included in the Bill are better discussed in the context of a comprehensive concept of changes in the pension system, which is why at present the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB does not support proposals Draft amendment and supplement to the Social Security Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u36	Thank you for your speech, Mrs. Gancheva. Any lines to the statement? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u37	Mr. Chairman, Members of Parliament, in the speech of the previous colleague, I find irreconcilable contradictions. On the one hand, it quoted the European Union directive last year, which requires respect for pension age with long-term demographic trends. I think the demographic trends in Bulgaria are clear and clear. They're about reducing life expectancy. Unfortunately, these are the facts in Bulgaria. We cannot fail to comply, especially when this is laid down as a requirement by the European Union. In this regard, I do not see any logic in the conclusion that the proposal of BSP colleagues should not be supported. It was also quoted that the change in art. 68 permanently suspends the growth of retirement age and this, as was not explained afterwards, will lead to an overcost of 120 million in the budget. lv. Annually. At the front point, however, I think that we have all united around the fact that we agree to bring in a minimum of 1 billion only from taxes and excise duties, so that 120 million will be a very small part of the money that will come into the state budget, and in the shortest possible time. We believe that there is indeed, as has been said before me, the fastest ageing population in Bulgaria compared to the other countries of the European Union. However, we must not forget that Bulgaria lives the earliest dying population in the European Union and there is no way that retirement age will not be consistent with life expectancy. Come on, this time let's read the European directives, give them a reading that will benefit Bulgarian citizens. To conclude, I declare that we will support the proposed Bill for nothing else, not only on these arguments, but also on the fact that this is precisely what is at stake in our election programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u38	Thanks for the line. Second line? Two lines left hanging in the air. Would you like a douche? Here you are, Mrs. Gancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u39	Life expectancy in Bulgaria is also increasing, as is the trend worldwide. I would like to add that what is estimated to be over-spending the budget is 120 million. BGN, if people take advantage of the possibility of early retirement, when they compensate age and internship in total for 24 months, you cannot predict exactly how many people will benefit from this opportunity. However, the amount to be spent will be large and it is impossible for the state budget, as well as for state social security. Thus spending a large amount will affect the increase in the budget deficit.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u40	Thank you. Any other speeches? Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would like to start by saying that I personally will support the proposal made by my fellow Members from the BSP. Why would I support him? Because the philosophy of the Patriotic Front is all that is good, useful for the people and for Bulgaria to be supported. As we have just supported the extremely useful bill of our colleagues in the Reformation bloc, we will also support these useful proposals. However, today I have a feeling that many of those present in the Chamber cannot make a proper assessment of what it is about. In fact, the current Code of Social Security and, more specifically, art. 68, envisions men retiring in a 40-year internship. I'm saying not an internship, but an internship. First of all, this is an extremely heavy blow to the generation that we are now at the age of 50. A huge part of these people, honourable Members, have some huge white spots in their internship for the simple reason that the disagreements that took place after 10 November 1989 first gave a prerequisite in which people could not navigate what this insurance internship was, because the current Labour Code of 1986 said that every Bulgarian citizen who signed a contract was practically in insurance relations with his employer. There was no Social Security Code in force at the time. I will not explain to you that there was also a lack of electronic system for reporting the insurance internship of Bulgarian citizens. Such an electronic system was introduced after 2000. In other words, some of these people who today need to retire and obtain the relevant documents in order to qualify for their insurance and service service, even today, are experiencing enormous difficulties, since they need to refer to the Accounting Act, to look for payrolls that are kept for 50 years and thus to earn the so-called Model 2. So, honourable Members, first of all, following the current rules of art. 68 of the Social Security Code, in particular para. 1 and 2, we are practically condemning a huge part of the Bulgarian population not to receive the right of retirement at all. Moreover, we condemn nearly 2 million. Bulgarians who are forced to become immigrants in foreign countries will never be able to receive pensions, let alone encourage them to return and work in Bulgaria with the clear idea that they will never be able to retire or if they retire, they will receive a social pension. Moreover, I have heard colleagues comment here that the so-called first pillar, otherwise referred to as the NSI, is a cost-covering one. I just don't know why I don't hear you talking about a real contribution to this first pillar. Because it is the problem of the Bulgarian pension system. It is the NSI that is the problem for the simple reason that for years the state has not applied the other methodology, namely to stimulate Bulgarian citizens to import. And how can they be stimulated if not by taking into account their contribution to this system. We continue to talk about a cost-covering system and not to take into account the contribution of the citizen concerned. Why? Because a bottomless landing can always be drained and, of course, the money there will never be enough. Well, should we wait for people to die in order to solve the problems of the first pension pillar, more intelligible-worded NOI? And now it is obvious and clear that life expectancy in Bulgaria is dramatically decreasing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u42	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u43	It is absolutely true and do not talk to me about a variety of European directives, because if we followed these European directives only three days ago, you would not have voted against these same European directives when we had to vote on the amendments to the Energy Act. And now there will be a criminal procedure against Bulgaria. Have these European directives reported that Bulgaria is actually the poorest country? Did they say that Bulgarian pensioners take the lowest pensions, almost a million and a half of our mothers and fathers live below the poverty line? No, they didn't. Why? However, we are here the people who need to take account of these indicators and these criteria. And we are the ones who have to make sure that the Bulgarian pensioner finally receives a decent pension and takes account of the real criteria of life. Twenty-five years we live in a chaos and wander left and right, play red and blue, and in fact the Bulgarian Constitution does not divide the MPs of opposition and government. The Bulgarian Constitution says that every MP represents the Bulgarian people and does not divide them into opposition and government. That is why I said that there should be a general situation here and a general vote on something that is good. By the way, let me tell you that the amendments made to the Social Security Code, which were supposedly not going to work, are already in effect. People who, for the first time since January 1st, are registering work experience, are already paying their insurance only in the NSI, and not as they should have the choice of making their insurance in the second pillar, otherwise in pension funds. This thing I don't know why it's being kept quiet and not told by anyone. So, honourable Members, we need to look really at the things and the things that exist in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u44	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I saw there were calls from the gym. Officially replicate? Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, first of all, I would like to remind you that the bill we have tabled has been from November 2014 and it has been our understanding as a counterpoint of the so-called pension reform, which you know has given priority to increasing the retirement age and the duration of the insurance service. There was not yet talked about this type of pension reform debate, which you know was triggered much later. In the little time that I have, I would like to dispel another doubt that has been made here in this Chamber regarding the changes we have proposed in art. 68, namely giving people under age or internship an opportunity to retire early within 24 months.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u46	Mr. Boychev, I'm sorry to interrupt, but you're running out of time. You can ask for an extension.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u47	Isn't the group's time extended?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u48	No, it's not prolonged.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u49	In that case, please extend it. I thought it was extended, so I was in a hurry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u50	Please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u51	So our proposed changes to art. 68 of the Social Security Code enables those people who are in pre-retirement age and who have a lack of insurance or retirement age to have an early retirement opportunity. And notice what we've done. We say that those of them who want to benefit from this right, if it is supported today by the House, will be corrected their pensions by 0.4% for each of the months in which they are short. So we have done our best, what has been said here by the House, that, you see, there will be severe consequences on the budget of state social security, is not true, as these people will give up the right to receive the full amount of pension, notice, for life. So in a medium term, this will balance the budget of state social security. I want to tell you one more argument. These people don't go to retire early because they want to. To a large extent these are pre-retirement people who are permanently unemployed, people in whom no employer wants to invest, no employer wants to take them to work, and also our re-qualification programmes have excluded them from their scope. So these are the destinies of people for whom we want in our proposal to give an opportunity for a decent life. We believe that the amendments we have proposed to the Social Security Code will also be an element of this, hopefully, concept of a comprehensive pension reform that will guarantee a decent life for the people of retirement age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u52	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? I can't see. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In accordance with art. 61, para. 2 On behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group, I propose a half hour rest. More specifically, I'd like to call a recess.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u54	I respect your request and the regulations and announce a 15-minute recess. At 10:45 p.m., we're still in session. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u55	Honourable Members, we are continuing with the debate on First Reading on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Social Security Code. Mr. Zhelyo Boychev spoke last. There were no lines to his speech. We continue with other speeches on the submitted bill. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! When the ruling majority was formed, after quite lengthy negotiations between the coalition partners, the Bulgarian society was exposed by optimistic claims that the government had agreed and reached full agreement on a total of 90 of 94 topics. We, given the disideological nature of the parties that form the ruling majority, remained skeptical. Even in order to highlight the transcendence of the topics of agreement over the other three or four topics on which there is no agreement, we recommended that the topics of consent be increased to 1000, and why not 1 million. topics on which you agree. For example, no one will challenge your priority to ensure a happy childhood for all Bulgarian children. However, we have warned that if you have not reached an agreement on any of the remaining four points found on the issue of tax policy, on the issue of pension reform, on the issue of debt, I am convinced, depending on the development of the crisis in Ukraine and on a common government position on the development of the crisis in Ukraine, you have not agreed on anything. Several key votes have shown that this coalition does not have its own resources to defend policies on these four key issues. You have profanized the DPS vote for both keeping the flat tax and supporting the debt by trying to humiliate the state position of the DPS and reducing it to: the DPS has reached out to the government on these key issues. Undecent, unworthy indeed! Now there is only one aspect of the issue of pension reform on the agenda. The fact that we are already March months after the formation of the cabinet, the fact that you do not have a clear concept precisely because of your ideological differences, because there is no way to reconcile the positions of the very right with the positions of the very left on the issue of pension reform. Now there is a very important vote to be taken. The right thing to do is to resolve this matter as part of the overall pension reform. However, we do not yet have signs that the cabinet is ready with such a pension reform. Perhaps the disputes arising from your ideological differences within the coalition continue. However, you cannot keep us depending on your inability to reach an agreement, and it is evident that today will come to a vote. The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms believes that the real debates are ahead, if at all you propose what commitment you have, a comprehensive concept of pension reform for years to come, as is your commitment. I believe that today's vote of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will probably once again enable you to interpret it as you see fit, but, I repeat, if you do not want the vote of the DPS to cause internal coalition disruptions in the future, take it at last not only for the 90 topics, not for those thousand, one million, but for those four without which there is no clear profile of power. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u57	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. You have an opportunity for lines. I don't see anyone wishing to replicate the statement. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am doing a procedure in the manner of conduct. You cannot, and you are obliged to react when a debate is being made, but it is spoken not on the substance of the respective bill. We've witnessed some statements from the DPS. Once again, by taking advantage of and violating the Rules of the National Assembly, to which you did not react, there was talk here about all sorts of shenanigans, and, notice, about national responsible and state behavior not by any kind, but by the DPS the party that ruined Bulgaria, the party that keeps its electorate in feudalism... [[Loud noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u59	Mr. Bayraktarov...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u60	...she's gonna talk to me about state-of-the-art behavior?! I didn't hear the gentleman before I spoke and discussed the bill of amendments to the Social Security Code, I heard him talking about how important they were and how once again they were ready to slip the government with their respective manipulations. You were obliged to react, so I am making this procedure.. in the future to react to the moment when there is no debate on the substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u61	Mr. Bayraktarov, thank you for your comment. However, I do not accept the criticism of me, I listened very carefully to Mr. Mestan's statement. There was a focus on the current bill. Of course, he's free to make different interpretations. Thanks for the remark. We're moving on. Any further comments? Mr. Kanev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u62	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, the position of the Group of the Reform bloc is that we will not support this proposal, and we will vote against it. Secondly, brief motives beyond ideological differences within the ruling majority, which are not secret and no one is trying to hide them, and in this case I think we should not dramatize them either. In all likelihood, this vote will pass, with the majority not being compact, as we expected from the moment of initial consideration of this bill. Here I want to motivate the position of the Reformation bloc, because again on the pension theme, in relation to the universal pension funds, it has been shown that there are clearly expressed principled ideological differences even between the two centre-right formations in this Parliament, and they were also not much of a surprise. On the topic of social security, the current Parliament is not the government, not the majority, but the National Assembly has three options, three alternatives to behaviour.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u63	There are only two alternatives.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u64	I think we can argue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u65	Please don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u66	The first option is to go and slip along the path of populism, which has always walked hand in hand with the pension theme in Bulgarian politics and the results are present at the same time a very low pension, many people with difficulties to retire, a huge deficit in the pension system, which drags a huge deficit in the Republican budget. What we are facing is the result of the long-standing populist abuse of the pension theme. I would like to clearly highlight a long-standing abuse both on the left and on the right. On the left, the abuse was expressed in systematic support of so-called "Levi" or social measures, which in fact broke down both the revenue part of the pension system and its contributive nature, that is to say, the relationship between the pension contributions of persons and their pension rights after retirement, including the continuous promotion of the various forms of early retirement, which are the main reason for both the weak incomes at the entrance and the low pensions at the exit of the pension system. However, there has also been heavy populism from the right over the years with the continuous reduction of pension contributions and the continuing repetition of the mantra that by reducing the contributions, the revenues will be increased, we have finally come to the point that pension contributions are actually paid by the pensioners themselves by buying bread and by their VAT then receiving their pensions. We have the opportunity to continue along the path of this populism, and then it is quite clear what will happen to the left ones will want, as today, more opportunities for early retirement and further disruption of the relationship between contributions and pension rights, the right-wing ones will never give in to the yota, in the conversation about whether or not contributions to the pension system can be increased in one way or another, or cannot. Of course, in this situation, the DPS will be in a comfortable position to use left-wing and right-wing populism, to take advantage of the fact that it can afford not to work very directly for the benefit of its electorate on such topics and, accordingly, to listen to statements of Mr. Mestan's type, which had no political content on the subject, it was dealing with a very different issue. However, it is possible to go another way that we are trying to go, thanks to the efforts of Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin. This is the way to reach national agreement on the subject of pension insurance, it is a combination of the will, efforts and competence of today's and tomorrow's rulers, as do all countries that have managed to fit their pension system. There's no other way! The pension theme has a 25-30-year horizon within 25-30 years. All ruling parties today will spend a long time in opposition, some parties will disappear, new ones will be created, all today's opposition parties will be for some period of time in power. And if we do not want populism to continue lecturing us and, according to the overwhelming left or right majority in parliament, to change our pension model in 2-3 years, until it is completely spilled, we must go on this topic along the path of national agreement. The proposed bill does not help today to reach agreement in working groups with the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, nothing helps us reach agreement on the basic parameters of the pension model, nothing helps us to leave the area of populism and make the necessary and useful compromises from both the left and the right. There is, however, as I said, a third time. The third time is not to apply visionaryism, not to apply courage either in left-wing reforms or in right-wing reforms, nor in the useful way of national consent, but to tread down the path of the lowest budgetary efficiency, the least resistance. And as we cannot reach an agreement, colleagues, we are basically doing this - we are making palliatives as far as possible in the budget, constantly increasing the budget contribution to the pension system. Most likely, due to the lack of maturity of the debate today, we will go down this path. The proposal will be rejected because there is nowhere to be adopted from the point of view of budget parameters, there will be some positive populist points for those who support it, and not much of the negatives for those who reject it. However, the Bulgarian pension system will not move a single gram forward. For these reasons, I believe that there is nothing responsible, nothing meaningful and nothing useful for the Bulgarian pensioners today, nor for the Bulgarian pensioners tomorrow, nor in the debate, nor in the vote that will follow. Our position will be against it. We regret that we have to go along the path of the least resistance and budgetary efficiency, not in the way of visionaryism and consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u67	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. - What's the line? Here's a line for you, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u68	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Kanev, before I make my remark, I must admit that there was also reasonable criticism in your speech about what was wrong from the left and from the right..............................I will not repeat it again, you have some reason. From then on, I think you should reconsider some of your own because you are a representative of the party, of this prime minister, who introduced this particular pension model, as a result of which the pensions of hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens were greatly devalued. At the very least, when you come out here, as you are the personal continuor of this supervisor, in which there is nothing unworthy, you must say whether you share this policy because of the people who have been affected, it is categorically rejected. So, speaking of some vague and perhaps far-reaching good future, we shouldn't get away from the present. Moreover, cheap political tricks for the good Kalfin and the bad Parvanov will not do you any good, because I am not sure that there is such a deep fault that you can constantly juggle these political issues. And while we are waiting for the famous pension reform, I believe that the most dignified thing today is to adopt, albeit limited, partial solutions, which have been postponed for a long time and which are also in the interest of tens and thousands of Bulgarian citizens. This will not significantly damage the pension system, but will be a very meaningful gesture, not only a real solution. Furthermore, when we discussed the Budget Act, and this is my last argument, we insisted on measures that would increase revenue in the insurance system by increasing the maximum insurance income. Perhaps at least some of the attendees have not forgotten what tricks are being played here. [[the President signals that time has run out]] by representatives of the majority and we had to save the income in the pension insurance budget. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u69	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Second line? I don't see anyone who wants to. The third line also remains open. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u70	Thank you. Regarding the legacy of the pension model, it is true, and we wear it proudly. [[Applause from BSP LB: "Eee!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u71	You gave up earlier.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u72	For 15 years nothing more than evolution and improvement of this pension model has been offered. No matter how cruel the speech attacks were against him; however it was attributed to him that it is because of him that the Bulgarian pensioners are now not, in Bulgaria the pensions are low not because the pension model is bad, but because the economy is not working. That's the reason. Because they're low incomes. We're talking about a cost-covering system where low incomes can't grow high pensions. Low income is not the fault of Bulgaria's pension model. I'll remind you of something more. When the point system was adopted, it was waved as a flag by all opponents of the pension reform for 10 years and blamed for all the evils in Bulgaria. But when the point system was removed, then we saw how good it was and we started to regret it. What you are proposing today could have happened more elegantly and politely for the budget, if you, colleagues from BSP, had offered to return the point system and, believe me, I would have applauded you and supported you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u73	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Next statement? Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u74	Dear colleagues, there is no populism in the proposals we make. On the contrary, there's rude realism. Here the thesis was that early and flexible retirement would damage the budget of the NSI and hence the state budget. On the contrary, the flexible retirement that we are proposing is with a reduction of the pension by 0.4% for each underprivileged month. Actuarial estimates in the medium and long term do not affect the NSI budget, because these people will make a sacrifice to get a lower pension by retiring earlier and getting it for the rest of their lives. But something else is more disturbing for us. You claim that we must agree on pension reform. We'd like that, too! However, at the last meeting of the Labour and Social Policy Committee, Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin said that by the end of March there was no willingness to submit proposals on pension reform. Moreover, he has repeatedly stated that there is no agreement on any of the issues of pension reform either in the ruling majority or in society through employers, trade unions and tripartite councils. It is more worrying that such an agreement, such a reform will not be proposed, and during that time came out official statistics of the National Statistical Institute. Pay attention to her, colleagues! Unemployment in recent months has been growing, the number of unemployed has increased. [[Laughter at RB.]] That is, the general problem of having more workers who contribute more insurance to the budget of the NSI, you also do not solve it as a ruling majority. I quote national statistics, I don't make up data. That is to say, the two major topics on how to stimulate the economy and have more workers to contribute insurance to the NSI, and the other topic on pension reform, you fail to decide. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] You find the easiest way to increase internship and age to reduce the number of pensioners. However, this is in the damage of Bulgarian citizens. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. I hereby announce that your time, including the extended minutes, is over. Replies to Mrs. Ninova's statement? I don't see any lines. For the next speech, Mr. Kenov, who had first asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposals made by Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs were the same ones I submitted between first and second readings in the adoption of the state budget. At second reading, I withdrew these changes with the attitude that there will be a working group that will actually produce a final product for the pension system by 31 March. I am a member of this working group, and I see that in the foreseeable future there is no agreement to be reached there. That is why today we will vote on the proposals of our fellow Members on the left, and we hope that the working group can produce something within 6 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u77	Thank you. Any lines to the statement? I can't see. For the next speech Mr. Siderov, please come to the stand on the topic of the Social Security Code, I hope.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u78	Thank you, yes. First of all, I would say that such a proposal cannot be supported by parties and by MPs who care about how people live. But I immediately link it to the question: why is our proposal, which has been submitted more than a month before, not moving? This is another topic that we can talk about for a long time, but we will not talk about having time to vote, as I see that you want to tilt things towards rest and thus escape the vote. Just a brief replica of colleagues on the right who say they are proud of the pension system. If you are proud of what we call "genocide" on the Bulgarian people, be proud. In fact, make some small memories out there in front of the station. But the truth is, there's no pension money because the economy is ruined. Yeah, but who destroyed the economy?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u79	Kostov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u80	Who destroyed it? Who ruined the Bulgarian industry? Who sold it for pennies?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u81	Who, who?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u82	On this subject, I can give you a lecture at Sunday school, but you know it perfectly well. First of all, let's talk here about a little substantial issues or about a pension reform that is empty of content phrase without stepping on a real, normal for Europe base for pensions, which we have proposed here at one of the points, and it is the minimum rate to be no less than BGN 500. [[Noise and lines.]] I know there's going to be an unhealthy giggle from the millionaire MPs here, but I want to tell you that if we don't go and we don't go to that, the other one's a lie. If you're going to borrow in billions, at least give it to me for pensions. [[(Applause from "Attack" and screams: "Bravo!" Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u83	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. What's the line on the guy who's talking to you? I can't see. Any further comments? Here you are, Mr. Kuchukov of the ABB Parliamentary Group. It's like the attitudes are to go to the vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! For a long time, we listened to arguments about and against. There was logic in all the arguments, and there were meaningful things. In principle, there is a logic in what BSP colleagues offer. The same thing goes into part of our election promises. But there is a discussion at the moment, and every Tuesday, about the changes in the pension system at a broad representation with Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin. I don't see why you have to rush and pass laws on a piece of law that solves a single little problem. That is why our parliamentary group will vote abstention. [[bSP LB loud noise and lines]] Because we don't think it's time to make laws on a piece.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u85	Thank you, Mr. Kuchukov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any further comments? I don't see any further comments. I'm closing the debate on the submitted bill. Please, honourable Members, a first-vote regime for the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, importers Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs submitted on 14 November 2014. Vote 185 MPs: 94 against 76 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Come in for a re-vote procedure, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I request a re-vote procedure. Not all colleagues have been able to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u87	Mr. Kirilov, that's what you're talking about, and I noticed. [[Noise and cheering: "Eeeee!"]] I'm re-voting the submitted bill of amendments to the Social Security Code, first vote. Vote 187 MPs: 93 against 82, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. [[Laughter and single applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u88	Dear Members of the National Assembly, we move to the next point: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO SELECT THE COMMISSION ON BULGER BENEFICIARY POLICY. Dear Members of Parliament, please welcome to the balcony of the plenary hall the international grandmaster Anatoliy Evgenievich Karpov, member of the State Duma of the Russian Federation [[(Deputies are good. (Applause)]] and Roman Ivanovich Hodyukov.. MP from the State Duma of the Russian Federation. [[Reading applause.]] Our guests are here at the invitation of the Parliamentary Group of Ataka. They will be present at the opening of the exhibition The Sport "Executive Bridge between the Peoples" which will be from 11.30 in the Club of the National Representative. Before we announce the holiday, we continue our work by voting on this Project for a decision to elect the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, let us conclude this point, and then you will have the opportunity to participate in the opening of the exhibition. [[Noise and lines.]] I would just like to remind you that at the meeting held on Friday (February 27th) this year, there is a decision with which the composition of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad is from 20 MPs. Names are given in the appropriate order. I'll read them. Parliamentary groups of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and the Reformation bloc have not submitted their applications. Mrs. Dora Yankova is also proposed by BSP LB as a member of the Commission; Mr. Mihail Mikov is the next member; and Mr. Angel Naydenov. From the parliamentary group of GERB: Mrs. Desislava Kostadinova as Vice-President; Mr. Dimitar Krumov Tanev, Katya Nikolaeva Popova, Kiril Andonov Kotev, Krasen Georgiev Krastev, Petar Kostadinov Petrov and Rumen Dinev Zhelev. From the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front: Mr. Julian Angelov is also for Vice-President. Mr. Kazak, come in for a proposal on behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u89	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we propose Mr. Ruchen Riza as a member and Vice-President of the Commission, also Mr. Mehmed Ataman as a member, and Mr. Ilija Iliev as a member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u90	Mr. Zenogorski, please come in for a proposal on behalf of the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! On behalf of the Reformation Block, our proposals are for Mr. Borislav Milanov and Mr. Boris Stanimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u92	Thank you. The proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center is for a member and President of the Commission Mr. Rumen Yonchev. From the Parliamentary Group of the Party of From Alternative for Bulgarian Revival the proposal for a member is Mr. Lachezar Nikiforov. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I suggest to you: "Project" DECISION on the election of the Committee on Policies of Bulgarians Abroad The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2, p. Art. 23, Art. 20, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Committee on Policies of the Bulgarians Abroad consists of 20 MPs, of which: 7 from the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB, 3 from the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria, 3 from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, 2 from the Parliamentary Group of the Reformist Block, 2 from the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, 1 from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center, 1 from the Parliamentary Group of the Party Ataka. 2. He elected as members of the Commission: Dora Yankova, Mihail Mikov, Angel Naydenov, Desislava Kostadinov, Dimitar Tanev, Katya Popova, Kiril Kotev, Krasen Krastev, Peter Petrov, Rumen Zhelev, Julian Angelov, Ruchen Riza, Mehmed Ataman, Iliev, Borislav Milanov, Boris Stanimirov, Rumen Yonchev, Stanislav Stanilov and Lachezar Nikiforov. 3. It chooses from the members by item. 2 Commission guidance in its composition: Chairman Rumen Yonchev; Vice-Presidents: Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova, Dora Yankova, Julian Angelov and Rouschen Riza. Please vote. They voted 124 MPs: for 123, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[Single applause.]] Moving on to the next round of votes: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 2, and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Julian Krastev Angelov as a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Please vote. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. And the next decision: Project! DECISION: amending the composition of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Energy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3, Art. 3. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Rumen Marinov Yonchev as a member of the Foreign Policy Committee. 2. Releases Kancho Yanev Filipov as a member of the Energy Commission. 3. He elected Kancho Yanev Filipov as a member of the Foreign Policy Committee. 4. He elected Georgi Nikolov Nedev as a member of the Energy Commission. Please vote. They voted 111 MPs: 111, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. The next decision: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3, Art. 3. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov as a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Please vote. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion is accepted. The next decision: Project! DECISION: amending the composition of the Committee on Interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3, Art. 3. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Boris Borisov Stanimirov and Borislav Raychov Milanov as members of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and complaints of citizens. 2. He elected Grozdan Spasov Karadjov as a member of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Please vote. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, the final vote on a decision to complete a committee before the break is: Project! DECISION: on the completion of the composition of the Defence Committee The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Doncho Spasov Baxanov as a member of the Defence Committee. Please vote. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. I'm calling a recess until 12:00 p.m. We are continuing with blitzcontrol, where Vice Prime Minister Kuneva will be heard. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u93	Honourable Members, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL BY C.E. 104 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORKING OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. They are ready to participate Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Ms. Meglena Kuneva and Deputy Prime Minister Rumyana Bachvarova. I'd like to remind you of the procedure. It is in accordance with art. No. 104, para. 5 of the Rules, as well as the procedure under art. 93 paragraphs 2 and 3. An opportunity shall be given to the Member of the National Assembly to ask an up-to-date question within two minutes, after which the answer shall be up to three minutes, a reply up to two minutes and a duplicate from the Deputy Prime Minister concerned within two minutes. Questions are asked by the size of the parliamentary groups. First questions are asked by the largest parliamentary group, after which chronologically questions are asked by the smaller parliamentary group. If possible, we do the so-called "Blitzmanship" of two rounds of questions asked. To remind you that according to art. No. 104, para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure may not avail themselves of their right under art. 55, para. 6. In other words, these are statements on behalf of a parliamentary group. Dear colleagues, you have the opportunity to exercise your right to ask questions on current topics to the two Deputy Prime Ministers present. First has the floor representative of the parliamentary group of GERB party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! My question is to Mrs. Kuneva and he is the following. As we all know, one of the main priorities of the government is the adoption of our country into the Schengen area. It should be noted that Bulgaria has been meeting the technical criteria set for many years now, but unfortunately, some countries continue to have doubts about their support for our country's accession, as well as Romania's, by setting additional conditions which, by the way, have not been placed on other member states. In this regard, the government has already made a very serious effort to reach consensus in the European Council on Bulgaria's accession to the Schengen area. The good news in this direction is the support of the Latvian Presidency of the Council for our accession. Of course, there are many more steps that should be taken both nationally and at European level to achieve full integration of our country into the Schengen area. We must bear in mind that Schengen is primarily a security area, and the security environment has changed a lot compared to that of two years ago. Particularly the events since the beginning of this year show the growing threat of extremism on the territory of the European Union. In this regard, Bulgaria's security as a border member should also be a major part of Europe's security. My specific question to you is: what is the government's specific action plan for our country's accession to the Schengen area during the Latvian and Luxembourg Presidency? Are there concrete steps that will be taken towards countries that still have reservations about the membership of Bulgaria and Romania in Schengen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u95	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Mrs. Kuneva, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u96	Since I know that the time is short, I would like this time to start my answer to the question with a direct quote of the Treaty which I have signed for Bulgaria's accession to the European Union and which the honourable National Assembly has ratified. That's what it says in art. 4. The provisions on the Schengen acquis integrated within the European Union are binding and apply in Bulgaria and Romania from the date of accession. Point 2 of the first sentence: The provisions referred to in paragraph 1 shall apply in each of those countries, and only by a Council decision which shall take effect after verification in accordance with the applicable Schengen evaluation procedures, that the necessary conditions for applying all parts of the relevant EU acquis have been complied with in that State. I quote this text on purpose, which I rarely do, because it is more than clear that when, as you yourself said, we have found that we have fulfilled all the requirements, we should simply become part of Schengen. For me, it is a very bad sign that Schengen is being used as a way to put additional pressure on the country to complete its commitments related to anti-corruption and the judiciary. Don't get me wrong, I am more than convinced and I count on the National Assembly to do exactly this to keep under control all types of authorities, to adopt the laws it considers to serve this purpose and to advance us in judicial reform and in the fight for anti-corruption. However, the commitment at the time of Schengen accession to these two pillars of rule of law will not result in a good result either for the European Union or for us, because security is indeed part of the country's most important tasks at the moment. What have we done? We guard 8% of the European Union's external land border and are a factor for stability in Southeast Europe. We have the most advanced technical equipment. In terms of increased migration and refugee pressure, we are effectively combating criminal networks for human smuggling. We provide access to international protection, actively participate in measures and initiatives for a common response at European Union level against threats to terrorism. We have prepared an action plan between the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. Political factors in the European Union demand a new introduction of borders. We must oppose with all the strength and means we have to prevent this from happening, including through Parliament's active work. Although the Cooperation Mechanism is officially not bound to Schengen, as I said at the beginning, this is happening. Although we were able to put it on the agenda of the Presidency, during this spring session the member states will not decide on Bulgaria and Romania's accession to Schengen. I very much hope that, for June, I could take decisive action, especially if I have on my side the arguments on an intensive approach in the implementation of dealing with those weaknesses that we have relating to the rule of law. But I don't want to give too much hope, because you know that only one country is against it, we can't jump the barrier. Unfortunately, these countries are at least four at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u97	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Gazhev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, I fully agree with you When there are rules drawn up, they should not change in the middle of the game, so to speak. All countries must comply with the same rules, not change on the move. It is very important here and all the parliamentary groups will support the government's actions, including through our European families, so as to overcome the misunderstanding by some countries that Bulgaria is already ready for a member of the Schengen area. Moreover, taking into account the growing migratory pressure on all the border countries of the European Union, it is better to work together than for each country to work separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u99	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Would you like a douche? No. Thank you. We continue with the next question to the two deputy prime ministers. From the BSP left Bulgaria is able to ask their question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The issue of Schengen is important, but I believe that, above all, the hottest issue needs to be answered today. Today, the Home Secretary has resigned. We understand from the media that the Prime Minister has accepted his resignation. What happens to the stability of the Bulgarian government or so far we will be with this mantra? I ask these questions first of all worried and concerned because the series of show murders has not resolved yet, because it is warming the weather and we expect a new refugee wave because Minister Vuchkov started an administrative reform, whose destiny to see what it will be, and how will this resignation affect the state of the security sector? My question is naturally to the Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva, who is monitoring these issues. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u101	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. Please come in for an answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u102	Mr. Merdjanov, gentlemen and ladies of Parliament! The motives with which the Home Secretary resigned are personal. There are cases where a person just has to make a decision. And I don't think I should comment on them. However, what I have to comment on is that you will not feel any shaking in the security sector. [[Radio, laughter on the left.]] If you want to ask me specific questions and horizontal security policies, I am ready to answer. Politically, I believe that the parties supporting the majority will have their conversation and will find a solution to the fact that the Interior Minister has taken his own personal direction before that, a personal path. I have always worked with pleasure and with good results with Mr. Vuchkov, but at the moment my efforts will be directed to the system that there is no luft and no uncertainty. I will try to make this happen, especially with regard to horizontal policies, such as Schengen, for example, for what I am responsible for. [[Bravo! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Merdjanov, you have an opportunity for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, of course when there are personal motives, they should not be commented. The issue is, however, slightly different, as different informations and interpretations have already appeared in the media, first of all. Secondly, there is no case in the 25-year-old new history of Bulgaria, the Interior Minister, who is a key figure in every Bulgarian government, after the first 100 days to resign! There's no such case! This speaks exclusively of government instability. This instability can't bother us because, as you all know, today the FBI chief is also visiting. What signs do we give to the outside world, on the one hand? How will we ensure that we deal with the reforms in the Ministry of Interior and all that lies ahead as a challenge? Only about a month and a half ago we witnessed an unimaginable scandal between the Ministry of Interior and between the Ministry of Defence. And so far, we have no solution to that question. With BSP's written declaration left Bulgaria, we proposed that coordination on refugee issues be taken over personally by the Prime Minister. And that wasn't taken into account. We are deeply concerned about the state of the sector "Secrets" - all the more so that the commitments that Mr. Vuchkov made to the parliamentary committee and the plenary in the adoption of the amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act were extremely important, large, burdened with many expectations.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u105	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. Here you go, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u106	Mr. Merdjanov, I'm glad you appreciate the government's work in the face of Interior Minister Vuchkov. This gives me additional reason, together with Mrs. Bachvarova and other colleagues, to find the best way to continue to rely on the support that Mr. Vuchkov, whether in parliamentary quality or otherwise, will continue to provide. It is related to the changes he has proposed, in fact, as is his team. Regarding the situation with refugees, I can tell you that I keep track of what happens there every day. There is no increase in refugee pressure so far. There is still the same level of commitment of migration services and asylum centres. They're preparing and changing the law. Mr. Kalfin and I will also co-chair a council that is related to the social integration of refugees, so I can assure you that in terms of politics there will be no fluctuations in these two areas. Once again, I make a commitment to you to convey your respects to Mr. Vuchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. We are continuing with the next opportunity in a row.. She is part of the Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Are there any who would like to ask an up-to-date question to the Deputy Prime Ministers present in this Chamber? It's like there's no one. We are continuing with the Reformation Block Group. Anybody want to ask any actual questions? Mr. Delchev, I see you're raising your hand.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u108	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! My question is to Mrs Kuneva and he is related to the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, which Bulgaria is expected to take over in the second half of 2018. As we all know, this is a huge amount of work. The preparation for the Presidency, which requires coordination between all institutions in Bulgaria. So my question relates to this: first of all, what steps have been taken, and what steps are we expected to take in the future to prepare this Presidency? Secondly, tell us what are the main challenges facing the Presidency. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u109	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva, you have been asked the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u110	Yeah, two and a half years to go, you could say, to the presidency. This is a great opportunity for the country to be able to compare with other countries, especially the new countries; an opportunity to strengthen our administrative capacity further. The Presidency will come and go, but what will remain as learned by the Bulgarian administration and by all of us as an experience is something worth talking about. In fact, this is the most appreciated by the countries that have already gone through this exercise, the Presidency. Everyone says what's left is actually the administrative capacity behind it. First of all, where are we with the preparations? A coordination mechanism for preparation has been established. 2015 will be critical for carrying out analysis of the needs of human resources. In six months, a Presidency conducts an average of about 450 negotiation meetings. We need an extremely good team. At this stage, a first draft of a plan was drawn up, which was distributed last week to the ministries for comments. A questionnaire has also been prepared on the state of administration. Five thematic working groups have been created: "Administrative capacity", "Administrative capacity" and "Administrative capacity" have been created, "Communications" "Strategic strategy", "Cultural program", "Financials and public procurements", "Priorities and Program of the Presidency." No one objected to these proposed five groups. For now, they are, so to speak, the main, bearing structure. Money? It's a very important subject. In the budget for this year there is no provision for the Presidency, but Mrs. Bachvarova through the Administrative Program, I, as far as I can through communication opportunities, will try to do with what we have at the moment, the maximum! Particularly targeted revenues will be to prepare civil servants, training, courses. Two are the institutes that will take over them. One is the Public Administration. The other is the Diplomatic Institute. But I will insist in the next budget to provide funds, because whatever building is chosen, whatever form of security assurance, without public procurement, there is no way to pass to make modernizations. So we will try to be with as little money as possible and the greatest possible result.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. There's a word for a line, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u112	My line is short and it is in the form of a question again: do we understand that the biggest challenge is the financial issue, or is there other major administrative problems?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u113	Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u114	No, probably the financial side of the issue is not the biggest challenge, but without it it can not. I realize that I have little talk about what will be the priorities of our Presidency. We are together with Estonia and Britain if Britain decides to stay in the European Union because this is after its referendum. The situation is not easy to work in such uncertainty. The good news for us is that we are at the end of the cycle of the European Commission and the European Parliament, which means that Bulgaria will have a lot of work. That's always good news. This means that we will have to finish most of the files that have developed over the years. They will not be anything different from what the Commission has already stated in its priorities and what the Council should do. After all, we could tilt the scales. If, for example, we want in our Presidency to pay more attention to technology, the digital economy or the opposite of Europe or Horizon 2020, this will be the moment when we can show that besides infrastructure we are interested in scientific achievements and show what the Bulgarians are capable of. However, we will talk about the priorities from the beginning of next year after we have completed our consultations with Britain and Estonia. It will not be anything beyond the Commission's five-year priorities, but we can tilt the scales.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. We continue with the next parliamentary group, the Patriotic Front. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u116	Dear ladies, Deputy Prime Ministers, Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My question relates to the decision of the National Assembly adopted on 21 January this year to amend the Public Procurement Act relating to the construction of security facilities along our border with Turkey. I understand your amazement, perhaps I should read the question in your eyes "Why are you in such a hurry, only one month has passed?" In this regard, my question is: for this past month and a few days, what is realized in the implementation of this bill? First of all, has a company or companies been designated to continue the implementation of the protective facility? Second, how many meters are built in this period...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u117	Mr. Simeonov, forgive me for interrupting you, but let me remind you that you can ask about the general policy of the government, and the provision of detailed data could very hardly be given. I remind you of that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u118	I take my feet back, but what is the view of the Council of Ministers regarding the construction of the security facility? How do you see it in the near future as realization? Is it possible and do you plan to end this by the end of spring? In my opinion, these are quite general questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u119	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Here you are, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u120	Mr. Simeonov, thank you. Such questions have a disciplinary character on the executive authority, and I believe that they should be asked regularly so that we do not delay. I, myself, would like this matter to end quickly, not just begin. Border guard. Thank you for your support back then. What's been done so far? Instructions for interaction between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior have been changed. They are on public discussion on the sites of the two ministries at the moment. The Ministry of Defence informed the Ministry of Interior about opportunities to provide the requested equipment and personnel. The Ministry of Defence has proposed a review and sent a list to the State Agency for Refugees to sites with no need. Two centers will be selected in southern Bulgaria. What you're asking about is the impeding engineering facility. A project of an output assignment for the temporary facility is prepared for construction, geodesy, safety plan and fire safety. Secondly, given some shortcomings in the old facility, there are adjustments in the current assignment in order to improve its obstruction. Third, meetings were held with the district managers of Haskovo, Yambol and Burgas, where the organization for the design and construction of the facility was discussed. You have adopted amendments to the Law, according to which there is no need for public procurement and will significantly reduce the time. I think there should be transparency in spending funds. I expect you to exercise control in this direction. There's nothing more I can report to you today.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u121	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u122	Dear ladies, Deputy Prime Ministers, Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm not satisfied with the answer. Indeed, one month is not a very long period of time, but I think that a decision should have been made so far regarding the determination of the companies, in parallel with the other process that goes on to coordinate with the district governments, at least for the reason that, I repeat, for the first time in this 25-year history of the National Assembly, a bill was adopted 24 hours after its entry. This only became possible thanks to the fact that almost all the political forces were united around the necessity of this Bill. In this regard, I would like to point out to you that this issue is at stake in the Patriot Front Programme. We will continue to ask it and demand the urgent construction of the protective engineering facility, as in the spring, as you know, return not only the migratory birds, but also the plague of adventurers, fugitives and all others, and some small part of refugees. So the protection of the territory of Bulgaria is a sacred duty not only of the National Assembly, but also of the government of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u123	Thanks for the tunic, Mr. Simeonov. Next in a row, who have the opportunity to ask a question, are from the group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. Does anyone wish to take advantage of their right? I don't see anyone who wants to. Next in line is the Parliamentary Group of the Party "Attack." I don't see any of their representatives in the room. We continue with Alternative for Bulgarian Revival. And that's where we go without asking a question. Then are the non-members of a parliamentary group of MPs. Here you go, Mr. Enchev. You have two minutes to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u124	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! My question to Mrs. Meglena Kuneva is: Mrs. Kuneva, as you directly monitor the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defense, at least such a portfolio you have, my question has been specific since yesterday: since yesterday the commander of 173 Air Transport Brigade regiment. Foster of the United States said, I quote, "In the framework of the "Atlantic toughness" exercises in Bulgaria and Romania, the US will deploy the brigade and immediately, a few hours later, Gen. Hodges, who is the head of the US Land Forces in Europe, explained: Think of the Atlantic toughness as a continuous year-round series of exercises from Estonia to Bulgaria. I ask you: will this be permanently based forces on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria or temporary residents? What does the statement of General Hodges mean about the continuous series of teachings? On this occasion, I would like to remind you that in 2006 an Agreement between the United States and Bulgaria was concluded for cooperation in the field of defence and four military bases were given to the village of Novo, Count Ignatievo, Bezmer, Aytos, where the warehouses are. My question is: will this brigade be in one of these four military bases, or will it be in a new place? If it is in a new place, shouldn't this go through the National Assembly? Second piece of news. An official announcement from the Ministry of Defence last night that the largest US military transport plane C-5 will be able to land from September at Bezmer Airport, which is why the US has invested nearly 30 million. Euros in reconstruction. The aim is to expand the runway and build a stand for transport planes, whereas C-5.. Galaxy is a strategic aircraft used for overseas flights up to 10,000. km. My question is: first, are you informed and if you are informed, what information will you give to Parliament and the Bulgarian people? Isn't this involvement in military action either in terms of Ukraine or in terms of...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u125	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u126	Take it easy!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u127	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u128	Thank you. Of course, I'll tell you what you're interested in, though, without replacing the Secretary of Defense. Once again, I will bring your knowledge that I will not accept the parade on May 6th. That's why there's a Secretary of Defense. Specifically, your question as far as it affects my coordination functions. First of all, we can certainly say that a NATO coordination centre will be established in Sofia, where 38 people will work. I mean, we're not talking about a base at all, we're not talking about deployment of equipment. For this year, there are joint exercises planned for me to answer your question directly with our Alliance allies more than any other time. That's right! For this purpose, armored equipment will be located, used within a specific exercise, after which it will be brought out of Bulgaria. Scientists are there, they're going to be held. Bulgaria is a NATO member, fortunately! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Enchev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u130	Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I understand your inconvenience, as you are obviously as informed as we are. Apparently, yesterday you learned from the media about this decision by General Hodges. However, you must answer the most important question, and you refuse to answer it: Bezmer Airport, in which, according to an official announcement from the Ministry of Defence, nearly 30 million have been invested. dollars to accept strategic bombers of the United States of America, capable of carrying nuclear weapons. Shouldn't that be agreed in the Bulgarian Parliament? [[GERB lines.]] I see Admiral Manushev reacted. He might want to make a statement about it. Planes that have range of 6 to 10,000. Miles, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, what kind of planes are they? Tactical or strategic aviation? Isn't that grounds for concern? In the framework of the bilateral Agreement between the States and Bulgaria is the landing, spoken in the sole language, of such air and military armada in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria? Is this not contrary to the Agreement between the States and Bulgaria, which expires exactly one year from now?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u131	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Mrs. Kuneva, would you like a duplicate? Thank you. We'll continue with the following questions. Are there any members of the GERB Parliamentary Group? You won't ask a second question. BSP left Bulgaria Mr. Bojinov, you are on the move. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies Deputy Prime Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria! In front of me is the Crime Prevention Strategy 2012 - 2020 as well as the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Crime Prevention Strategy. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, by the end of this month you should submit to the Council of Ministers a draft of the Anti-Corruption Strategy. An Interdepartmental group has been established to analyse the anti-corruption policies in Bulgaria and to propose guidelines for prevention and countering corruption. The report you have recently examined in the Council of Ministers points out as weaknesses so far the lack of an institution and a mechanism for overall coordination and control of anti-corruption policies and measures. Therefore, in order to overcome the gaps that have been allowed so far, in the preparation of this Strategy you are heading towards the creation of a system of anti-corruption bodies and the implementation of policies to prevent corruption through preventive control of the existence of corruption risks. My question is: where do you see from the current work the risk of corruption risk? It is usually inherent in the circles of power. Corruption risk is in people with power. The particular, big problem of Bulgaria is that public finances are being implemented according to perfect schemes without achieving socially important results. Do you analyze this problem and do you have the strength to fight yourself as people who exercise power?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u133	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Come in for an answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u134	The facts of the report. There is no clear institution responsible for implementation. There are no specific and similar action plans linked to deadlines, indicators and responsible institutions. Lack of a mechanism for monitoring and evaluating strategies and their implementation. There are not enough independent institutions without capacity as power and as human potential. We need clear priorities. There is no coordination between them, opaque and open to assess their effectiveness. There are gaps in the institutional framework. These are the conclusions of the report, which I have submitted with complete honesty and without saving anyone the truth on any occasion. You yourself said that this was a review of strategies that have been for a decade. The European Commission has recommended and, in my opinion, it is right to have not only one and a new body necessarily, but a body that unites. Whether it will be new or will be with emphasis and weight on some of the existing ones, this is a second question. I personally believe that this should be an authority in its fullness. Some of the authorities could be associated as analytical units with this body, which will be created either brand new or combined with something that has already been achieved. The strategy is very important. I'll tell you what measures we have planned so far. Creating integrity systems, integrity of civil servants, increasing the independence and capacity of inspectorates, are very weak at the moment, reforming declarations of conflict of interest, incompatibility and property status, turning a commission into the Agency or, as we will call it, a conflict of interest, in a single anti-corruption body, verification functions of declarations of conflict of interest and property declarations of persons holding senior state posts. the person, including powers of tax and bank secrecy and increasing its capacity; the establishment of a specialized unit for investigating high-level corruption between the SANS, the Ministry of Interior and the Prosecutor's Office. I would like to say at this high forum that by the end of March, my colleagues from the Romanian Agency for integrity will be invited to Bulgaria. It seems to me that at this point a really serious discussion can be translated. They have results in the fight against corruption, especially the action of their single body. I think we can exchange information and do something effective that will restore Bulgaria's reputation. It is a very difficult situation with the lack of results with regard to the fight against corruption. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We've had new organs, huge hopes have been given to BORKOR, if you remember. No results. So the question is not just to be new, but to be a working organ and to have people who are brave and fearless there.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. Here's a line for you, Mr. Bojinov. I think you've been answered, specifically, and far-fetched.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, the conclusions of the report and what you have said is an alarming finding so that I do not say tragic as results in the fight against corruption. But I asked you not what system, what organs you would create, but whether there was a will to fight yourself. Those who have the power, borrow from outside or invent schemes under which the public finances, material assets and natural resources of Bulgaria are absorbed without achieving the socially significant and needed results of society. This can be found in the implementation of operational programs. I'll give you an example. The design of the Sofia Technology Park is a brilliant scheme for the absorption of hundreds of millions of public assets, 100 million of the company, which will not give birth to either commercial, scientific or innovative breakthroughs for the Bulgarian economy, but will become a case from which certain companies will legally receive this money and the result for the society will not be, and there is no fault and no authorities will find it. From innovation to public money for waste management, everything in Bulgaria is covered by schemes to absorb money and not reach things.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u137	Who made these schematics?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u138	And today the resignation of the Minister of Interior is this struggle between you yourselves will there be a course towards such self-cleaning or manking a fight against corruption. That's the big question, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u139	The two minutes are up. Thank you. The right to question is the DPS Parliamentary Group. I don't see any wishes on their part. For the second question, the block. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, ladies Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is to Mrs. Kuneva and to some extent also concerns the Anti-Corruption Strategy, because for us from the Reformation Block, I also think of colleagues from the ruling majority, this is one of the main priorities, along with judicial reform, of course, and reforms in the security sector. My question concerns the unit that was announced last week that it will be created to the prosecution, which will also include participants from the SANS and the Ministry of Interior, and will be aimed precisely at effective implementation of actions to combat corruption on the high levels of power. I would like to ask Mrs. Kuneva whether an effective mechanism for the interaction between the executive and the prosecutor's office in this respect is also envisaged in so far as, in order for this unit to be effective and this activity is obviously necessary, such interaction and cooperation should not be left solely to the disposal and direct management of the prosecutor's office if we really want to see effective results from his work and, above all, rapid results, that is to say, it is necessary to mobilise a very serious public and institutional resource in order for this to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u141	Thank you to Mr. Slavov. Mrs. Kuneva, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u142	Mr. Slavov, you are right that a specialized task force has been established to investigate high-level corruption. The idea is to be DANS, the Ministry of Interior and the prosecution, based on an agreement. Political will has come to this result that I do not want to share with you. We hope that there will be speed precisely because neither legislative changes nor constitutional changes are needed, and we will be able to proceed immediately to work. That is, we are using the existing experience and I hope that we will develop it with an emphasis on the development of... Above all, high corruption and more people, let us start with 30-40 people and reach in a year or two around 100 people, which is comparable with similar units in other Eastern European countries. I know that we are all impressed with the results that neighbouring Romania has in this area. The fact is that in their prosecutor's office there are sent by the Ministry of Interior with a mandate of 6 years to work together with the prosecutor's office. We hope that with this agreement we will achieve it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. Mr. Slavov? You don't have a line. We move on to the next parliamentary group, the Patriotic Front. Here you go, Mr. Julian Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u144	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! My question is that in the last two and a half years the Bulgarians from the old communities abroad have been prevented from receiving certificates of Bulgarian origin, as well as Bulgarian identity documents, a practice which was initiated by the Oresharski cabinet, practice and bad practices by the previous government, which today's government denies. But unfortunately we do not see that these 4 months have changed anything in good direction in support of the Bulgarians abroad. This vicious practice by the Oresharski government continues to this day. Without changing any Bulgarian law, the practice of the Bulgarian state was changed to certify the Bulgarian origins of Bulgarians abroad. I am talking specifically about the old Bulgarian communities, which are in Macedonia, Moldova, Albania, Serbia, Ukraine, Romania and other countries. My question to you is: has the Bulgarian government done anything in the last 4 months to ease the regime for obtaining certificates of Bulgarian origin and for obtaining Bulgarian citizenship, because what we see for more than two and a half years is how tens of thousands of Bulgarians abroad were stopped their files and did not issue them certificates of Bulgarian origin? So this is my question.. has it been changed so as to relieve this regime, which is guaranteed, I repeat, by the Bulgarian Constitution and by the Bulgarian Citizenship Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u145	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u146	Mr. Angelov, I think I should answer you very specifically on the basis of two cases which I was informed about and which, I suppose, have given rise to your question. One of them is related to the Bulgarian Cultural Club in Skopje and the Cultural Information and Information Center, deleted from the register of the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad on February 12th. I have requested information about the case and the reasons that have been highlighted are that the two organisations do not meet the conditions. As you know, there was an inspection of the Inspectorate and the Prosecutor's Office in the autumn, which led to the adoption of regulations. No, there is no new law, but there are rules because there have been many established violations. These organizations do not meet the conditions of the new Rules of Recognition and the procedure for keeping the register of Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria from 16 September 2014. They were asked to re-registered in November, which did not happen. That's the law, as you know, strict law, but law. The state agency for Bulgarians abroad is obliged to respect it whether it likes it or not. There's not a single organization in the register right now. Deleting from the register does not mean closing the organizations or something like that, it only stops them from issuing certificates of Bulgarian origin, so the only authority that can do so is the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad. With regard to one organisation, there were also doubts about false documents, they are checked by the authorities and further information will be announced on the case. The other organisation has been found to have been issued without a legal basis. supplied to the authorities, documents of origin. Separately, I leave the issue that certificates have been issued to Albanians and Kosovars, for which there is not enough evidence that they are Bulgarian people. The receipts were also handed over to the authorities for verification. You understand that in the current situation, especially with the Islamic State and foreign fighters, the question of which people and why they receive Bulgarian citizenship is a matter of national security. I intend to fully review the issue of issuing certificates and I will enjoy your cooperation in this direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Angelov, you have two minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u148	My question was a little different. It is related to the Bulgarian institutions what they do and not to the Bulgarian organizations abroad, although I am very well aware of the Bulgarian organizations abroad. The fact that you pointed out that there is no recognised organisation by the Agency for Bulgarians abroad, which is recognised by a Bulgarian institution, shows how Bulgarian institutions work, that is, they do nothing. Why is there no Bulgarian organisation abroad recognised by the Agency for Bulgarians abroad? We are not talking about Macedonia, we are not talking about Albania, we are not talking about the Western outskirts in Serbia, let us see in Spain, somewhere else, for example in Greece, Romania. So what does this Agency do?! I repeat, my question was related to the Bulgarian institutions. I am interested in what the Agency for Bulgarians is doing abroad and why are not the certificates of the Agency itself, which have been issued in the last 15 years? Currently, Bulgarian institutions do not recognise the old certificates of origin without any solution without any change in the law? In other words, every Bulgarian in Macedonia, who three years ago received from the Agency a certificate of Bulgarian origin, has not been deleted and has not been rejected by any act, and at the moment this certificate is invalid. For what reason?! Can Bulgarian institutions not recognise documents from other Bulgarian institutions?! That's just impossible. When we talk about Bulgarians abroad, I must remind you that there is a strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers - I think that more than two years ago, which we want to see here in the Chamber - to be discussed, voted on and on the basis of it the Bulgarian institutions to move. You say about the Rules of Procedure these Rules are not for the implementation of the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria, Mrs. Kuneva. It's some kind of agency internal code. Rules for the implementation of the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria since 2000 this law has not been adopted yet, there are no rules made by the Council of Ministers. That is the truth and that is the problem, that is, 15 years Bulgarian governments cannot adopt the Rules for Bulgarians abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u149	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u150	Mr. Angelov, very recently the Prime Minister said that a Coordination Centre is being set up to assist our compatriots in Ukraine, literally within the past month, so as you can see, there is a state policy in this regard. Secondly, the Agency for Bulgarians abroad is not the one who gives citizenship. It's a complex factual composition. You can't finish the staff without the Ministry of Justice's involvement. In this sense, the Ministry of Justice does not simply register the applications, but must take an opinion....................................................................................... With regard to the Rules of Application of the Law. Not every law needs rules. This must be explicitly mentioned in the Transitional and Final Provisions, where it is said that there must be rules. If this is explicitly not stated, the law shall be applied directly, and otherwise, regulations or instructions for their application may be applied to individual texts thereof. I understand and share your concern. Here you are, we will talk, I will hear you, and if you help us make the steps and the action plan to close the gaps in this so important topic together with the Foreign Ministry and the Ministry of Justice, I would be very happy. You're welcome to discuss this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. That concludes the questions on the Patriotic Front. We are moving on to the next parliamentary group - Bulgarian Democratic Center. Here you go, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! From our group we have never hidden our attitude towards the Bulgarian business and the desire to develop it normally, to function normally and most importantly the state administration to be in favor of the business. On this occasion, my question is to the Vice-President of Coalition Policy and Government Administration. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, according to our data, there are about 1 million employed in the private sector in Bulgaria. $700,000. people, and the state and municipal administration is about 560 thousand. people, or one administrator for three employed in the private sector. This seems unfair to us. In this direction are my questions which are united precisely by our desire for the administration to be in favor of business. Is there an administrative reform, and if so, what direction is it developing? Does it reduce the administration in order to be in the comfort of business? How many and which licenses and licenses have dropped out or are scheduled to drop out? At what stage is the preparation for the introduction of the so-called government of power, which, in our view, will undoubtedly reduce the risk and the so-called corruption pressure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u153	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Mrs. Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u154	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Dear Mr. Haytov, thank you for this question. It is extremely important and with the opportunity to present an answer on it, I hope to impose a more constructive tone on which there is no political speculation about current events today. Our vision of the development of administrative reform is reflected in the roadmap of administrative reform 2015 "2020," which was adopted almost immediately after our inauguration. On the basis of this plan, the Operational Programme was developed, which was approved by the European Commission last week. This is extremely good news, which in the day's bad news seems to have remained in the shadows, that is, we have the opportunity to realize everything we have planned and recorded in our road map from now on. Our view of administrative reform is linked to improving the functionality of the administration and optimizing structures by introducing the so-called shared services. That is, our ambition is to modernise the administration and not to focus exclusively on its numbers. It is naturally an indicator of the state, but it seems to me that optimizing the numbers is also my personal ambition, should come only once we are aware of the functional optimization. Therefore, the directions in which we work and will work from here on are: carrying out a functional analysis of the administration, introducing the system for maintaining and developing quality management and implementation, which I hope will soon be able to carry out, of an impact assessment. All these measures will also indirectly affect the burden the administration has on citizens and businesses. Administrative reform cannot be implemented without the implementation of e-government, but it is the means in which we will modernise the administration. Therefore, the two processes are going parallel at this time and have certain special axes in the new good governance programme, which will be very precisely coordinated to monitor the consistency of each of these actions. The tendency to reduce the number of administration, because this is one of the most discussed topics when it comes to state administration, is to reduce this number. Towards the end of last month, the procedure set by the Ministry of Finance to optimize wage costs in the various ministries, executives and secondary officers by budget means has been completed. The results will be discussed at the end of the week at another Council for Administrative Reform, but I expect as a result of these measures the number to be reduced significantly in an impressive share. In terms of business, direct and indirect measures. All that I mentioned, in my opinion, are indirect measures that can have an extremely strong impact on reducing the administrative burden of optimizing administrative structures, functional optimization, implementation of impact assessment. Currently there are around 900 licensing regimes, and even in 2012, a Plan to reduce the regulatory burden of business, which contains 247 measures, has been adopted. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There is a list of measures to be taken, and they are all related to legislative proposals that are currently being developed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. I took the liberty of giving you a little more time for the answer to be comprehensive. Mr. Haytov, come in. You have two minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I do claim to have an idea of the number of licensing regimes and licenses, but 900 sounds startling. Nine hundred sounds scary! I am convinced and I hope that what you have said in plenary and those actions that you will take to ease and facilitate the work of business as a whole will lead to the desired and sought effect of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u157	Thank you to Mr. Haytov. Mrs. Bachvarova, would you like a coat? No. Thank you. We are moving on to the next parliamentary group of Ataka. Is there anyone in the parliamentary group in the room? They're probably not interested in questions about the deputy prime ministers. The next parliamentary group is ABB. Yeah, here are the coworkers, but no questions asked. We move on to non-members in other parliamentary groups. I see one of them. Questions? No questions asked. With that, the blitz control point is over. To thank Mrs. Bachvarova and Mrs. Kuneva for their participation and to wish them a pleasant job.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u158	We continue with the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO PUT THE MORATORIUM ON THE EXPORT OF UNORDED (ROB) TRIVESINA, No 554-02-7, PRESSED BY THE PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE KRISIMIR KARAKACHANOV AND A GROUP OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES OF 11 FEVRUAR 2015 PROJECT OF A DECISION ON THE SPREAT OF THE NoMENCLATURE CODES 440110, 440320, 440391, 440392 and 440399 WITH REGARD TO THE COMMITTED NOMENCLATURE UNDER A REGULATION (EU) No 1101/2014 OF THE COMMISSION OF 16 OCTOMBER 2014 TO CHANGE ANNEX I TO REGULATION (EEC) No 2658/87 OF THE COUNCIL ON THE TARIFF AND THE'TARIPHICAL NOMENCLATURE AND THE COMMON CUSTOMS TARIFFA (OJ L 312/1 OF 31 October 2014), No 554-02-8, implemented by the People's REPRESENTATIVE TSveta Karayancheva and the People's REPRESENTATIVE Group of 12 FEVRUARI 2015; PROJECT OF A DECISION TO INTRODUCE MORATORIUM ON THE EXPORT OF UNEMPLOYED TRAVELS, No 554-02-17, INFECTED BY THE PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE WOLF WITH LEADER AND GROUP OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES OF 24 FEVRUAR 2015 The report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food will introduce us to her chairman Mr. Rumen Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u159	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on three draft decisions Draft decision imposing a moratorium on exports of raw wood, No 554-02-7, submitted by the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs on 11 February 2015. Draft Decision on the suspension of exports and dispatches of goods falling within codes 440110, 440320, 440391, 440392 and 440399 under Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1101/2014 of 16 October 2014 amending Annex I to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the Common Customs Tariff (OJ L 312/1 of 31 October 2014).), No 554-02-8, submitted by the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs on 12 February 2015; Draft Decision imposing a moratorium on exports of raw wood, No 554-02-17, submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 24 February 2015. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 26 February 2015, which continued the debate on the projects tabled by the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs and by the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs, which began at a meeting held on 24 February, and examined the project submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. In the work of the committee took part from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food "Virginia Hubcheva "Director of the Forest Sector Development" and Magdalena Dakova "Director of the Directorate of Administrative and Legal Service." From the Executive Agency for Forests toni Krastev Executive Director, Valentin Chambov Head of Department of the Directorate of Commercial Companies and State Participation.Daniela Angelova and Chief Legal Consult at the Directorate of Legal-Administrative Activities and Human Resources. At the beginning of the discussion, the public representative Rumen Hristov said he has filed a declaration of conflict of interest and will not participate in the vote. With the project submitted by the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs, the National Assembly is proposed to assign the Minister of Agriculture and Food to prohibit for a period of three months from 6 April 2015, exports of raw wood of all categories and wood for firewood. The Minister should start negotiations with the representatives of the woodworking, furniture and paper industry for the conclusion of long-term framework contracts for guaranteed supply of roundwood by the end of 2015. Until the end of the ban, the Minister of Agriculture and Food and the Minister of Finance, together with representatives of the industry organisations, should introduce a regime for the export of raw wood and adopt a definition of the term In addition, the Executive Agency for Forests and Public Forest Enterprises is obliged to establish a regulatory regime that prevents wood from being wasted and to ensure its proper separation and sorting as required by the BDS. The implementation control, regardless of the ownership of forests and the way wood is devoted to logging companies, shall be entrusted to the Forest Executive Agency and to state forest enterprises. The draft submitted by the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs proposed the National Assembly with its decision to stop the exports and dispatches of raw timber of certain species for a period of three months and legislative changes relating to the modification of the regime of their sale, export and dispatch should be adopted within the same period. With the project submitted by the MP Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, the National Assembly is proposed to order the government to take measures to impose a moratorium on exports of raw wood. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food supports the first two projects, the third has not received an opinion. In the discussions held, it was almost unanimous that there is a problem with illegal logging, which calls for urgent measures to be taken. It has been pointed out that, under a long-term ban, it could lead to unpredictable consequences for the sector and that the purpose of the temporary ban on exports and dispatches of wood is to enable both relevant legislative initiatives to regulate its sale and export and organisational measures to improve control and limit illegal activities in forest areas to ensure the conservation of this national resource. In the light of the above, the MPs have united around the decision to support all three projects in principle and to propose to the National Assembly an amendment that reflects as wide as possible their meaning, pointing out that there is a very short time to initiate the relevant legislative changes. Following the debates held: 1. With 13 votes in favour, 1 vote in favour of the Union and 2 votes abstentioned, the Committee on Agriculture and Food supports, in principle, the draft decision on the imposition of a moratorium on exports of raw wood, No 554-02-7, submitted by Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs on 11 February 2015; 2. With 15 votes in favour, 1 vote in favour and no reservations, the Commission for Agriculture and Food supports, in principle, the draft decision on the suspension of exports and dispatches of goods falling within codes 440110, 440320, 440391, 440392 and 440399 under the Combined Nomenclature, pursuant to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1101/2014 of 16 October 2014 amending Annex I to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the Common Customs Tariff (OJ L 312/1 of 31 October 2014.), No 554-02-8, submitted by Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs on 12 February 2015; 3. With 15 votes in favour, 1 vote in opposition and no abstentions, the Agriculture and Food Commission supports in principle a draft decision imposing a moratorium on exports of raw wood, No 554-02-17, submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 24 February 2015. The Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 14 votes........ 1 vote................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Project! DECISION suspending exports and dispatches of goods falling within codes 440110, 440320, 440391, 440392 and 440399 under Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1101/2014 of 16 October 2014 amending Annex I to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the Common Customs Tariff (OJ L 312/1 of 31 October 2014) The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. It shall be prohibited, for a period of three months, to dispatch raw wood (goods of codes 440110, 440320, 440391, 440392 and 440399 under the Combined Nomenclature, pursuant to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1101/2014 of 16 October 2014 amending Annex I to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the Common Customs Tariff (OJ L 312/1 of 31 October 2014). 2. Obliges the Minister of Agriculture and Food on the grounds of art. 126, para. 6 of the Forest Act to issue an order for the prohibition of exports of raw wood (goods with codes 440110, 440320, 440391, 440392 and 440399 under the Combined Nomenclature, pursuant to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1101/2014 of 16 October 2014 amending Annex I to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the Common Customs Tariff (OJ L 312/1 of 31 October 2014) for a period of three months. 3. In terms of t. 1 and 2 legislative changes and changes to regulations relating to improving control of activities in forest areas and countering illegal logging shall be initiated. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on 6 April 2015 and shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u160	Thank you. On behalf of the importers? Here you are, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u161	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The introduction by GERB's parliamentary group is dictated by the fact that there were very serious signals about problems with the exports of raw wood and illegal logging. It is the impression that the offices do not do their job and practically the Bulgarian forest is unprotected. Over the years, the attitude towards the Bulgarian forest and the illegal logging has allowed for the illegal scheme 19:45. You all know the numbers given to the relevant political parties. The government's programme sets out precisely a point that concerns the fight against illegal logging and exports of raw wood. Firstly, in our proposal we give a three-month period to the Minister of Agriculture to draw up a ban under art. 126, para. 6 for exports of all kinds of wood and for the dispatch of raw wood, as codified by the National Statistical Institute. This gives fullness to our proposal because these codes cover all possible types of raw wood. We also suggest sending itself to enter as terminology in this draft decision because you know that the shipment is intra-Community supplies. They allow EU countries to enter raw wood in third countries, such as Turkey. During the three months of ban, the relevant changes to the Forest Act and the Landing Ordinance will be made. Changes in parallel with the events adopted by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food over the past four months have an even more serious effect than the ban and the work in forestry enterprises. The Moratorium should, in turn, help balance the internal market for technological wood used by the factories and its processing, because it will remain more technological wood, which will be able to fill with raw materials enterprises and therefore increase the employment of workers in this area. Rules should also be made to stimulate people engaged in such processing who have production capacities, not others who have hollow companies and are engaged only in the resale of wood. In the implementation of this Project for a solution, of course, it will become a solution, we have bet on the fact that everyone in the chain should be involved........................................................................................... The other important thing that has happened in the Commission, and I am genuinely pleased that we have agreed with colleagues, is on the basis of the three projects to make a joint project on which to unite. What Hristov read is a good start to do everything possible to limit illegal logging and exports of raw wood. It is important to do so, and I am convinced that during these three months, the legislative changes on which we are currently working together with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food will result in the necessary effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. From the other importers? Mr. Karakachanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u163	Dear colleagues, we are witnessing unprecedented public discontent with the floods. Many of the citizens of Bulgaria associate these floods with illegal logging. For the reason that Bulgaria is in one of the last places on forest roads in Europe, the logging is concentrated mainly around the settlements. From there, not without reason, Bulgarian citizens believe that the floods that flooded them and the damage they suffered were due to illegal logging. The main influx of raw wood exports is mainly to Turkey and Greece, countries that have a huge shortage of raw wood. For 2014 only 900 thousand were exported. Cube. M raw round wood and about 1 million t tech splints for Turkey, which, as we all know, is not a member of the European Union. Bulgaria does not have a national policy based on responsible marketing studies about the possibility of realization of processed wood and the most advantageous external markets. At the moment, this is done in a piece by private entrepreneurs who acquire wood mainly from state forests. The State Forest Authority in the face of state-owned enterprises and control bodies of the Forestry Executive Agency of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has nothing to do with this problem. This creates prerequisites for speculative and smuggling transactions with this strategic raw material. According to official European data, 2 million 400,000. Cuica is the illegal logging in Bulgaria. If we clean up elementaryly at 50 leva. Cubic, that's 120 million. BGN, which goes somewhere in the pockets without taxes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u164	A quarter of the entire income.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u165	That's right, that's right, a quarter of the entire income. There's been a gray criminal economy in the forest sector for a long time. The so-called Gypsy fellers are taken out of low-skilled and irresponsible brigades employed by privileged logging companies and primary wood processing. It is practical not to split the round wood by categories and assortment according to the Bulgarian state standard of temporary storage, and in most cases at a two meters from the clearing because there is no specialized equipment for excavation. The problem with illegal wood, with exports of raw wood is a problem that has been standing for years before the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, as well as part of the debate between ecologists, advocates of the Bulgarian forest and also Bulgarian processing enterprises. We come to the paradox that without planning things, priority is given to the exports of wood, and very often in the form of firewood logs come out raw round wood, which, as you can see, is at very different prices. This damages the budget, damages the forest fund in Bulgaria and damages to a large extent Bulgarian processing companies. It is logical and normal to first satisfy the needs of the Bulgarian wood processing enterprises, the cellulose industry, the part of the Bulgarian business that uses timber in its various types, and only then to open the border for absolutely uncontrolled exports. For this reason, the Patriotic Front last month submitted a draft decision consisting of four points. First, on the basis of the Forest Act, Section IV "Exports and imports of raw timber and wild mushrooms" art. 126, para. 6 entrusts the Minister of Agriculture and Food with an order to prohibit exports of raw wood from all categories of firewood for a period of three months from 6 April 2015. Secondly, the National Assembly is ordering the Minister of Agriculture and Food to immediately begin negotiations with the representatives of the woodworking, furniture and paper industry for the conclusion of long-term framework contracts for guaranteed supply of roundwood by the end of 2015. Third, until the expiry of the period on the prohibition under paragraph 1. 1 of this decision the Minister of Agriculture and Food and the Minister of Finance, together with representatives of the industry and industry, will adopt and introduce administratively by decision of the Council of Ministers a regime for the export of raw wood, as well as to adopt a definition of the term. Fourth, which we propose obliges the state forest enterprises and the Executive Forest Agency of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to establish a regulatory regime to prevent the waste of wood, its proper cutting and sorting according to the requirements of the Bulgarian State Standard. Instructs the State Forest Enterprises and the Forest Executive Agency of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to control the implementation of this regime regardless of the ownership of the forests and the way wood is given to the woodworking companies. That's the logic of the proposal we made. Ms. Karayancheva explained the reasons of the draft decision that she and a group of MPs have submitted. After several meetings of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, there is a common text. We have to him two small proposals, which I hope will make my colleague Mr. Bajraktarov, who was present at the meetings, and we will proceed to the vote on this draft decision. Thank you. [[Single applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u166	Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u167	Mr President, in view of the importance of the decision to be taken by the National Assembly, I propose that we extend the time of the sitting to the vote on this decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u168	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Tsvetomir Mihov. Vote 72 MPs: 69 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Is there an opinion from the importer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I offer your attention and our draft decision on the imposition of a moratorium, and the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Forest Act. I would first like to read to you the reasons we have applied to our legislative initiatives: In recent years in Bulgaria, there has been a cutting of significant quantities of trees, which threatens the ecosystem in many territories. Also, the large export of timber to countries such as Greece, Turkey, Serbia and Macedonia hinders the development of the wood processing industry on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. In connection with repeated violations in the country's forest areas in the Government's Programme for Sustainable Development of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 "2018" it was adopted as a priority to take measures to stop illegal logging and, if necessary, to stop exports of raw timber. What we are proposing, honourable Members, is a draft decision to impose a moratorium on exports of raw wood, which has no time limit, unlike the proposals of the other parliamentary groups. In the original version, in which three proposals had been introduced, the supplier bloc, GERB and the Patriotic Front, and in the three were set a period of three months. That period is also set in the general decision by which the Committee on Agriculture and Food came forward as a correction. We are against setting the deadline, as we believe that it may not be sufficient to impose the necessary controls and to adopt all necessary measures to impose this control. That's why we're proposing that this deadline be cancelled. In the proposal of the Reformation Block, which is a bill for amending and supplementing the Forest Act, was added such a paragraph, which excluded the countries of the European Union. We at Ataka are firmly opposed to this thing, as exports to Greece are very large. At the moment, wood is being exported to Greece unargumented, and this could not solve the problem. As an importer Mr. Dimitar Delchev gave his word at the last meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Food that if amendments are adopted to include a period of three months and it is not enough, the Reformation bloc will insist on extending the ban on exports. That is why I appeal to you to support the party's proposal "Attack" in this case, the clearest option for a proposal is ours. Since all the parliamentary groups are united around solving the problem, I believe that the majority could always be able, at the moment when all legislative initiatives are adopted, at any time, to end this moratorium. And instead of getting involved now in adopting a draft decision or decision to impose a moratorium that will only prohibit exports for three months, let us accept our proposal, even though it is an offer by I appeal once again for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u170	Thank you. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will be very brief. I will offer to your attention an editorial amendment in the Decision, as it is written that it enters into force on 6 April 2015. My proposal and that of the Members of the parliamentary group is the Decision to enter into force immediately after its publication in the Official Journal. I think the motives are clear from everyone who has spoken so far. We must not give time to the so-called wood mafia to navigate the environment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u172	- What's the line? I won't. Come in, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u173	Mr President, before I make editorial amendments and additions that have been missed and are subsequently agreed with the Committee on Agriculture and Food, I would like to explain to my colleague that 6 April is not an accidental date A trade relationship cannot be cleared from today for tomorrow that is impossible! So the date 6 April is very accurate and well-chosen - everyone agreed, including the group of GERB. Please do not do things that will not benefit people who work, pay taxes and provide jobs. It's on the date of April 6th. Mr President, since the decision on a proposal to impose a moratorium was taken at an extraordinary meeting, I would like to add some editorial changes to the Commission's draft decision. In point 1 after the words "three months', the word "export' shall be added, as well as after the word "unworked' shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u174	The first item is prohibited for a period of three months from
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u175	Before sending after the month the word "export" should be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u176	Will there be an alliance later, or a comma? [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u177	I'll read what the text will look like. This is the first point: the export and dispatch of raw round wood, including that of wood, is prohibited for a period of three months.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u178	Not unfinished wood and wood, but unworked wood.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u179	It shall remain unworked wood. It shall remain unworked wood.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u180	It can't just be the export!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u181	And the dispatches stand. Read it again if I have to. I'm reading what the text will look like, Mr. Chairman. The text will make the following sense. [[Heckling]] Yes, the full text to read to you, colleagues, in order to make it clear: This is where editorial changes end, because if the export is missing and the whole exercise is simply meaningless. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 After the words, to make it clear: To issue an order for the ban on exports and to add the word "sends" which is missed, the word "sends." [[Noise and lines.]] I will present to you the text so that you can read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u182	Yeah, I'd appreciate it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u183	To make it clear to colleagues, I will read the whole text what it will look like, colleagues, to make it clear to you: 126, para. 6 of the Forest Law to issue an order to ban exports and dispatches of raw wood. So we're adding a third sentence, which makes total sense to this point. 2 and that is: the order to be sent to the competent enforcement authorities in a timely manner. That's an extra sentence. This sentence is extremely important, fellow Members. Otherwise, we'll go back into the spiral. The administration found out -- didn't get it, got the warrant late, didn't get it, didn't get it. So let this sentence be inserted. I think it, in a manner of speaking, highlights the importance of this document. And in t. 4: The Decision shall enter into force on 6 April 2015 and shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal As well as the experts from the Political Party GERB, as well as the experts from the Reformation Bloc, and the other political forces very well understood that this date should be not from the date of publication in the Official Journal, as colleagues from GERB insist, but from 6 April, because there should be a technological deadline for... [[GERB lines.]] Don't worry, the logging starts after April 15th, sir. Sect has not stopped only in Southeast Bulgaria, where it is widespread, but still remember that there is SKAT TV watch and don't worry. [[Radio, calls from GERB: "Eeeee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u184	This is actually the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u185	This order is issued by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. This is how it begins: the Minister of Agriculture and Food shall be obliged on the basis of art. 126 " and we add a new sentence: "The Order to be sent to the competent enforcement authorities in a timely manner. Here you go. [[Provides in writing his proposals to the chairman.]] The highlighted moments are editorial changes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u186	- What's the line? There are no lines. To speak, the people representative Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u187	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I think the three-month moratorium is a mockery and is just a imitation of fighting the wooden mafia. Let me say from the very beginning that I fully support the idea of an attack on a total moratorium without limiting a time frame. Why? In the quarterly moratorium, as you suggest, wood will still be exported, but only processed. In addition, due to the warm winter, you all know the weather conditions at the moment, the wood warehouses are overcrowded and in three months things will cool off when this moratorium applies, and then the logging will continue with full force. I repeat, I propose and insist that the Law be timeless and valid until the moment when we do not see, the relevant institutions do not see and are not convinced that there is effective control over illegal logging. Speaking of illegal logging, I would like to draw attention to many facts presented in the Bulgarian media in the last two months that the problem is not only in illegal logging, but in the legal one. The problem with the state institution in the face of the forest guards, without, of course, in no way to sum up, as it is a very important institution for the protection of the Bulgarian forests, but the fact is that by many evidences, and you have all heard from the forest guards depends so much that the damage from their work, especially if it is illegal and is related to the wooden mafia or our Roma brothers, the damage from this legal logging is much greater than from the illegal logging, which, of course, is being done for what social reasons. It is very important to clarify, the term has not yet been clarified, what is the meaning of the wood worked. Here I would like to remind you, if you make a little reference, you can also make this reference on the Internet 50 years ago, without having to have such a total moratorium, the forests in Greece and Greece were literally cut down and forced to impose a temporary, timeless moratorium. Three months moratorium, as you suggest, is only three sips of air and nothing more. It is the timeless moratorium that, if it does not resolve the matter, will at least show us the truth and we will be able to see the truth in the eyes. An unlimited moratorium on raw wood, otherwise it is about palliative measures that will lead to nothing. I would like to remind the gentleman who spoke before me not to mention his name so that he does not have the right to reply that a party called the Patriotic Front (Patriotic Front) in its 2014 programme in Chapter V "Ecology" writes, I quote: "Introduction of dragon measures against the eco-breakers, immediate imposition of a moratorium on the logging and exports of Bulgarian forest." I ask you: the three-month moratorium that you are proposing and is a caressing to the head, are these your drakonovski measures? [[Noise and lines.]] "Drakonovski measures" means an unlimited moratorium. [[Loud noise, lines and calls.]] Mr. Chairman, please pay attention to Mr. Mihov, who systematically in this room from both the first and the last row replicates everyone. Mr. Mihov deserves to be punished, and the Ethics Committee must be brought to justice. [[Noise, lines and calls.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u188	Mr. Mihov, I'm giving you a warning, and if you don't stop calling me, I'm gonna kick you out of the courtroom.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u189	You replicate everyone here who doesn't like you. You, Mr. Mihov, are the biggest lawbreaker in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u190	Do not address the MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u191	I don't turn around, Mr. Chairman, but you can see that Mr. Mihov is human...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u192	I gave him a warning!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u193	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u194	A line? Here's a line. [[Noise and lines.]] If there are lines, first lines, then a personal explanation. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Encheva! [[Radio, laughter.]] Excuse me, Mr. Enchev! I was confused because Mr. Enchev regularly confuses the Chairman with Mrs. and I am already infected by him, but still, Mr. Enchev, once again your chameleonishness has been seen. Clearly, you are the only enemy of the Patriotic Front, in fact the political power that makes you present in the National Assembly. If you had at least a little morale, as you stated during the time you were a TV host, you would have resigned as a Member of the National Assembly a long time ago. At least that's what you said while you were leading...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u196	Mr. Bayraktarov, do you have a line on what Mr. Enchev says?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u197	In addition, if you had read the Decision carefully, you would understand that what the Patriot Front offers is the most correct solution for dealing in a short period with the smuggling of wood and illegal logging, but since these things are unclear to you and difficult to explain, it is easier for you to talk nonsense from the stands of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u198	Any other lines? Here you go. Here you go. Here you go. [[Noise and lines.]] Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u199	Mr. Bajraktarov, I am a representative from Sofia region, Botevgrad region. In Botevgrad region the logging is massive and behind it is the Bulgarian mafia. When I talk about mafia, let's not forget that in the Botevgrad region, the Patriot front in my face has always claimed as a candidate-deputy campaign... [[Loud noise, lines and applause from the Patriotic Front.]] I have always argued that as far as I am concerned, the moratorium that I am going to insist on, and this can be seen from my meetings in Pravets and in Botevgrad, I will insist on an unlimited moratorium, so I am now fulfilling my promise to the voters, not your false promises for a three-month moratorium. The three-month moratorium is only a postponement, Mr. Bayraktarov, of the problem and nothing more. There's nothing solved with three months, I told you. 100 days, with accumulated full warehouses of wood cut and cut, mean nothing. You basically, Mr. Bayraktarov, with this three-month moratorium you serve the wooden mafia, I say it most responsible! [[Loud noise and lines from the Patriotic Front.]] That's what you do! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u200	Personal explanation? He can't address you without mentioning your name. [[Replication by the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov. Loud noise and lines.]] Any other speeches? Mrs. Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u201	He can't tell me I'm serving the wood mafia, and I can't have a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, first of all, I would like to point out that the submission of the proposal for a moratorium on exports and dispatches of wood has been submitted at the last minute to the Commission. Urgently, they were discussed in the same way and I have to tell you that there will probably be errors made in terms of code spelling and what should be banned from export and what is respectively possible to be realised outside the country. We proposed other legislative solutions together with the Reformation Block, that is, a change of the Law with art. 126, which prohibits the export of wood, but we still have one fact: the moratorium. We backed him up. BSP left Bulgaria supports this moratorium, but note, provided that we really will have legislative changes within three months and they will lead to an increase in the state's control in terms of logging, including illegal logging. Otherwise, the moratorium will play absolutely no role because it will not solve any problem of the Bulgarian forest. That is why I wish in these three months the National Assembly would unite on a change in the Law. The Law was adopted in 2011. There are defects and they're in the control system. To define the measures to be in favor of the Bulgarian society and the expectations it has. We hope that, both in the Committee on Agriculture and Food, consensus has been reached on this moratorium and in the next steps regarding the proposed projects for changing the Forest Act, and in the next steps we will achieve this consensus that is important for the whole of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u203	Thank you, Professor. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? People's representative Tsveta Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u204	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Let me give a little clarification to my colleague Bajraktarov. [[GERB lines.]] No, no, I'll say two things.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u205	Well, now he's entitled to a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u206	No, I'll say good things. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Just to say why we can't accept the dispatches and exports at the same point and why we split them up. Because we are obliged to the Minister of Agriculture and Food, this is art. 126, para. 6, which says the Minister of Agriculture and Food with an order can temporarily ban exports. That is precisely why we have signed a second point, which in this case is the first point in which we say that in three months the National Assembly with this decision prohibits sendings. Thus, there is no struggle between the two and each and every one of them and the legislative and executive powers will fulfil their functions. The Minister has the right to prohibit exports, we as National Assembly have the right to prohibit dispatches. We agree with the supplement you give for roundwood. One comment on what you said "the order to be sent by the Minister." It's the Minister's duty, and he will, and there's no way we can oblige him. After all, this is not an editorial amendment, so this is my comment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. - What's the line? Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Karayancheva, we speak the same language, but I don't know why we don't want to understand each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u209	Do we get into trouble with the Constitutional Court?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u210	Listen, he's not getting into any Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u211	Don't engage in dialogue with the House.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u212	It is precisely the National Assembly that decides and obliges the Minister for the Purely Administrative Article of the Forests Act 126, so it is appropriate that both exports and dispatches exist because of this. 1 The National Assembly shall take this decision, which shall be entitled both by the directives of the European Union and within the meaning of the Bulgarian Constitution on the separation of powers. I told you, that's why we're applying it at the first point, and now the second point is practically fulfilling the first point, so we don't have any disagreements or disagreements. And as far as round wood is concerned, I've already explained it. And colleague Karakachanov very accurately explained to you that according to the report of the World Wildlife Conservation Association over 2 million. 400,000. Cubic round wood, mostly firewood, just disappear.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u213	Not just round.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u214	Yeah, not just a roundabout, but the report just said $2 million. 400,000. Cubic round wood firewood. [[Reply from MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] I'm talking about firewood, and don't replicate me, read it. I'm telling you that this wood is even more, because according to statistics of everyone here, a normal person should be aware that a family cannot heat with three cc's of firewood on a winter period. The minimum required amount is eight cc's, which means we're not talking $2 million here. 400,000. We're talking at least 3.5 million. When you compare the data with the Bulgarian statistics, you will see that we are talking about losses of the state in the order of over 200 million leva. It is therefore appropriate to have and to have the use of the "roundwood'.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u215	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Any other lines? Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u216	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! We don't have anything against roundwood. Okay, we're bringing it in. But I'm telling you that we have a conflict with shipping and exports. Exports are in the minister's jurisdiction and it's signed by law. Sending it is not in this law and we prohibit it from the position of legislators, so we have no contradiction in this thing. We support the roundwood that you want to insert into the text, so I don't think we have any differences.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u217	Any other speeches? Mr. Zhelev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u218	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Finally, the largest national resource our country has, namely the Bulgarian forest, has entered the focus of public attention.Something the forestry association and other empathetic to the Bulgarian forest guilds have long sought. Of course, it entered in a slightly strange way and we have all seen a very large public attention in all electronic and printed media in recent weeks. We have listened to qualifications such as the fact that in the Bulgarian forest are carried out barbaric, unseeing, uncontrolled clearings that Bulgarian foresters are almost the killers of the people who suffered from the floods. There must be some truth in all this, but if I have to paraphrase Mark Twain, the rumors of the death of the Bulgarian forest are greatly exaggerated. Like any other problem in Bulgaria, there are not one problem in the forests, but many problems of illegal logging, excess use, lack of enough roads in the forests. We are one of the countries with the least roads in the woods. They bring this incredibly large national resource, which is, above all, renewable, not always exploited in the best way. Let's get back to the moratorium. Much of the talkers were right about a lot of things and a lot of things from my point of view were wrong. But we're missing a very important moment. I'm just prof. Bachvarova emphasized on him. Surely this three-month moratorium will not solve the problem. I think no measure in itself will stop illegal activities in the forests. It takes a complex of measures. The good thing about this decision, which we will be voting on shortly, is that in addition to putting a moratorium on exports for three months, we oblige the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to take the necessary legislative initiatives to change things to a common plan so that the really illegal actions in the Bulgarian forest are minimized. I can assure you that it is already working very hard there. The forest law works not with application rules, but with regulations. Within a very short period of time I suppose within a month, a month and a half, four new regulations will come out, which are extremely important. One is the logging regulation. The work on this regulation has already been completed. All that remains is her public discussion. The Regulation on inventory and forest planning is an extremely important regulation that will finally give us an answer to the question of what kind of resource we have so that all planning actions from now on can be very close to the truth. Ordinance on the award of activities in the forestry areas "State and municipal property'. Regulation No 1 on the control and conservation of forest areas is also ready and waiting for approval, as it must be agreed with the Ministry of Interior. A number of texts have also been prepared for a change in legislative texts. This is the main thing Bulgarian society should expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u219	Thank you, Mr. Zhelev. - What's the line? I won't. Mrs. Balabanov, come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I won't take up too much of the people's representation. Once again, let's not leave people with the conviction that we're doing something, and we're not actually doing anything. In this regard, I would like to propose in the general decision with which the Commission came up, two editorial proposals: 1 et c. 2 the words for a period of three months shall be dropped. I would also like to mention Mr. Bajraktarov with good reason and remind him that at the first meeting of the Committee on Agriculture he gave his word that the Patriotic Front will support the proposals of Ataka. I expect that to happen, at least on his behalf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u221	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the proposals of the National Representative Balabanov for dropping out in t. 1 of the words for a period of three months......................................................................................... In the same way, for dropping the words for a period of three months. First, we will vote on the motion to drop out in t. 1 of the words for a period of three months. Please vote. They voted 101 MPs: 26, against 47, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. To re-vote, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am doing a re-voting procedure because some Members have failed to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u223	It's a re-vote. Vote 112 MPs: 30, against 54, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on Mrs. Balabanov's second proposal for dropping the words for a period of three months. 2. They're at the end of the point. They voted 115 MPs: 30, against 61, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal was the MP Tsvetomir Mihov for a change in point. 4 of the Decision, namely the statement of 6 April 2015 to be published and to be placed in its place immediately after its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Please vote on the proposal. They voted 116 MPs: for 80, against 27, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u224	My fellow Members, you clearly do not understand what you are doing with this vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u225	With this procedure, you can't go like this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u226	I want a re-vote, because by voting for a vote, you are currently shutting down 6,000 jobs. I have explained to you very precisely and clearly that in the process of production there is the so-called term "incomplete production of production." In this way, by voting for the European Parliament, you are practically closing jobs. [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u227	Revoting procedure. Vote 108 MPs: 72, against 23, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. We continue with the proposals of the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov. The first, in t. 1 to be added the word "export" after three months, and after "sends of" to be used by the working wood. Please vote on the proposal of the MP Dimitar Bayraktarov. They voted 111 MPs: 60, against 5, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. Who wants a re-vote? [[Heckling]] Please, only if someone hasn't been able to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u228	Of course, colleagues came in at the last minute and couldn't vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-04.u229	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. It's a re-vote. They voted 118 MPs: 52, against 5, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposal of the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov: 2 after the words "Forbidden export' and "Sends of raw wood' shall be added, and the sentence "The order to be sent to the competent enforcement authorities shall be added in a timely manner. Vote 117 MPs: 41, Against 5, abstention 71. The offer is not accepted. There was a proposal for the date of entry into force, but once the proposal of the MP Mihov was adopted, it cannot be put to the vote. I put to the vote the final text of the draft decision together with the proposal made by the MP Tsvetomir Mihov. They voted 121 MPs: 115 against 1, abstention 5. The decision's been made. That's what we've run out of schedule for today. The next session is tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. 5 - First vote on the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Forest Act. Communication for the Economic Commission: immediately after the meeting in Hall. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
