ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u1	We have a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, I present to you the Project for the Work Programme of the National Assembly for May 13, 2015. There are proposals made by the parliamentary groups under the order of art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first parliamentary group on the right to make proposals this month is the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. She suggests: 1. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importers are Rumen Yonchev and a group of MPs on January 15th This Decision shall The political party's parliamentary group, Ataka, is proposing: 2. Project for a decision to condemn the genocide of the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire (1396). Importers are Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. There are no proposals from the parliamentary groups of ABB and GERB. The parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria offers: 3. Draft Decision on the need to review the EU's policy of sanctions on the conflict in Ukraine. Mr. Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs on 17 December 2014. There are no proposals from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block and the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front. In the other part of the Programme to be voted on, the following shall be proposed: 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Medical Devices Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 30 January 2015. Adopted at first vote on 18 March 2015. 5. Report of the Temporary Commission for the study of the financial situation of pension insurance companies and their managed universal and professional pension funds and the implementation of a regulatory framework and a draft decision on the report. The President of the Temporary Commission is the People's Representative Cornelia Ninova on 30 April 2015. 6. Draft decision to take an act from the Protocol to Convention No 29 of the International Labour Organisation on Forced Labour and Recommendation No 203 of the International Labour Organisation on the taking of additional measures to effectively counter forced labour. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 16 April 2015. 7. Draft Law on ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan for legal aid in criminal matters. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2015. 8. Draft Law on ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan for extradition. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2015. 9. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Albania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Iceland, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the NATO Agency for Communication and Information (NCIA) on cooperation in the implementation of projects for the extension of the Air Command and Control System (ACCS). Importer is the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2015. 10. First vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Consumer Protection. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 21 April 2015. 11. Project for a decision to convert a private university to a college with the title of "International College" and "Albena," based in the Resort complex "Albena" in the municipality of Balchik, in the specialized private university of management of Varna. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015. 12. Project for a decision for the transformation of the private university of senior college with the name of "European College of Economics and Management" and with the head office of Plovdiv in the specialized private school of economics and management of Plovdiv. Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 5 March 2015 13. Project for a decision for the transformation of a private university of a private university called a College of Economics and Administration and with its head office in Plovdiv at a specialized private university of security and economy of Plovdiv. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015. 14. Project for a decision for the transformation of the College of Telecommunications and Posts Sofia, Varna University of Telecommunications and Post Offices with headquarters in Sofia. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015. 15. Report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2014. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 30 March 2015. 16. First vote on the Bill for Supplement to the State Property Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 30 January 2015 17. Parliamentary control under art. 104 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It is scheduled for today, Wednesday, May 13, 2015 at 12:00. 18. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. This point is proposed to start at 9:00 on Friday. The Presidential Council agreed that the whole Friday day should be dedicated to parliamentary control. This is the proposal for a program. Please vote on the part to be voted on without the proposals of the parliamentary groups in accordance with art. 50, para. 8. They voted 147 MPs: 110, against 23, abstention 14. The National Assembly's work programme for the period 13 May 2015 has been adopted. Proposals for inclusion in the agenda in accordance with art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first one is the MP Desislav Chukolov: on the basis of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose that a draft condemning the genocide of the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire from 1396 to 1913, should be included as a point in the National Assembly's Programme for the period from 13 to 15 May 2015, with the aim of condemning the genocide of the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire. No 454-02-7 from 27 October 2014, submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Ataka. Is anyone going to justify the offer? Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u2	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, we propose to include on the agenda an item which represents a decision to condemn the genocide of the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire in 1396. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man.................................................... This decision of Ataka Party has been proposed several times in previous national meetings. In the current National Assembly for the first time, although it was introduced into the Ministry of Economy in October 2014. The decision refers to the five centuries of Ottoman-Turkish rule in the Bulgarian lands through which genocide has been carried out over the Bulgarian people, which includes the following historical crimes: change of religion, value system, respectively change of ethnicity of an extremely large number of Bulgarians; exhausting the genofund of the Bulgarians through the so-called blood tax.The destruction of the mass murder of a large number of Bulgarians; restructuring of the Bulgarian community in the lower class of the empire with limited rights and non-dimensional obligations; destruction of the medieval culture of Bulgaria; cancellation of the European Renaissssssence for the Bulgarians. The extermination and violent change of the ethnic identity of the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire are fully recorded in UN international acts as war crimes and crimes against humanity. There's no statute of limitations for these crimes. At the beginning of the transition from communism to capitalism in Bulgaria appeared the thesis of Ottoman presence. It imposed the idea of equality between Turks and Bulgarians in the theocratic empire of the Ottomans, with which it deprived the Bulgarian Revival and restoration of the Bulgarian state. Today the Bulgarians are facing the advance of neo-Osmanism, which is an extremely aggressive thesis to restore the Ottoman Empire and a significant part of the elite of Turkish society, no smaller parts of different social layers profess this thesis sincerely. It provides for the conversion of countries from the European southeast into one sense or another into Turkish provinces. The National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria appreciates the policy of the Ottoman Empire as genocide against the Bulgarians and on the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution HAS DECIDED 1. Announcing May 17 - Day of the massacre in Batak for a day of worship of the victims of genocide over the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire and assigning the Bulgarian government to erect a memorial complex in a suitable place in the capital. 2. The listed historical crimes cannot be minimized and denied in state and public documents, in spoken and written words by state and private media, in textbooks and teaching aids. Thank you for your attention. I offer to your attention a draft decision to condemn the genocide of the Bulgarians during the Ottoman Empire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u3	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Desislav Chukolov for inclusion in the program of the National Assembly of the newly presented Draft Decision. They voted 145 MPs: 44, against 43, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. You have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am proposing a re-vote. I repeat, this is a decision of the National Assembly, which is very late, but still better late than never. A decision to condemn genocide on Bulgarians during the Ottoman Empire and to accept the date 17 May as a date of worship to the victims of this genocide. Recently here, though in a highly edited form...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u5	I understand, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u6	...we have adopted a decision to recognize the mass extermination of the Armenians. It would be absolutely illogical, and not to say stronger words, not to accept the decision on genocide over the Bulgarians. Thank you. I suggest a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u7	Revoting procedure. They voted 153 MPs: 50, against 49, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from the wounded representatives Maya Manolova and Kiril Dobrev: on the basis of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly we propose to include the first vote on the Draft Law for the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests Act No 554 01 26, from 11 February 2015 with importers Maya Manolova, Kiril Dobrev and Atanas Zafirov. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u8	Dear colleagues, Mr. President, my colleague Kiril Dobrev and I propose to include on the agenda of this working week the bill for amendments to the Law on Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests. This is one of the topics that particularly excites the Bulgarian citizens about how the power is exercised, in whose interests the people who take high public positions work, whether they defend the public interest in good faith or are subject to unlawful influences and work in private and in corporate interest. This topic has become particularly relevant since the scandal with the so-called Philip Zlatanov Stephter and its disappearance. Meanwhile, Philip Zlatanov went through two judicial institutions and the amendments to the Law on Conflict of Interest are still aged in the lockers of the President of the National Assembly and the Head of the Legal Commission. It is clear how it was worked to prevent conflict of interest and corruption. Now work has changed and a drone is working on a drone, mayor of mayor. But our worries are that autumn the drones will fly away, as did Zlatanov's notebook and the comfortable mayors and remaining public figures will continue to work undisturbedly, as they have until now, namely not in the public interest, but in private, corporate and party. It is clear what is the counterpoint of the ruling majority I myself have taken into account. I am waiting for Mrs. Kuneva to submit the so widely declared changes, but until that happens, I am simply informing the majority that for two years the Commission for Conflict of Interest has been working in an illegal formation with three of the five members, all three of which are in the conditions of rotation. So if you really want to fight the conflict of interest and corruption, you should put on the agenda the consideration of this Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Manolova. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MPs Maya Manolova and Kiril Dobrev under Art. 50, para. 3 for inclusion in the Bill programme, which was mentioned. They voted 147 MPs: for 73, against 36, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u10	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! The vote is truly encouraging. Obviously, among the Members of the National Assembly there is a desire and will that the National Assembly contribute to the fight for this, those holding public positions work in the public interest; to have an effective body [[GRUNTING AND GERB PLAYING]] to prevent conflict of interest and fight corruption. That is, all the good practices that exist at the moment, if someone misunderstands me, including with the mayors' drones, to find their place in the Law, and the Commission's activities to become public and transparent through the random method of distribution of files and with effective work against the outrage of power.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u12	My suggestion is to re-vote and the point be first on tomorrow's plenary day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u13	I can tell there's an election coming.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u14	It's a re-vote. They voted 167 MPs: 81, against 62, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. The third proposal, on the same basis.............................................................................................. 50, para. 3 was submitted by the National Representative Georgi Gokov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, BSP left Bulgaria, he proposed that as a point in the Program of the National Assembly for the period 13 May 2015 be included First voting of the Draft for amendment and supplement to the Labour Code, No 554-01-24 of 6 February 2015, submitted by Petar Kanev and a group of MPs. Enough that he proposed it on his own behalf, because I think the parliamentary group can't do it s not in the group's leadership. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u15	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The bill proposed by us to amend and supplement the Labour Code, which I propose to enter today on the agenda, contains measures aimed at the mandatory implementation of certain actions, activities and obligations that are described in the Labour Code, and this, in turn, will alleviate the conditions for business, mainly of micro enterprises and small businesses. At the same time, I expect that this will reduce the corruption pressure on business. There are several proposals. We propose that the obligation of micro-enterprises and small firms to prior written notification of the Labour Inspection for extended working hours, to coordinate with trade unions. The bill provides that the obligation to draw up schedules for the use of leave as a non-working text in the Labour Code should be removed. A very important and interesting thing that is expected from the society "We offer a refund to the employer's right to terminate the employment contract with persons who have acquired the right to pension for retirement and age. In this way, workers in employment and employment are equal. We propose to you to waive the protection under art. 333, para. 1 in disciplinary dismissal. In the committees, this Bill was supported by all the groups. I think that besides society, the business is waiting for it and these are administrative reliefs. I appeal to you, Members of the National Assembly, to support the entry of this item on the agenda because of the important things contained in this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u16	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 139 MPs: for 70, against 20, abstention 49. The motion is accepted. Communication on the draft and draft decisions from 6 May to 12 May 2015: A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importers "Stodi Borisov Andreev" and a group of MPs. The lead committee to which the bill is assigned is the Committee on Legal Affairs. Administrative Monitoring Report 2014 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020). Importer of the Council of Ministers. The committees to which the report is allocated are the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Culture and Media, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Education and Science is the lead. On 5 May 2015, the Council of Ministers on the basis of art. 105, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria has submitted to the National Assembly for information First convergence programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2015 - 2018, approved by Decision No 297 of the Council of Ministers of 2015, second update of the National Reform Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria, approved by Decision No 298 of the Council of Ministers of 2015. By letters of the Chair the materials are provided to all Standing Committees and are available in the Library of the National Assembly. In the period from 8 to 12 May 2015, two materials from the National Statistical Institute were received to the National Assembly, containing results from statistical studies on: The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Before continuing our work, according to the adopted Programme, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Revival Alternative, the word is given by the People's Representative Miho Mihov for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u17	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will present to you the position of the ABB Parliamentary Group on the situation in the Republic of Macedonia. The political party Alternative for Bulgarian Revival is deeply worried about the development of the political situation in the neighbouring Republic of Macedonia, resulting in violence and human victims, escalation of tensions and clashes between different groups of society, manifestations of ethnic opposition and terrorism. The political crisis in our neighbour, which has been going on for several months, comes to show that the attachment to the rule of law, respect for freedom of speech, association and media, ethnic and religious tolerance, honest elections guaranteeing stability of institutions and public processes are the only way for democratic development. What happened in Kumanovo is a sad example of how the suppression of these principles and freedoms, the planting of hatred and division in society can easily grow into human tragedy. We strongly hope that this case will remain an isolated incident and that the instigators and participants in this insane act will be punished on the basis of an impartial investigation and a trial. By condemning all forms of extremism, lawlessness and arbitrariness and declaring ourselves to calm the situation and restore order in the state, we call: - the authorities and the opposition, all political parties in the Republic of Macedonia should refrain from using hate speech and from actions that could cause further unrest and clashes leading to destabilisation of the country; - the leaders of the parties and ethnic groups in the Republic of Macedonia to enter without delay into a direct dialogue to develop measures to ensure the democratic process and equal treatment of different communities in accordance with the Ohrid document; - the Government of the Republic of Macedonia to take effective measures to combat terrorism and to cross any attempts to ignite an ethnic conflict that threatens the stability and security not only of the country but also of its neighbours and the entire region; - immediately cease the practice of illegal wiretapping, pressure and repression against journalists, as well as the pursuit of national identity manifestations in the Republic of Macedonia, and take the necessary legal and administrative measures to prevent such events in the future; - all neighbouring countries of the Republic of Macedonia and major non-regional factors to refrain from interfering with its internal affairs and stand clear against any separatist calls and attempts to change borders in the region; - the European Union, its institutions and Member States to implement effective tools to address the problems of the Republic of Macedonia, first of all by confirming the policy of enlargement of the Union and outline a concrete and realistic perspective of the integration of the Western Balkan countries; - the government of the Republic of Bulgaria to make an overall assessment of the situation in the Republic of Macedonia in terms of possible risks and threats to the security of Bulgaria and to present to the National Assembly and/or the Advisory Council for National Security with the President a complex of actions and initiatives on our part in bilateral, regional and European plan; - the Minister of Foreign Affairs to report to the Committee on Foreign Policy of the National Assembly on the status and prospects of bilateral relations with the Republic of Macedonia, including the work on the Treaty on Good Neighborhood; - The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the other competent departments to make full use of the Presidency of the Cooperation Process in South East Europe to confirm the role of Bulgaria as a leading regional factor and to this end initiate a programme of measures to strengthen the stability and activation of cooperation in the context of the European integration of the region. [[Applause from AG to ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u18	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. We are continuing our work on the Programme, which we adopted half an hour ago, the first point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW ON THE ADDED LOANS WITH No 534-01-6 was submitted by the National Representative Rumen Yonchev and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 15 January 2015. The report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food will introduce us to the people's representative Georgi Andonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 554-01-6, submitted by the National Representative Rumen Yonchev and a group of MPs on 15 January 2015. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 28 January 2015, discussing a draft amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, No 554-01-6, submitted by the National Representative Rumen Yonchev and a group of MPs on 15 January 2015. The Commission's work was attended by the Ministry of Agriculture and Foods.. Desislava Taneva, Minister; the Ministry of Finance............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Representatives of NGOs and civil movements were also present. The Law proposes that registered farmers who do not sell fuels and are end-users should be excluded from the scope of the obligation to charge liquid fuels to machines or other own-use equipment to register and account for the charging under Regulation No H-18 of 2006 for recording and reporting sales through fiscal devices. The proposal relates to the amendments adopted to the Law on Value Added Tax, which should be applied after the Regulation has been synchronised with the new requirements of the law. The main highlights of the discussions held can be systematized like this: According to the Ministry of Finance, the provisions by which farmers are included in the circle of persons obliged to place measuring instruments and to take into account in real time the quantities and movements of fuels that they purchase in bulk are imposed as an average year does not declare 36.2% of the diesel fuel consumed by all farmers. With the largest proportion of undeclared supplies are the supplies for the sectors "Rural holding" "48,1%," and "Transport" "34,5%." The most risky sites are the fuel storage sites located on the territory of various enterprises (farm yards, transport, construction and industrial enterprises)................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Ministry of Finance stressed that the lack of legislation regulating the activity of these sites and the insufficient information on fuel used by them are the reason why revenue administrations do not have the necessary data to carry out effective preventive and subsequent controls. They underlined that the change concerns both farmers and persons engaged in transport, production, construction and other activities and aims to monitor the process related to the supply and movement of fuels from producer and importer to end-user. The opinions of the MPs and representatives of the branch organizations were that the arguments put forward were not sufficient to justify the introduction of such a extremely heavy measure for farmers. It was pointed out that the specifics of agricultural activity make the requirements envisaged almost impossible to apply. Most machines used in agriculture are not registered for movement on the Republican road network and this hinders their access to the fuel network. Moving heavy machinery over long distances to charge fuel is expensive and inappropriate. They reminded that farmers are entitled to a tax preference and buy a large proportion of fuel with vouchers for a reduced excise rate. Accordingly, they have all the necessary fuel documents they purchase and consume and, in this sense, the fiscal effect declared for the application of the envisaged measure cannot be achieved. They agreed that a register of fuel storage sites should be established which would allow control over them. In general, it was unanimous that, in order to achieve the effect that the Ministry of Finance aims, the control measures should be mainly on the borders with regard to intra-Community supplies and gasolines transporting the imported fuel to wholesale storage, as fuel can only be exported once it has been made available there after payment of the relevant taxes and excise duties. In conclusion, after the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 12 votes in favour, without the opposition, and 6 votes in abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, No 554-01-6, submitted by the National Representative Rumen Yonchev and a group of MPs on 15 January 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u20	Thank you, Mr. Andonov. There is no report from the leading Committee on Budget and Finance. On behalf of the importers, please come in, Mr. Yonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u21	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I understand the weak interest in the presented Bill, but I think it is important enough to justify the presence of more MPs in this House. The task of presenting the Bill is actually facilitated by the fact that it is supported by representatives from almost all parliamentary groups. I think there are supporters in each of the parliamentary groups. In this sense, I hope that each of them has done what is necessary so that the parliamentary groups are aware of the reasons for submitting this bill and why it should be supported. At the same time, the other facilitating circumstance is the recently announced collection data in the state budget, in particular the collection rate of excise duties and fuel taxes. It's obvious the direction up, obviously it's a better gathering. At the same time, it became clear that the text in question, which we are discussing today from the VAT Act, is not yet applicable because there is no updated regulation to introduce it into use. I would like to say that thanks to the good work of the Customs Agency and the tax administration, obviously the collection rate has been increased without affecting the part of the Agricultural producers, where nothing has changed yet. What we propose as importers is to remove something that I would call a legislative error, because it is no secret that this Law was adopted with the Transitional and Final Provisions of the State Budget Act late at night shortly before Christmas. I do not know how we let it go, how we missed it at that time as a discussion and debate, but it is obvious that when farmers in Bulgaria are first entitled to certain quantities of fuels without excise duty, i.e. with the so-called vouchers for the refund of the excise duty, when farmers are the end-user of these fuels, it is obvious that the introduction of such a requirement constitutes an unnecessary burden, unnecessary burden on their work, leads to additional costs, which we have discussed quite a lot in the Commission on Agriculture and Food. I regret that the Budget and Finance Committee has not entered into the depths of the problem. It is also worth seeing in this topic how much it would cost each farmer to introduce these measures. The main issue we want to put before the MPs is which are fuel traders and farmers whether they are traders or consumers of fuels. The approach chosen by the current Act aims to turn the farmer into a fuel trader with all the rights and obligations resulting from this In other words, each farmer must become the owner of a gas station. In our view, the correct approach is a user and trader. We must remove farmers from the field of fuel traders. The other question is, what do we control about fuel storage tanks or fuel sellers? It is no secret that agricultural production is one of the major consumers of diesel fuel and inevitably every farmer is the owner of huge vessels in which it stores such fuels. Some of them are also mobile, on wheels, because some of them have to be in the field in real time, to load the agricultural machines there, to ensure continuity of the treatments. It is not serious that the claim that the Ministry of Finance has also that it should almost be the alternative of every farmer, if he does not want to install these measuring instruments, is to take the machines to a gas station and load them there. Firstly, not each of these machines is sufficiently fit and registered for traffic on the Republican road network, some of them do not have a registration plate under the Road Traffic Act, on the KTI. Secondly, each of these machines burns hard enough to be worth getting on the road. Imagine, for example, the diggers in the mines also going to start charging at the country's petrol stations, imagine the congestion and the complications that would cause all of this. In other words, the option of filling a gas station does not stand in front of farmers. Once again, we return to the need to either turn them into fuel traders with all the circumstances resulting from this, or to give them the opportunity to be a real normal end-user, of course, with a special status. Moreover, the vouchers in question without excise fuel "If someone makes the effort to access a simple account, he will see that if you take out the excise duty, each farmer, of course, registered under VAT, that is, the VAT, and the corresponding discount, which usually negotiates the farmer to use fuel in such quantities, turns out that the profit to buy on black or illegal fuel disappears. The final price that he will pay quite legally with all the necessary documents is actually better than that which he would eventually find on some black market of fuels. So the farmer is hardly the source of the shadow economy in which we suspect him. I do not know where this initiative of the Ministry of Finance for Statistics comes from that 40 or 41% of the shady trade in fuels is in the field of agriculture. I have no idea how such statistics can be obtained, given that much of these fuels are supported by the so-called vouchers, i.e. they are quite really accounted for. On the other hand, there are invoices with which they were sold. The big question is actually where the tax administration should control the supply of fuels, whether at the consumer or at the source, at the supplier. We think it's much easier for the manufacturer to do that. After all, fuel producers in Bulgaria count on the fingers of one hand, even fewer of them. The importers and border crossings through which such fuels pass are quite few. It seems to me that in recent months, tax and customs administrations have been doing very really and well with this task, and this is indicative of increased revenue. There is no argument left why farmers need to be turned, rudely speaking, into a single gas station that sells fuel to itself. Not to mention that the expenditure, the announced figures.. were discussed in the Commission.................................................................................................... BGN, for such a charging point are not real at all. The actual amount exceeds 20,000. lv. Of course, everyone will say: "Yes, farmers get so much, and so little they give to the state. Believe me, this is not exactly the case, because farmers in Bulgaria, compared to their colleagues from the other countries, have been quite unauthorized. Bear in mind that we do not make national payments, but on top of that, give and burden them with another cost that brings nothing to the budget as revenue, no fiscal effect that justifies such a measure. Colleagues, I suggest we take this bill seriously because it is also expected from a large part of the agricultural community in the country. Of course, the Ministry of Finance proposes that the problem be resolved through the Ordinance, which will somehow address the problem. However, the regulation cannot change the law, the Regulation cannot amend and repeal what the legislator has repealed as an obligation of the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration and of the farmers to install the appliances in question. At the moment there is a dispute whether the tanks should be a ton and a half, a ton, and so on, whether they should be on wheels or not. Any such division will be controversial, will be extremely unfounded, because nowadays there are machines whose capacity exceeds 200, 300, 500 liters [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Colleagues, due to the lack of fiscal effect of the Bill, because we want to save additional unnecessary costs to farmers and because, after all, the aim of each administration, of any legislation, is to facilitate business, I call on you to support the bill we have tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u22	Thank you, Mr. Yonchev, for arguing on behalf of an importer. I don't see any reports from any other committees. Dear colleagues, we are going into debate mode. Here you are, Mr. Andonov, for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u23	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Yonchev as an importer, really the subject of the requirements that we set in the Law on excises and tax warehouses, in relation to government filling stations, create a prerequisite for tensions in the sector of Agriculture and Agriculture and, above all, tensions regarding the short term, which was set in the Law, the requirements of farmers. On the one hand, the approach may have, to some extent, had a rather large basis and guilt to obtain this tension, but generally, the information we have on the part of the Ministry of Finance, in terms of the percentage given as undeclared, if I may say so, fuels in the grey sector, this is 36 per cent, and 48% of this fuel farming, is indeed a prerequisite for doing something cardinal, something different to create preconditions for preventive control. What we have as information from the Ministry of Finance is that we have a minimum volume level of 1000 liters that do not fall into this category, in these requirements, we have timed to meet the requirements of the year of the different farmers, that is to say we want the angro to cover, requirements to make these huge investments that you are talking about. The law that you are proposing actually kind of overlaps the expectations of farmers. If we are talking about control, it would be necessary for me and important for control to be carried out in the so-called illegal tax warehouses and warehouses that duplicate tax warehouses, because a large part of the percentage that you speak of arises from there. If the Ministry had to fight the grey sector, it would be better to pay attention to the primary supply of fuel, where the imports themselves start, the tanks coming in from the Member States of the European Union, the so-called common supplies, and I think this has been done lately, it has been there. Increasing excise revenue by nearly 100 million per month in the last few months clearly and categorically speaks about the fight and will of the state to deal with this problem. I think that in dialogue with farmers, what is currently being done by the Ministry of Finance should be implemented in the adopted amendments to the Law on excises last year and to make sure that all government filling stations enter the common control and enter into the requirements of all service stations that work, whether they are government or not. Then there will be a lightening of the whole sector, there will be a transparency and a clear idea of what the state's commitment to the grey sector is. At this stage, I think that the submitted bill by you, although it is very widely supported by various representatives of the parliamentary groups, by the branch organisations, at this stage, the dialogue that was obtained by the Ministry of Finance and Industry, reduced to some extent the tensions, created a prerequisite for normal dialogue and at this stage it would not be necessary to be supported. I therefore call on my fellow Members, if we want to show once again that the state has the will to fight the grey sector, let us not at this stage support the bill tabled by colleagues Rumen Yonchev and a group of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u24	Thank you, Mr. Andonov. I can see there's a desire for procedure, but before that, lines and dots. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u25	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Andonov, in your divorce speech, from which it has not become very clear whose side you are on, although you have finally announced your position, I would like you to answer the question: are not the Ministry of Finance and Fisk sufficiently protected by the fact that the Bill says that the exception applies to farmers who do not sell liquid fuels? It is precisely the role and function of the Ministry of Finance, respectively of the agencies of the National Revenue Agency (NAP), the Customs Agency, which is their function and role to carry out this control, and not to transfer responsibility to farmers and to make them make additional investments for something that is their duty.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u26	Thank you. Come in for a second line, Mr. Kenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u27	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Andonov, although I also did not understand the clear position during your speech, and I am not convinced that this is your personal opinion on this issue: that these fuels are the main reason to have a grey sector in the fuel trade, I cannot agree. I don't think any of my colleagues can say that with a clear mind. From this tribune, Minister Goranov transferred the fuel ball with reduced excise duty to the Ministry of Agriculture. You know, there have been some absurd differences in this message, from which it became clear how many tons of fuel without excise duty or with reduced excise duty farmers have received. There were some differences of three or four times, but ultimately the Ministry of Agriculture continues to fail to respond. I was answered that I couldn't get a list of the people and companies that got fuel with reduced excise duty because it was personal data and maybe I would abuse it. However, a tank in the yard of a small production company, a small farmer will in no way affect the collection and fiscal effect that this activity has. These people can't turn them into fuel traders, we can't oblige them to meet requirements, along with large companies that have chains of gas stations all over the country. Please reconsider your position. I genuinely believed that you were in this position the Bulgarian farmer to have the opportunity to charge wholesale fuel, to charge his equipment normally and to carry out his activities without having every tractor to go to a gas station 10-20 km from the levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u28	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. Here's a third line, Mr. Yonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Andonov, I don't know why we're continuing and you're using the term office service. There have been no offices in Bulgaria for a long time, at least on that understanding we had for an office of another period, much less a department service. The very concept embodies qualities of objects that they do not have. A large fuel tank is not a gas station and cannot be treated as such. It is purchased by all legal regulations, taxes paid, it is reported to be purchased, invoiced. If such a sale is hidden in any way, it is another problem and another administration should ensure that it is revealed. You're also quoting the Ministry's statistics on these 40%, 40 and how many. Tell me, how did they calculate them? How did they know that it was the farmers who realised this lack, when it actually turned out that without acting this regulatory provision, because there is no current updated regulation, the revenues in the treasury will increase? So it wasn't the farmers, somewhere else it was the tap, and someone was able to shut it down. Good for him to close it, but let's not look for trouble where it's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u30	Thank you. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Andonov? You've been summoned to take sides. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u31	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kenov, Mrs. Ahmedova and Mr. Yonchev, thank you for the lines you gave me. Dear colleagues, the first thing that is, we have no way of knowing whether gas stations or facilities that are designed to load agricultural equipment in individual agricultural yards are trading illegal fuel, fuel that has not been paid excise duty, VAT and all state charges until then until we include them in the control of which all gas stations are subject. The more we reject the debate about the state not being present and not legitimising, or, if so, not putting these gas stations into general control, the worse for us. Also in my speech, I said that, on the one hand, the approach created great tensions for the fact that it took place in a second reading of the State Budget Act with an additional provision, that it happened within a very short period of time, that it happened with a poor debate on the part of different industry organizations and created tensions, but in the process of the work the Ministry of Finance approaches in a different way and we all have to step away from the debate the state should not exercise control. The colleague just said that the manufacturer of brandy for his own needs and he is not a trader, but currently under current legislation is also subject to control. So when we are talking about more than 36% of the gray sector's share of fuel sales and 40% of those 36% of the sector's................................. we really all need to pay great attention to solving these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u32	Thank you, Mr. Andonov. Before I give the floor for the other speeches, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like a 30-minute recess.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u34	I see that an hour has passed since the beginning of the session. You're absolutely right. I'm calling a 15-minute recess. At 10:25, please, all your colleagues in the room. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u35	We are continuing the plenary session. Please invite Members of Parliament to the Chamber. For a statement there is the national representative Evgeni Stoev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It has become clear from the report which my colleague read to the Commission on Agriculture and Foods that, in any case, in the circle of those who have to put measuring instruments to take into account in real time the quantities and the movement of fuels, there is a large part of which are not declared, and this is: an average year is not declared 36.2% of the diesel fuel that is consumed. As the largest proportion of undeclared supplies are supplies in the sector "Residual holding" "48,1% and "Transport" "34,5%." The most risky fuel storage sites are located right on the territory of different enterprises and farmyards, construction companies, industrial enterprises or so-called popularity service stations. So, given that excise duties have to be collected anyway, we really need to put the issue of excluding from those quantities that pass through the service stations must be included and registered as objects where fuel sales are carried out both for end-users. The question here is how the budget will be filled out. The next question is: why should there be white spots inside the country that should not be taxed with excise duties? The question is here and how the Ministry of Finance will increase through the IRA and through customs its collection, since under the current regulations in force these so-called service stations in the territory of farmyards and industrial enterprises have been excluded and are not in the excise tax regulation. So there is also something else to be said here that I now remember that market mechanisms are also distorting. In a market economy, excise fuels are still far cheaper than fuels subject to excise duty. From there, transport companies, agricultural companies, construction companies that use such companies are not equivalent to others, which are still obliged by the current law to have measuring instruments. So, in fact, in order not to get any distortion on the market, and especially, as is now the need to keep spending policies in order to fill the budget, there really must be no white spots everywhere on all government, agricultural, transport, construction and whatever objects you want, there must be measuring instruments. So in this regard, I really want the laws in the Republic of Bulgaria to be applied and there are no white spots inside the country itself or the so-called "free zones" without excise tax.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u37	Thank you, Mr. Stoev. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Stoev, I can't understand why you're acting like an ostrich and taking this pose, thinking that by burying your head in the sand, the problem is solved? Aren't you aware that the problem is not with government gas stations, but with regard to the collection of excise duties? Are you not aware that the problem is in the Customs Agency, in smuggling, in the NSA's collection agencies, and not where you are trying to transfer the problem? Why are you transferring the problem from the sick to the healthy head?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Ahmedova. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Stoev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u40	About smuggling anyway, I think whoever can handle it will probably become a Nobel laureate. But it has to be limited at least. You are right that there really is in any country, either European or any country, there is contraband. But the issue is actually to reduce, to limit, and those places that may be identified, from which there may be smuggling or there will be tension in the NRA, in customs where they can be left out of control, anyway these holes must be blocked. At least we can make an effort, at least legislate with the regulations, with the legislation that is issued and the regulations of the Council of Ministers to actually make some effort, because at the end of the day we cannot exclude from the area of taxation with arguments, because they are unregistered machines, because there is no way to put levels of meters, gas meters and so on and not to go along the Republican road infrastructure to exclude now the agricultural sector, tomorrow will be aviation, the day after tomorrow will be patrolling boats on the Black Sea, and thus, anyway, leave holes in the budget and wonder how we can increase the collection of excise duties in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u41	Thank you, Mr. Stoev. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front for a statement, the People's Representative Krasimir Karakachanov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! I take the floor on the events this Saturday and Sunday in Macedonia and the terrorist activities in a city that is only 60 km away from the Bulgarian border. First, on behalf of the Patriotic Front, I would like to express my support and sympathy to the relatives of the victims and victims in the fight against the terrorist attack in Macedonia. I take this opportunity to call for more empathy for the fate of our brothers in Macedonia not only because more than 2 million current Bulgarian citizens in modern Bulgaria have their origins from different parts of Macedonia, but also because Bulgaria and the Patriotic Front are firmly against the violent change of borders, aggression and ethnic conflicts. Every ethnic conflict near us threatens us directly. Macedonia is in political and economic crisis. The outcome of this is democratisation. The government in Skopje holds the country in isolation and in captivity to a sick fantasy of some ancient history and identity. Thus, the government in Skopje takes away honest people in Macedonia not only from their true roots, but also from the possibility of having real and not false sources of self-esteem and pride. And this further divides Macedonian society. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the Patriotic Front Bulgaria should be an active factor in the matters of fate of the Western Balkans. Official Sofia must be the stabilizing factor, the mediator offering consensus solutions between Macedonia, Serbia, Kosovo and Albania. Bulgaria is obliged to have this role today. She is bound by her historical vocations to her countrymen in the Balkans. After all, nearly 2 million live in the Western Balkans. Bulgarians. We must therefore appreciate the concern of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister's speech, but also encourage them more. Macedonia is not only dear to us, Macedonia was the main topic with which Bulgaria lived in half of its new history. Macedonia gave contemporary Bulgaria the revival and a large part of the Bulgarian cultural and political elite. Macedonia is recorded in our family memory and deserves our support. Let us not forget that Bulgaria was the first country to recognise the independence of the Republic of Macedonia. Our goal is not just to bring this one or that one into the European Union. Bulgaria must show the path of the Western Balkans to the European Union, but not unconditionally, as the extreme liberals are trying to convince us today. Just because we are a leader in the Western Balkans on the road to the European Union, we must set clear conditions: stopping the persecution of people with Bulgarian national consciousness and stopping anti-Bulgarian rhetoric; reforming the political system; clearing of the forgeries that create tensions, from the curricula and refusing territorial claims. In Macedonia, every day the community of people with Bulgarian self-consciousness and Bulgarian citizenship grows. We can't abandon these people for a moment. Today, the government in Skopje must know that Macedonia's most direct route to Brussels is not through Belgrade, Pristina, Tirana or even less through Ankara, this road passes through Sofia. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not right for this subject to be used for internal political speculation. We heard during these days and the statement of some factors from the DPS that this was a result of hate speech due to rhetoric and the Bulgarian model was preferable. This is not the case, ladies and gentlemen, because it is this time that the DPS shows us, leading us to the Macedonian scenario, encapsulating ethnic groups, separizing ethnic religious communities and confrontation with the majority, and the path for integration is exactly the opposite "reliance of all individual human rights, not inventing and forming groups of racial, ethnic, religious or whatever principle. Dear colleagues, I take the opportunity to call the government of the Republic of Bulgaria for several things: 1. Much more active but also demanding policy on the European future of the countries to the west of us. 2. Developing a strategy for Bulgarian communities abroad and active Bulgarian policy in this direction. 3. Bulgaria must express its support for the civil energy we are seeing today in Skopje. 4. Bulgaria must continue to insist on a good neighbouring treaty with the Republic of Macedonia. 5. To be presented a clear plan by the government in the event of a deepening of conflicts and the emergence of refugee problems. Ladies and gentlemen, Bulgaria must come out of its role as a passive observer. It is time to end with the quiet diplomacy and start actively taking care of the Bulgarian communities in the Balkans, defending the Bulgarian national interests and European values as they do successfully or more successfully other Balkan countries, and as an example other European countries. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Patriotic Front.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u43	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. Statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Bloc, co-chair, MP Nayden Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! DECLARATION of the Reformation Bloc Parliamentary Group in connection with 10 years from the signing of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Union and for actions to deepen the European integration of the Republic of Bulgaria On 25 April 2015, it was 10 years since the signing of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Union, which was ratified by the National Assembly on 11 May 2005. This was the result of our efforts for value and institutional belonging to the European family. During these 10 years Bulgaria has proven itself to be a reliable and loyal partner, consistently defending European values. In key areas such as energy, migration and asylum, security of the Union's borders, the European Union's attitude to third countries, Bulgaria is sustainable and solidarity protecting the interests of the European Union. The Republic of Bulgaria is working actively to deepen European integration, in the context of which our accession to the Schengen area is a significant national priority. The Reformation Block Parliamentary Group defines as unprecedented the fact that 10 years after the signing of the Treaty of Accession to the European Union, our country is outside Schengen, on proven readiness for this. We believe that this process should not be linked to other European monitoring and control mechanisms. At the same time, based on the increased attention of our European partners, we emphasise the consolidated political will to achieve sustainable results in areas such as justice, the fight against corruption and organised crime, where deep reforms are already underway. We note that Europe is facing new realities in the area of security. Only with joint efforts can we respond to the challenges arising from increased migration pressure and terrorism. Only full access to all Schengen opportunities for cooperation and exchange of information will ensure that Europe is indeed an area of freedom and security. We of the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group declare that it is time for the Council of the European Union to give a clear signal of its support and trust after the positive assessments received by the European Commission, the European Parliament and the European Council. [[Applause from the Reformation Block.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Zelenogorski. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the Chairman of the Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms expressed its political assessment of the events in neighbouring Macedonia in Kumanovo on the day of the conflict. However, the conflict in Kumanovo comes to remind us that the transition from totalitarianism to democratic civil society in all the Balkan countries that were part of the Soviet bloc was marked by bloody interethnic and interreligious conflicts that took the lives of hundreds of thousands of peaceful citizens. The only country that managed to achieve a bloodless, peaceful transition from totalitarianism to democracy was the Republic of Bulgaria. Notice this is happening precisely in the country where Western analysts and analysts beyond the ocean expected to ignite the ethnic conflict because of the severe heritage of the revival process, because there is no doubt that in the other Balkan countries there were no revival processes. Where is the explanation right in the country that conducted a revival process to make a peaceful transition?! No political bias is able to deny the undisputed fact that the bloodless transition in Bulgaria became possible precisely because of the built Bulgarian ethnic model of tolerance. Of course, this model is a product of Bulgarian civil society, but it could not be realized without political will. It was the Movement for Rights and Freedoms that played a special role here, because it chose to develop not as a closed, ethno-religious party, but as a national liberal party. Today, to claim that the DPS model has actually failed in Macedonia is not just incorrect from the point of view of the facts, it is also rude, deliberate, I would say, a cynical political statement that we hear from the Ppatriotic Front and Reformist Block partners. Ladies and gentlemen, in all other Balkan countries, we have ethnic parties. Bulgaria chose the other model of the integration model, the model of the presentation of differences in Bulgarian society through national parties. And this is the basis of the Bulgarian ethnic model. If it were internationalised, if it had been deployed in the Western Balkans, we would not be witnessing these bloody conflicts today, and therefore we say that the events in Kumanovo update the geopolitical value of the Bulgarian ethnic model as an alternative to the bloody clashes. We call for a common consensus assessment of Bulgarian ethnic model as the most valuable capital of the Bulgarian transition, as the most valuable achievement of Bulgarian democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, we have recently presented a comprehensive concept of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms of our colleagues from ALDE and to the leaders of all liberal parties from Europe, including those who are not yet associated with ALDE. This is a concept of building a new strategy for the accelerated integration of the Western Balkans into the European Union, such as preventing frozen conflicts in the Balkans from waking up on one or another basis. In this sense, the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms categorically does not accept the proposed by Jean Claude Juncker five-year Moratorium for the future enlargement of the European Union. I believe that Bulgaria as a member of the European Union should be the leader of the process of building a new Strategy for the accelerated expansion of the Western Balkans, because there are problems inherited from history in this region. This region has historical themes that weigh on modern politics and hide the risk of becoming modern dividing lines. To absolutate the EU's criterion, the countries to have decided in advance all their open conflict issues is like telling Serbia, Albania, Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina that their membership in the European Union is impossible. Because in the Balkans there are problems between countries and peoples that can be solved not before, but with and through their membership in the European Union. Bulgaria should not look at Western Balkan membership from the point of view of some misunderstood national interest, because the interest of Bulgaria's interests is to border the countries of the European Union. Furthermore, the integration of the Western Balkans is not because of one or another ruling konncture, because of one or another prime minister, it is not because of Gruevski. This perspective of EU membership must stand before the civil societies of young democracies so that they do not lose the meaning of their further democratization. Of course, throughout this process Bulgaria must respect the interests of both the Bulgarian minority in the Republic of Macedonia and the Bulgarian minorities in the other Western countries, because membership in the European Union means that these countries should develop as democracies in which the rule of law implies that all representatives of minorities should be treated equally with the majority. Something which is why Bulgaria in its eighth year of EU membership is still out. One problem Bulgaria has not yet managed to solve. My call is: what Bulgaria can participate in the European value system with its contribution is not denied because the denial of the Bulgarian ethnic model is precisely the placing of the narrow party interest above the interests of Bulgaria, above the European image of Bulgaria. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that both Bulgaria and Romania must be the most reliable partner in the Western Balkans, not only Macedonia, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, because if we let the Western Balkans stay in the grey zone between the East and the West, they will be subject to ongoing provocations both from internal and external factors. Macedonia's problem today is not only Macedonia's problem, this is the region's problem, this is Bulgaria's problem, this is the European Union's problem. This idea we will put to the attention of our liberal colleagues at the Regional Meeting of Liberal Party Leaders from Eastern Europe in September in Sofia, we will develop a draft resolution to stay on the European Parliament's attention in order to rethink the short-sighted five-year moratorium imposed by Jean Claude Juncker. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u47	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria has the word of the people representative Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, it is understandable that when such disturbing facts and actions exist in neighbouring Macedonia, the parliamentary groups in the Bulgarian National Assembly react and present their position on what is happening there. Not for the first time historically in these neighboring lands events are causing attention in Bulgaria. However, the overall process in recent months in the Republic of Macedonia, and especially what has happened in Kumanovo, must be seen in a broader context. Here I use the case to address the discussed topic with the Bulgarian ethnic and religious model. We really have to admit that in the late 1980s and early 1990s Bulgaria, including because of the positions of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, did not allow the strengthening and burning of ethnic and religious tensions. The fact is that at that time Bulgaria was one of the most critical points of this opposition, and not only for internal reasons, but also for external factors that acted in this direction. We must give what we deserve to these politicians, parties and institutions, who with joint efforts prevented Bulgaria from entering such a dangerous plot. There are many disputes about the role of one party or another, but we really should not ignore two that have lasting significance in Bulgarian political and social life. I would therefore like to recognise here the role of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, because it also contributed to preventing real tensions, provocations and risks that could reverse the course of the country's public-political processes. I also allow myself to ask myself whether today the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is consistent in this position, whether it continues not only in words, but also as actions to prove its development as a Bulgarian national party, which is not influenced by external factors. This may be a cause for conversation not so much in plenary as within the framework of the Movement itself. Because each party must look at itself, assess what its role is, what are the current risks and challenges to its development. In this regard, I believe that some of the proposals made by the Patriotic Front to the Government and to other institutions will also contribute today to Bulgaria forming a correct position on the events in Macedonia, of course, in terms of European criteria and democracy, but seeking to understand all the factors that affect the situation and its deterioration in recent weeks and months. We must not agree with the establishment of a moratorium on the enlargement of the European Union. It is not about tolerating individual countries and uncritically accepting their claims to the enlargement of the European Union, but placing such a long time limit at the centre of which the requirements and application of the criteria to each of the individual countries are, in itself, a factor for increasing instability, for demotivating to the fulfilment of European requirements. We are entering an increasingly unstable period that is at risk of affecting the Balkans, and in this case Macedonia is not the only element in this instability, because combining such processes with what is happening in the Middle East, with extremist and Islamist movements, with military actions in Ukraine, are a much wider geography of this instability and this opposition. Therefore, I think that we need to clarify the factors that act for the destabilization of the Republic of Macedonia, the Bulgarian institutions to undertake everything that is necessary to maintain stability in the country and to activate political dialogue at European level and with the Republic of Macedonia, not to allow attempts to bring some of the problems that currently exist, including at the Council of Europe level, by pushing some positions on the existence of a Macedonian minority in Bulgaria. We are here to make it clear that we should talk about the Bulgarian nation not only as a collection of separate ethnic religious groups, because the admission of such a fact is already limiting the integration of Bulgarian citizens, the creation of a feeling of a national community and the maintenance and development of the Bulgarian nation. This is the Bulgarian lesson from these events and it should be shown in important moments that are placed in the Bulgarian Parliament. Unfortunately, in many cases we, instead of contributing to this national cohesion on the occasion of marking different historical dates, of discussing some or other topics ourselves underestimate what can contribute and raise the self-esteem of Bulgarian citizens and reduce the differences that come from history and are common in terms of different political positions. Therefore, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us be responsible for what is being commented today and help us form Bulgarian positions on these topics, which, as far as possible, make European knowledge and contribute to the formation of the right positions of the European institutions. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP left Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. For a statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had no intention of speaking, but, so to speak, I am provoked by the speeches so far and I will immediately admit that I am disappointed by the lack of in-depth analysis. Almost all the parliamentary groups have spoken, but I have not heard a real analysis of what is happening in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Because that's the exact name of the internationally recognized name of this country. What's happening out there is the result of a long-standing fire. He was set on fire from the outside, from outside factors. To talk about our western neighbor, about some events there, as if these were climate events, a change in time, is just a superficial, frivolous and lack of professional political perspective. Since I have been dealing with the subject for years in a publicist plan, I can tell you that I have followed over the past two decades not only what is happening in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, but who is the reason for what is happening now. What's going on over there? Albanian terrorists are attacking law enforcement officers. I will just remind you that about 14 years ago, these terrorists were specially raised, created, trained and funded by the US services. That's what the Western press acknowledged. I'm going to remind you of a headline from the late '90s. The Guardian. The question was asked: Why are we financing these KLA gangsters? Then they were called KOK, and now ANO, but they're the same criminals. Why are we funding the KLA gangsters? The Western press was asking a question. The Bulgarian press and Bulgarian media, of course, kept quiet on these topics. They're not talking right now! The then government, whose coalition partners were some of the speakers who spoke here just now, the then government of Bulgaria, not only gave the sky to our sky, to be bombarded, hit and tossed tons of explosions over our neighbor then called Yugoslavia, but also approved silently all this behavior of separation, the creation of terrorist cores and the burning of fire in a territory that we have always said was part of Bulgarian history. All of this, Bulgarian politicians and governments observed absolutely no criticism at all, when in the so-called "Ochrid Agreement" an Albanian language was recognised as official in Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. What is happening today in Kumanovo was prepared and directed by special envoys of the United States. Remember Richard Holdbrook's odysity figure. Well, he was directing literally the creation of terrorist cores, all those who then made the illegal state of Kosovo, the largest drug distributor in Europe. Again, the then coalition Bulgarian government, whose coalition partners now stand in this room, but are coalition partners of another party, acknowledged this country called Kosovo. At the moment, it is an absolute fire, an absolute hearth that ignites such conflicts and provocations. The Americans have created the largest base in Europe -- Bond style -- in Kosovo. From there they are already playing the geopolitical game with which, whenever they want, they can set fire and set some terrorists to make such provocations, incidents and murders as they have become. My fellow Members, this is not a fruit of interethnic squabble! It is naive to say that interethnic feuds, a language of hatred, or I do not know what caused what is happening! No, these are keys pressed and these keys, as I said, were pressed by the special envoys of the United States. Let me just remind you that a former Macedonian prime minister, Ljubcho Georgievski, literally expelled James Pardew. Do you remember that person? He was for a while an ambassador of the United States to Bulgaria. This is the same man and his predecessors from the American Embassy insisted that there should be a handshake party in our country. William Montgomery, who doesn't remember him, goes through the archives and see. However, the story does not start from the October 2014 elections. The story is older. Remember Montgomery, who used to come here and scold us and make us change the Constitution so we could have a handyman's party. Remember the work of James Pardew, who also told us that we did not allow parties to be formed here on ethnic and religious grounds. That was a big miss, and it had to be fixed! All these US emissaries are behind the conflict we are now seeing in Macedonia. We have to say this out loud! Before we talk about the European future of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, first we must name things by their names and identify the causes of these conflicts, because all fires in the Balkans, burned in the last two decades, were caused by the Americans, by their anti-European policies. Then we get blamed for living with the complex, that, you see, there in the Balkans, is a powder keg that can always go off. This complex, this guilt has always been planted on our peoples who have lived here for centuries, I would say, for millennia, by the so-called Great Powers. What is happening now is also part of the game of the so-called Great Powers. Who are the Great Powers, I've spoken a lot already. When speakers speak here who say that this is an artificial state and that a Macedonian minority in Bulgaria does not, yes, I personally agree. I've written tons of pages on this. Only who is currently saying that there is a Macedonian minority in Bulgaria?! Says the U.S. State Department. Open the CIA guide and see what is the ethnic composition of Bulgaria! There was a certain percentage of Macedonians in Bulgaria that said this not the Comintern in 1934, but said today's Comintern from Washington. However, I do not see the reaction of our politicians, except in my face, to say: "Dear Americans, correct your guide! There is no Macedonian minority in Bulgaria! I say and recall this, because tomorrow, here at my place, there can be the kind of fire that is now burning at BERM. In the same way, some people can be instigated and they can kill other people, and this can be declared an interethnic or interfaith clash, and certain political parties can be accused of infecting hatred. We've already heard that, and it's very often speculated. Never have the conflicts in the Balkans been the result of hatred or hatred of one nation against another. They have always been caused from the outside to be able to ignite the war and the corresponding factors to profit from it. Now the same war is being played. Now the conflict, the fire in Macedonia, is triggered by the Americans to end certain energy projects. They say very clearly: "See what we can do. We can burn this in any country we want. Tomorrow this can happen in Bulgaria! You think that being members of the European Union and NATO can't happen?! It'll be like two and two! I have been warning for months that there has been an opposition that we are already seeing - very unhealthy opposition from certain media that so far have not wanted to hear about these issues - verbal, ethnic and so on, and now they are blowing them up. This opposition is again dictated from the outside. In our country we are preparing in the same way a similar conflict to justify the permanent presence of foreign troops, the so-called peacekeepers. Therefore, when we comment and want to come up with a position of the Bulgarian Parliament, we need to do a deeper analysis, dear colleagues! Otherwise, there's no point in just measuring our interparty arguments. That doesn't make sense, because it looks like short-sighted domestic politics. It doesn't lead to solving problems. For example, is the problem with the possible refugee flow solved? Has the government taken any measures?! Is there a strategy on this? No! I don't hear the ruling coalition asking the question. I have heard the advice to resign the Prime Minister of the BUSR from our prime minister to a foreign prime minister. And this is so unacceptable that I just wonder what kind of world they live in?! How can you advise a prime minister to resign?! That would have made things better! Ladies and gentlemen, if the Bulgarian Parliament, the Bulgarian National Assembly decides to come up with some position, a statement on what is happening in Macedonia, which threatens us, I am ready and our parliamentary group is ready to participate in such a working group. I'll say right away I'm not optimistic. However, this requires an in-depth analysis. We must clearly say who is causing the conflicts in the Balkans, in Europe, who is currently preparing an anti-European one, and I stress that an anti-European policy is putting an end to energy projects that are useful for a number of European countries?! Who shatters Europe's economy through fictional and creative sanctions?! Who continues to work against European interest and confront countries in this oldest part of the world?! Who is he?! This current, sacred question, which I put to you, to think, to think. If it comes to a joint declaration, I am prepared to participate in it and propose a serious analysis of what is going on. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u51	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. Any other statements? The way you're leading it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u52	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I'm taking this procedure to pay less attention to you personally than to the non-negotiable that...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u53	There's no such procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u54	She's with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u55	Only to me it can be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u56	Only to you, yes. [[Laughter, excitement.]] I'm gonna talk about you, and think about who you're talking about! [[Loud laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u57	You talk about me!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u58	I'm talking about you, Mr. Chairman. You should have paid attention and interrupted the speaker, as he three times mentioned the.......................................................................................... In this Parliament, the Bulgarian National Assembly, expressing the will of the Bulgarian people, first recognized in the world the Brotherhood State under the name "Macedonia." I think it is unacceptable for a Bulgarian MP to use in this Chamber the abbreviation.............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u59	Thank you. Any other statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u60	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u61	No, let's not get into this. [[Noise and shout out loud!]] We'll continue with the billing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u62	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u63	It's the way it's supposed to be. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u64	Mr. Chairman, you cannot bear the fact that you are being called upon to interrupt a speaker who has simply used an international standard.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u65	As you saw, I didn't interrupt it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u66	It's an international print. The colleague who came out here is right that the National Assembly recognised the Republic of Macedonia, but Mr. Siderov said: "The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, as is known in the international community. This is no violation and I do not understand at all why the speaker came out and you allowed him to make such a remark. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u67	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. That is, you are defending my manner of conduct, and your procedure is not in the way of conduct. Thank you. We're moving on to the Bill. For a statement she had signed up before all the statements Prof. Svetla Bachvarova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u68	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing is the exception of farmers to install level meters, fiscal devices. I would like to remind you a little bit of the history of the Bill, which was adopted in a hurry without any debate. After New Year's Eve, we had to start the debate about exactly what was created legislatively and how it will be implemented. As a result, we have proposed that a bill, which is not only farmers, should also be excluded from the scope of this sanction. For me, that's a penalty. Most colleagues from GERB, who spoke, focused on the analysis, which was prepared by the Ministry of Finance at a much later stage. And in this analysis is repeated the same "30" 40% unregulated payment of fuels, in which they are guilty not just anyone but farmers and somewhere the construction industry is lurking. I'd like to object, first of all, to the analysis. His careful reading and the data offered in it do not in any way lead to this finding. Firstly, by agreeing in the proposed or drawn conclusion at the beginning of the analysis that the insufficient collection of excise duty and VAT from sold fuel must be sanctioned and the obligations to the State must be paid, with which we agree accordingly, but I would like to assure you that the increase in budget revenues is not sought where the problem is. And the problem is not farmers. In terms of the precision of this analysis, my first argument against its conclusions is the fact that the data available for the last three years is an analysis that leads to the conclusion that we have 40% unregulated imports of fuels and unpaid excise duty. This cannot be true because the source of information is not correct. As you know, the fuel-fueling information system at the NRA began operating on 15 May 2013. That is, if there is any information about what is happening to the fuels, we have it for two years, not three years, as is the analysis itself. In addition, it is argued that most likely 30% of fuels do not pay taxes. However, the collection of excise duties has nothing to do with gas stations. Fuels are exempted from consumption in a tax warehouse and these tax warehouses are under continuous control of the Customs Agency. Why are we looking at the fuel-oil warehouses? The colleague rightly pointed out that these are not government gas stations, at least for the reason that they are not retailers and are not offices, but companies. In the end, fuel oil stores are declared not to be able to prove in an indisputable way that they do not carry out an unregulated sale of fuels or are not refueling for which VAT has been paid. But let us recall that what is currently operating in 2014, we have absolute, total control of the Ministry of Finance on fuels. In 2012, a change was adopted in the Law where we have a double declaration of the quantity of fuels: on the one hand, of the recipient, on the other hand. And that's what happens on the day of fuel delivery. This double control creates prerequisites for the National Revenue Agency to have at any given time information about what fuels have been delivered, what quantities and their respective use. If, as you suggest, level meters are introduced with fiscal devices, what does this mean that we will receive more information with greater frequency? However, this information will not be sufficient and is not sufficient to assess the risk of illegal fuels. This information cannot serve anyone because, if there is any idea that the supply of fuels is linked to a certain risk, physical checks are required. The Ministry of Finance still does not answer the question of how many physical checks it has done. And since physical checks identify the violations that we are about, these physical checks and now have the opportunity to be carried out in accordance with the legislation in force. The second finding in this analysis in quotes, I dare say, is that the company warehouses of agricultural companies are not known, that is, they are absolutely illegal and incomprehensible to the National Revenue Agency. So it was necessary to gather information for 3 or 4 months, which showed absolutely nothing. The rule is that in each fuel transaction to be concluded and payment is made, but no later than five days, the information immediately goes to the National Revenue Agency and not only the object is known, the full information about the person who purchased the fuel is known. So what kind of uncertainty is it, and what are we really looking to do with the need to form or make the proposal to form or place level meters? The analysis claims that 700 gas stations in small settlements have closed as a result of unfair competition from the company's fuel and lubricant stores. The truth is that such sites farmers have long ago, and the mass closure of small gas stations happened in 2012, when again the same government now demanded small gas stations to set level meters and they failed to cope with this overcost. Because, fellow Members, we're not talking at 5 grand. BGN, and we're talking more than 20,000. BGN, without the maintenance of such systems. I would like to ask: who will benefit from the purchase of nearly 18 thousand objects, as it eventually proved to exist, precisely these devices and this information for what purpose? In our view, the idea is not to increase control, namely to implement the policy with which we benefit certain companies, which are ready to make the relevant deliveries in a short period of time. We're one of the Bill's importers. We maintain it and we are ready to debate the possibility of using all fuel control mechanisms, but farmers are not the ones who are the offenders and Minister Goranov in Parliament control apologizes to farmers for the extremes that are in the analyses and claims that the Ministry of Finance has on farmers. Dear colleagues of GERB, I understand your position, but each of you in the region knows what this is about, because especially in rural areas, the backbone of the economy is agriculture. The burden of these additional costs will worsen the situation of the industry in terms not only of the positions in each population but also in terms of macroeconomic indicators. I hope you will realize your position and find arguments in what I say about changing your opinion. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. - What's the line? Mr. Mihov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, I am sure that the ideas in the motives of the bill that you have tabled and supported are very good. I am sure of that, and I am far from the idea that you are using farmers to make populism through the introduction of such a bill. I'm a long way from thinking about it! I am also far from thinking that there is something unfair or that farmers should call them in some way. But agree with me that in every industry among all regulars there are also those who want to break. I'm going to give you a specific example, and from the practice, not from the theory. A large farmer, a large, worked tens of thousands of acres. Its entire agricultural production of corn grain, wheat and so on goes to export with ships. A whole summer's harvest campaign. With 20 trucks, the so-called "gondoli" he drives his production to these ships by charging from the department gas station. But the campaign is over. The same trucks, the so-called "gondolas', during the winter, autumn and spring period drive inert materials, such as a transport service from construction companies' careers, asphalt bases and so on. This is now a transport service. And he's charging from the same department gas stations, from the same! At some point, when we had to calculate the cost of agricultural machinery, it turns out that the specialized technique that needs to reap, to plow, in winter it must have reaped snow, eagles are snow or something. Because the same technique is used for other purposes. Not to mention how many cleaning companies pass the same technique. [[the President signals that time has run out]] in their reports and apply for snow cleaning and all the other things you can think of in winter. Those are the violations! Please answer me: how would you handle this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u71	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Mrs. Ahmedova, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, very clearly and accurately articulate the issues, but I think a very important point is missing because it opposes the opinion of the people's representation against the opinion of the executive. You have witnessed how in the Committee on Agriculture and Food all MPs agreed that this bill should be adopted. However, because the executive does not want to be adopted, the views are now slightly different. The question arises: do lawmakers have to comply with the executive's demands, or does it have to be the other way around? Are we a parliamentary republic, or are we a republic that has to meet any executive's demands?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u73	Thank you. Next line? I can't see. Would you like a douche? Professor Bachvarova, come in for the back of the two lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u74	Thank you. Dear Mr. Mihov, you confirm my thesis that there are sufficiently clear mechanisms that can control this process, because the physical checks that the NRA must carry out are one of the elements! Level gauges will not provide additional information for risk assessment. The second thing. Farmers registered in not one, two or three registers shall receive reduced excise duty on fuels for which they are reported by vouchers. Absolutely, precisely and clearly it can be said how much agriculture consumes and how fuel is used. Apart from that, there's a charge of 7 liters per decare. There is absolutely no problem for farmers to be checked more and more, and for those cases that you are talking about to be sanctioned. There's no question about that. We agree. But all farmers should be placed in the group of those who are breaking the Law or have the feeling that they should not pay the excise duty............................................................................................ That is why the proposed change is an exception in this respect for farmers. Otherwise, checks should also be based on a risk assessment. Ms. Ahmedova, the fact is that our proposals are from January 15th. During this time we expected there to be a dialogue that the colleagues from GERB talked about, in order to reach an agreement and it was seen that after all the problem was not in the Ordinance in the Law, which was adopted in December. Our proposal is the option to resolve the issue. He's the only one because with the Regulation, there's no way these changes that we're talking about can happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Kirilov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Please, on the basis of art. 80, para. 1 sentence third to be extended by one week the deadline for submission of proposals between the first and second reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, No 502-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 March 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u77	Thank you. A reverse opinion? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Danail Kirilov to extend the period of the bill read by one week. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. My fellow Members, as planned, we are continuing with blitzcontrol. Before announcing a break, I would like to inform you that the so-called Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Mrs. Meglena Kuneva and Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Mr. Tomislav Donchev will be present. Due to participation in the meeting of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation in Parliamentary Control under art. 104 of the Rules do not have the opportunity to participate Deputy Prime Minister Rumyana Bachvarova and Deputy Prime Minister Ivaylo Kalfin. Dear colleagues, I'm announcing a break until 12:00 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u78	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL BY C.E. 104 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. In the last two hours of the meeting every first Wednesday every month, the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Ministers appear before the National Assembly and respond to current oral questions concerning the general policy of the government addressed by the MPs at the meeting itself. The questions referred may not contain requests for detailed numerical data. According to the texts of the same article is started by the group with the highest numbers, and this is the parliamentary group of GERB. Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u79	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Given that the Prime Minister is about to meet with the Trilateral Council now a responsible and important meeting for the affairs of the state, on behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group, I propose that the opposition first ask the Prime Minister and that our questions then we can ask them to the Deputy Prime Ministers. You know that this is also the day of the opposition, so we give the opposition the first opportunity to begin, to ask questions to the prime minister, so that he can then be released and to work on his affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u80	I think it makes sense what Mr. Velchev suggested. If you agree, we will proceed. The word for question Mr. Krasimir Yankov, on behalf of the Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u81	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister! My question is to Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration, Minister for the Interior. Bulgaria has the most protected and cheapest identification documents. In recent days we have seen huge queues, chaos and difficulties in issuing personal documents. Thousands of citizens spend whole days spending time in queues in front of passport services in front of the Ministry of Interior districts. [[(GERB lines: Where did you see them?]] Much of our countrymen will also spend their vacations waiting to replace their personal documents. During the last week we have heard an explanation such as: The problem with the central server in Sofia, which delayed the issuance of identity documents, during the beginning of the summer months, traditionally people change their documents more widely and so on. What are the reasons and what measures have you provided for to overcome the chaos and difficulties of citizens, and how will you reduce the time that citizens need to lose to replace their identity documents? Because, Madam Minister, creating difficulties for citizens in obtaining a service shows one thing and it is a lack of skills for management and organization of administrative services by your trusted Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u82	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u83	Dear Mr. Yankov, I think you asked this question as a question in Friday's control. I am not convinced that it meets the requirement for a common policy because it has a very specific character. The blitzcontrol is about common policies. Yeah, we're watching this process. We're discussing measures right now. On the specific issue to be addressed on Friday, I will answer you in more detail.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u84	Yes, for a common policy this is comprehensive. [[Noise and lines.]] You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u85	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister! Mrs. Bachvarova, you confirm what I have said that you do not have the capacity to provide administrative service to citizens. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] More than ten days is this problem and you are not ready to answer what measures you are ready to take. You explain to Bulgarian citizens, to our entire society, that you are analyzing the situation. Do you understand now? You have probably now understood because you have become an extraordinary Minister of the Interior, now you understand that in this particular year more than 1 million Bulgarian citizens will replace their personal documents. The Ministry of Interior should have this preventive information and prepare itself so that there is no crowding and that the Bulgarian citizens will not lose their time in queues. Prime Minister, you are monitoring the security sector. And the administrative services in the Ministry of Interior are also part of the government's commitment, so running away from an answer is one thing only.. You do not have the capacity, you do not know what to do and you just warned Bulgarian citizens that they should actually spend time on leave in order to have the new identity documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u86	Mr. Iankov, another answer was made to you by Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister that this issue is not about blitzcontrol. Will you use your right to the back? I think it's unnecessary. Thank you. The next question is from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is in a vulnerable area in recent months and years, namely the common health policy. My question is to the Prime Minister: we have seen reforms recently, in the words of the Minister of Health, Prime Minister, in this area. In our opinion, these are not reforms. These are pseudo-reforms. We have made our assessment very clear several times. The BSP colleagues did the same thing. We are, of course, talking about the Health Insurance Act, the basic and the supplementary package, the nationalisation, the next Law on Medical Institutions, where there are also very interesting and unacceptable, not only opposition parties in parliament, issues. If the assessment of opposition parties is natural, that this is a pseudo-reform, that health reform leads to more expensive, more inaccessible healthcare, if our assessments do not accept that there are texts that contribute to lobbying, to stopping competition, then the reactions of other institutions should have impressed you. I am referring to the Association of Private Hospitals, the Bulgarian Hospital Association, the Association of Municipal Hospitals, the staff of the University Hospital.St. Ivan Rilski, the dispensaries of Venereological, Psychiatric and Cancer Diseases, patient organizations, former ministers in the face of Ilko Semerdzhiev and Dr. Konstantinov, who was your minister, the new management of the Medical Union, KRIB, which came out with a strong assessment that this is authoritarianism, and also some MPs. I also include MPs from GERB's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u88	You don't have time for this, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u89	My question, Prime Minister, is: are you following this process of reform and are you not afraid that all the countries that are criticising this reform may be right, and this failure will not be a label of Minister Moskov, but of the government of GERB? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Kardzhaliev. Prime Minister, come in for an answer. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly! The theme of health protection is a topic in which... I start backwards as concerns. If somewhere in our previous term we had the most gaps or I can say that the least we did was in health care. Then we slipped along the plane that the more money we give and raise the budget of healthcare, the better the service we provide to the Bulgarian citizens should be accordingly. You know the numbers better than I do because you're in parliament for longer years. In practice, you know that the budgets of the Ministry of Health, the Health Insurance Fund are growing every year, increasing, increasing. Ten years ago, it was a billion, and now it's over three billion, probably 200 million. It's not as important as a specific number. That's a lot more than that! Only the last 4-5 years in healthcare have spilled out in the order of 12-13-14 billion. lv. Huge amounts! In this area, the quality of the service... In my opinion, there shouldn't be any problems there with that kind of money. You know, in the previous term, I replaced four ministers, including those I quoted as giving an assessment, but they failed. With Minister Moskov, I have held maybe a dozen meetings with Mrs. Daritkova, as well as with Minister Moskov's team. From what they have introduced me to, I think they are trying to do something very meaningful, to fix the problems and to solve them, especially in drug policy with expensive medicines and generics, and in public procurement as competitions for the huge funds that are being given, the obligations that hospitals have. My perception is that hospitals, on the one hand, who are constantly complaining about lack of funding, are actually holding on to the banks millions. You're holding money for interest, and at the same time you're going to complain that you don't have money. I ask you to show a little more patience, a credit of trust to Minister Moskov, although in parliament it is fashionable that the first vote of distrust to any government is on the subject of health protection. At least from what I've talked about, I see the effort, the diligence, the desire. I ask you to show us another week, let's say, because about that much Minister Moskov told me that we would be able to see it on a chart, on tabs what it would look like, and therefore stand behind it as reform. That's all I can say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u92	Thank you, Prime Minister. For a replica, the People's Representative Tuncher Kardzhaliev. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We, Prime Minister, are inclined, even considering the unacceptable language, will not go back two or three months, accept and be patient. Moreover, we accept all his findings about the current state of health care. Moreover, we accept the goals. Provided that there are people who are leading experts and recognize that these objectives are uncircumcisionable the objective of Bulgarian healthcare, there is no way we can fail to accept them. It's a different matter. It is heard that this is almost a watermelon crust subjected to partners in coalition management. We don't mess around. If you notice, we say nothing about the behaviour and characteristics of which many different media and opponents of the Minister speak. We're worried and that's why you take this signal as an alarm. If really this silent behavior of GERB leads to some edifice decisions, it leads to emphasising someone's inadequacy, if it really happens to have a failure in this area, it is not, however, a state-owned and responsible behaviour. I don't have the confidence to give you advice. I'm not asking you to wear those boots according to some media from the previous term. I ask you to listen at least to people who have undisputed qualities and knowledge, especially some GERB MPs, because they share my findings and our opinions, but in the name of coalition security, in the name of collusion they dare not say them out loud. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] We are very worried about you once again stressing...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u94	The weather, Mr. Kardzhaliev!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u95	...for the future of health care in the Republic of Bulgaria with this minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u96	Thank you, dear Mr. Kardzhaliev. Here's your coat, Mr. Prime Minister. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u97	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kardzhaliev, in one such coalition management and successes and failures are common. So in this conspiracy that someone wants to put watermelon bark, or vice versa, or that GERB MPs are so silent... I for a reason told you with Mr. Moskov and Mrs. Daritkova that I had the conversation together to hear the opinion of both the parliament and her as chairman... Personally, I have great confidence in Minister Moskov as a specialist, as a doctor and as a person who could with his team of deputy ministers handle it. We all want this health reform so badly! You know, there's a three-sided thing going on right now. That's why I left Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin and the Finance Minister to make the conversation go away. With the pension reform, these are things that do not concern only GERB, not only reformers, not DPS or BSP, not to miss the attack, the Patriotic Front, ABC, BDZ, the independent MPs. I apologize if I missed someone. There are a lot of parties in this parliament. In this regard, we find ourselves at a very disadvantage compared to the previous cabinet. Then Oresharski had two questions from GERB and this ended the blitzcontrol, while now is something quite different. I therefore rely very much on your responsibility to use time in more important subjects. I see what the Health Department is trying to do. The health of the entire people is the primary task of the government. We are recalculating now the pension reform with raising age, because with health reform, we will raise life expectancy. Once again, I'm asking for your patience. I hope that in ten days we will have the reform signed and that we can debate which is more correct or incorrect and hear more specialists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u98	Thank you, Prime Minister. A question from the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Bloc "The People's Representative Martin Dimitrov." Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, to develop the question. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u99	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen and ladies Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! We amended the Bankruptcy Act with the votes of GERB, the Reformation Block and the Patriotic Front. We specifically recorded in art. 12a, para. 2, p. 12 an opportunity to have an international investigation for the CCB to follow the path of money, some of them to be returned, as they were returned to a number of countries. The persons involved shall be identified and held accountable. We, as a Bulgarian parliament, have introduced this legal opportunity.. there is already it in black and white. Before that, you remember that we asked for these actions to be taken by BNB. They didn't do anything like that, and they didn't explain it. Now the Deposit Guarantee Fund can decide to hire a large international company, people who have not sung in bars with Bulgarian businessmen to follow the money, to see, to identify the persons involved and to start their return at least part of them. Prime Minister, I am addressing you because the Council of Ministers appoints the Chairman of the Deposit Guarantee Fund, the Chairman of the Board of Directors. Today you should turn to him, including publicly and say that both you and the ruling coalition expect a large, authoritative international firm, which has already managed to return money, to be hired so that the truth about KTB can be brought out; to seek responsibility, to track the money. They are not spent, they are somewhere and these people must bear responsibility, must be pursued by justice and by the Bulgarian institutions with all the power of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Prime Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u101	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I have a chance that I also have a few specific figures. Every Wednesday, I hold a meeting with the services, the revenue agencies, the NRA and the Customs, the prosecutors about the fight against smuggling. The morning of the meeting on behalf of the Deposit Guarantee Fund, the finance minister informed us that we are already in the final. I will read it exactly as text and figures: the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund developed an invitation for a proposal that was sent to interested companies on 29 April 2015, with a response period of 6 May 2015. Eleven companies responded and sent their proposals within the deadline. Further questions were sent after a review of the tenders and replies were received on 8 May 2015. Initially approved candidates identified by the Fund and notified on 12 May 2015 will be invited to submit their approach and action plan, including options for their price proposals on 18 May 2015. The decision which candidates to be proposed to the Syndicates of CCB in accordance with art. 31, para. 1, t. 17 of the Bankruptcy Act will be taken no later than 21 May this year. The Syndicates should immediately begin negotiations on the conclusion of contracts between them and the proposed candidates, which we expect to conclude by 30 May this year. That is to say the commitment that you and we have made to be chosen, and will be chosen the largest company most likely by criteria.. raised the most money in similar situations and returned respectively to the state. I make a commitment if you want to listen to the Chief of the Fund or the Finance Minister when they are ready to explain to you once again what I read a little while ago. In short, this topic will be completed by May 30th. We have an international company in all cases that has great experience in returning such funds and will be given this information accordingly. As for the head of BNB, I believe that this is not even an upbringing, it is not a culture after this recording to stand still as the head of the Bank and not to have deposited his resignation in parliament. DPS colleagues have very nice words for such a case and can help you with them. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u102	Come in, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u103	Prime Minister, I want to thank you for your reply on behalf of both myself and the Reformation Block, because we have promised this to the people and it must be done. There's this speciality. If you ask the parliamentary groups, everyone supports the idea, but as some actions, I will use an appropriate verb, and they will express themselves when they need to support such measures. It is evident that GERB, the Reformation Block and the Patriotic Front are behind this proposal. There will be responsibility for KTB, there will be an international investigation, we will chase these people, just as they were chased in other countries when it comes to similar cases. [[Heckling]] Mr. Prime Minister, one thing is important that the persons involved are exposed. A company like this will put together a list of people involved. This list should become public and make it clear who these persons are. [[Replying and shouting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u104	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u105	Some of them play a double game and play Democrats, and in the rest of their free time they were part of the KTB scenario. Our task is to keep these people from being held accountable. I'm glad the right actions have been taken. You saw that during the Oresharski cabinet nothing like this happened, and the situation was deliberately delayed so that the Bank could be put in this state that happened, and no concrete action was taken. Congratulations again! This is the way! Let us also reveal the persons involved and give this list to even the Bulgarian media if you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u107	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, nothing interferes at all in the topic of disclosure of secrets, of KTB, of international investigation, involved persons and I assure you that the group of GERB will support you, then it will become clear whether you are right, or if you are accusing one of the other parliamentary groups. With a text in the law or with a sentence you can solve this. GERB will actively participate. I think it's right and we owe it to the audience and the people to know the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u108	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. From the group of the Patriotic Front Mr. Julian Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u109	You're breaking the rules! [[Replys from the parliamentary group of Ataka.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u110	Don't call from the gym! You want us to turn the rules upside down. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Stanilov.]] Do you read the Rules of Procedure.... what is the arrangement? The only one... [[Replications from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov.]] I'll take you out of the room, Mr. Stanilov! [[Heckling]] The Prime Minister has just said he will remain to answer your question. Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, deputy prime ministers, colleagues! My question relates to the recent events that took place in the Republic of Macedonia a few days ago. From the Patriotic Front with concern we monitor the situation there, in general the situation in the Western Balkans, where Bulgaria, as a country, should have and should follow key policies related to Bulgarian national interests and Bulgaria should be the leading factor in defining policies in the Western Balkans. In this regard, do we care whether the Bulgarian government has taken measures in order to prevent terrorists and terrorist groups in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria? Are actions taken by Bulgarian diplomats and the Bulgarian government to protect Bulgarian citizens on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria? Last but not least, we need to know and have information in view of the fact that many people died in the conflict in Kumanovo..................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u112	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Prime Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u113	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleague, we are really worried about the events in Macedonia. No Bulgarian citizens died, but God forgive those who died. Many have died, many have been injured, and in close proximity to us. In addition to the declaration and position of the Foreign Ministry, which you heard by diplomatic route yesterday, yesterday we made a Security Advisory Council and all the services reported what they had as information. Basically on Sunday, I think 17 May is a key date for Macedonia when preparing a huge rally there. [[Replys on the left.]] Excuse me? Excuse me? They're calling, and I want to answer it as a decent person. This is, as they say, the sacral date on Sunday. What have we done so far? In addition to all the obvious actions you know, military exercises are being carried out on its special forces with the Homeland Security Counterterrorism Squad. Such classes have taken place before, and they are precisely for the capture of terrorist groups in forest areas, in a crossed area. This is also going as a similar training, if over the border in any way in a green border over the skirt. The military is on the border, they're setting up points, God forbid, if things go bad in Macedonia. Thirdly, we also prepare checkpoints because those with Bulgarian passports can safely come home. I have information that it's about 90 grand. Bulgarian citizens with Bulgarian passports can go home to Bulgaria, but in the case of a humanitarian crisis, if it turns out that there is one in our neighbouring country, we should be ready for that too. At yesterday's meeting these things, at least that I can and can clearly tell you from the services, we have started as actions at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u114	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope that the measures taken by the Bulgarian government will be sufficient, but I would like to say a few things that we think, not just me as MPs, but in general the Patriotic Front is that, in our view, both Bulgarian services and Bulgarian politicians, and governments over the past 25 years have owed precisely those more than 2 million. Bulgarians from Macedonia who have moved and are descendants today in Bulgaria, and to those over 2 million. Bulgarians who live in the Western Balkans as well. So we hope that we will not learn from the Serbian services and from the US Embassy in Skopje what is happening in Kumanovo first, but will learn from the Bulgarian services and from the Bulgarian government what is happening in Macedonia first. Because it is very important for Bulgaria to protect its interest in the Western Balkans, Bulgaria to adopt a strategy that concerns Bulgarians abroad as a whole, in which a strategy has a large part of the Western Balkans. What you said there must be some preparation to welcome refugees, it does not only concern the Republic of Macedonia, it also concerns Ukraine at the moment. God forbid that in the Western Balkans there will be a greater conflict what we are now worried may happen from Ukraine as a stream to Bulgaria will be nothing with the millions who are at our border and will seek asylum in Bulgaria. We therefore also call on the Bulgarian government to think urgently about the creation of a state fund in which to allocate funds each year precisely to support and strengthen Bulgarians abroad on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, and not to be surprised and to wonder what to do when this happens, God forbid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u116	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Mr. Prime Minister, you're not going to take advantage of your right to a doppelganger? For the next question, the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. Dear colleagues of the "Attack," I think you are being unreasonablely angry. I observe the order described in art. 104. The only one who gave up that right was GERB's parliamentary group. [[Replications from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov.]] If someone else quits, then I could let the next one go. [[Replications from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov. Noise and lines from Ataka.]] It's quite accurately described in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, my question is directed to you, even though I have asked Mrs. Bachvarova as well. It is related to Bulgaria's European efforts to control the refugee crisis at our Turkish border. How many European countries, especially those with such a high quality of life and much greater financial resources, are ready to share this responsibility because we know that Bulgaria is not the richest European country and what is the government's position on this issue? Will our European allies help us to resolve this refugee crisis, where as time warms up every day, the influx increases?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u118	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Prime Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u119	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Petrov, at the European Council, we have put this topic to rest. You know that the tragedies in the Mediterranean, which we have become empathetic to as media information, have also awakened compassion and the attention of the European Commission and the European Council. I think the two operations were called Triton and Poseidon. They're currently running in Mediterranean territory. Germany, France, sent warships to help stop this refugee wave, especially for joint action on the so-called slang of canals, or human traffickers. Indeed, there is a result. A decision was made to raise the money triple on this topic. Somewhere around 120-130 million. Euros. So you act in this direction. Fortunately, against the backdrop of the emerging events, at our border are relatively much less like a migratory influx. Even yesterday we have 500 people who have returned. Of course, they weren't banished from our services. I mean, explicitly, they came back of their own free will. In just a few days, both the Turkish Interior Minister and the Greek Interior Minister will be guests of Mrs. Bachvarova. I'll have a meeting with them, too. Specifically, your question. I raised the question that it is one thing to be an external border, another to be a border between Austria and Germany. It's different, it's not too complicated to come to that conclusion. At the moment, however, the decision has not yet been made by the European Commission to quote it to you. I will assign Mr. Donchev as soon as a decision is made to contact you and provide it to you. On the basis of gross domestic product and on the basis of the size of individual countries in Europe, a quota principle should be adopted in order to be all solidarity with this process. Everyone knows that Bulgaria is primarily a transit country and I hope that we will also have such support. In addition, Mrs Mogherini will be next month in Bulgaria on the topic. We have our problems to solve and I expect them to be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u120	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. For a line? I won't. The next question is from the political party's parliamentary group "Attack." Mr. Siderov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Minister! My question is to the Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova. It is a common policy issue and refers to the refusal to apply justice. It's about this scandalous and very ugly case. On the 24th of April, in front of the Fifth School, a serviceman assaulted a child. The military officer is a foreign citizen. We could never get his name, it was hidden from the Ministry of Interior spokeswoman in Sliven. All we understand is that he was an Englishman of these, I was going to say occupation forces, I apologize, partner, NATO forces, which are located in the polygon of Novo selo. The soldier in question has been walking around the city, and I don't know what occasion, for a reason or without cause, he committed a common crime, beating up a minor child, a boy. My question is why, Mrs. Bachvarova, the perpetrator in question is not in custody and there are no investigative actions against him? We have, as I said, a common crime. The person in question is not a diplomat, has no immunity, does not enjoy any other extraordinary powers and should be investigated for a common crime. Why does this not happen and why has the Ministry of Interior refused to perform its function, to exercise its function as a judicial authority and, above all, to hold the person to be questioned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u122	The Ministry of Interior is not a judicial authority.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u123	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. Are you prepared to answer because I have a more specific question than this hard to imagine? A common detention policy, perhaps...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u124	Mr. Siderov, because you said that you were asking me a question about a common policy, I can answer you this way: there are no protections or attempts to hide any person who committed a crime on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. In this case, I can answer you within the framework of parliamentary control. He's clearing up right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u126	Madam Minister, I think this is currently a form of parliamentary control. The question is indeed of a general nature, because it is a question of refusing to apply justice. And there's no need for details or any numerical data and so on. The case is known, it has become known to the whole public. We conducted our own investigation, and we found out that literally every day underage children are threatened by such servicemen walking the streets, drinking, buying drugs and so on. [[GRUNTING IN GERB]] and set a wonderful example for NATO partners how exactly they behave. The issue is principled and it is general policy, because it is not the only case, isolated. We have had other such cases, and in all of them the authorities of the Ministry of Interior refuse to detain the perpetrators. Not to mention that case with the French in the village who attacked a serviceman and were also not detained. I mean, obviously there is a directive, and that's why my question to you was: are you issuing it, someone else, or are you merely retranslating it, not being detained, not having investigative and prosecutorial measures against people who are servicemen and are in the territory of Bulgaria - foreigners, mainly Americans, in this case English?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u127	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, you are welcome to answer the specific question that has been broken through the common policy of your ministry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u128	Mr. Siderov, I assume that your concern in these cases has not prevented you from signaling these cases with your investigations to the Ministry of Interior. I expect the information you have after you have conducted such investigations.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. The Parliamentary Group of Alternative for Bulgarian Revival has the floor of the MP Borislav Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, in the vote on external debt, ABB supported the ratification of the agreement and the finance minister committed to developing an investment programme, including expenditure forming the budget deficit, so that the budget deficit is not only from non-production costs but also from investment purposes. It's a simple question. Has such an investment programme been submitted to the Council of Ministers and discussed? If not, does he intend to be imported? I also ask this question in the context of the latest Eurostat forecast, which from 0.8% economic growth of Bulgaria already predicts 1% economic growth, which is an expression of confidence in economic opportunities and political stability in the country. In this regard, I express a certain willingness on the part of the ABB to participate and to assist, if necessary, in the development of such an investment programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u131	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. Prime Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable colleague! There is no investment programme at the moment, because within this budget you know that our goal is also to cover the budget deficit at the moment and to make those payments that were important. As far as I am informed by Mrs. Bachvarova, yesterday at the Council you spoke on this topic, so when there is such an investment program, we will inform you. At the moment you see the fiscal reserve as the quantitative funds in it rise and you see that we are very thrifty in spending. We are trying, not roughly, strictly following the Budget Act, but only where money had to be given urgently and for which the fact that the entire parliament of all parties has not attacked us, I think it is indicative enough. There is no party that would object that we gave the pensioners twice 50 million for the Easter and Christmas holidays. It is clear to everyone that "Hemus" and "Trakiya" were in a state where people are dying, we have to repair them. I do not believe anyone was against this 107 million for Bulgarian tobacco producers as the poorest in social terms. That's pretty much it. Today we have given money for four years Bulgarian police officers do not have uniforms to make new ones. It's similar to our spending. We didn't do anything to irritate you at this point, or it really wasn't important to do it. So I'm making this commitment and thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u133	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. - What's the line? You will not take advantage of your right to a line. Mr. Velchev was kind enough to give everyone his turn. To thank Prime Minister Boyko Borisov for participating in the parliamentary control... [[Mister President Boyko Borisov is leaving the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u134	I have a question for Mr. Borisov! [[(Radio.) Replices.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u135	Here you go, Mr. Enchev. From the parliamentary group of GERB Ms. Sylvia Hubenova. Then there will be the people's representative Velizar Enchev who are not members of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u136	After Borisov got scared and left... [[Laughter at GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is to Mr. Donchev. It is related to the launch of programs from the new programming period. On 7 May, the first procedure under the Operational Programme was announced in a press release of the Ministry of Economy. This press release impresses something that I think is a novelty for applying to European projects, and I think it should be admired, clarified and, if possible, become a practice for future operational programme procedures. In this message, it was written that the application is made through a web-based form and will be applied electronically in the section of the Electronic Application of the Management and Observation Information System. I think the GERB government has long undertaken this commitment to ease the application of all beneficiaries to all operational programs. In particular, this applies to business as well. My question is related to this: does the government allow electronic application to become a mass practice? How will this happen only on ISN and on which programs?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u138	Thank you, dear Mrs. Hubenova. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u139	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Hubenova, the question you are asking, more or less, technical or expert, but I think it is extremely important. I am delighted that out of the five approved operational programmes, we are already opening the first schemes in the past week under the Human Resources Development and Innovation and Competitiveness. Allow me to open up a clamp,.. Environment...Regions in growth.. are already in technical procedure, in the European Commission it is a matter of several weeks to see the official approval. The correct information you have provided is correct. The first schemes allow electronic application through the Management and Monitoring Information System. This is the next version of the so-called so-called "Isun" is "Isun 2020." Let me remind you that three or four years ago we turned ISU into not only an electronic register of all the data related to the projects, but we tried to introduce new functionalities and not only to make all the projects the data in them, funding, goals and performer, public, but even more than three years ago for the first time we tested the so-called Electronic Application. The results, without being stunning, I can call them encouraging. Based on this experience is this new functionality of the system ISUN. There are two challenges here. First of all, from option, electronic application to become a norm. And if I, more or less, have been liberal in terms of these first schemes, allowing paper turnover to run in a year or a year and a half, I'm counting on not having any paper projects. That's first. Secondly, electronic reporting is even more important than electronic application, and here the task is slightly different. This is not only to make it easier for applicants and beneficiaries, not only to reduce the use of paper, but to use it as a form of elegant pressure to discipline all administrations not to ask for more documents than those they need. For me, the biggest challenge is that if we manage to cancel the need to submit primary accounting documents to apply only with a financial statement, this represents an enormous reduction in administrative burden. We are in intensive negotiations with both the Commission services and colleagues from other ministries to change this requirement. Remember that electronic application, electronic reporting not only relieves administrative load, it is a type of redesign, reorganization of processes. If a lot of effort is made in this direction, the main objective is that the processes be much closer to the needs of the one who applies them, to the one who uses them, and, above all, to limit the managing authorities to provide requirements or to require documents that have no added value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u140	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mrs. Hubenova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u141	I thank you, Mr. Donchev, because everyone, tempted by the work on the operational programs, knows that for everyone applying for them, it was extremely complicated not only the application form, but rather all accompanying documents. Thank you for making a commitment to minimise the number of unnecessary documents, which I think will create better opportunities and more desires both from municipalities and from the non-governmental sector and from business to apply for operational programmes, which will indirectly lead to an increase in the good rate of absorption of funds from the European Union by Bulgaria. I think we are all working to bring Bulgaria's name into the European Union as good and as a country in which the law is strongly and actively entering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u142	Thank you, dear Mrs. Hubenova. Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u143	Dear Mrs. Hubenova, the question is not just to know the European rules. After the experience gained by all Bulgarian institutions since the beginning of membership, I think most of them already know the rules well. The point is that they become such an integral part of the behavior that we are in a position to reduce the number of mandatory requirements and controls that are largely slowing down and harassing the process. Besides, I have personal traumatic experience. Many years ago, it happened in my capacity as a candidate to submit a project that weighed nearly 250 kg. However, there is no benefit from electronic application if all that we provide on paper should be provided scanned in electronic form.. each drawing, every invoice, every civil contract and every post-it when we talk about a report. True evolution in the system will come when simultaneous information, text and financial statements are provided, and when an on-site audit is ongoing, the control authority will be able to verify whether what is recorded in the report corresponds to the documentation it has with the beneficiary. Only this is the step towards reducing the administrative burden not by 10, not by 20, but by 75%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u144	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. To ask a question, the People's Representative Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u145	Mr. Chairman, you just made two violations. The first, after you have broken your promise to give the floor to opposition parties first, and you have given the floor to the ruling party, it is about the Ataka Party. And the second time, you violated the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly when, although an hour earlier I left you a request for my speech, you released the Prime Minister, saving him my question. Obviously all Bulgarian citizens can see that the Prime Minister is afraid of my question, which I will ask him and does not want to stay in the Chamber. [[Noise and lines from GERB. Revelations: "Eeeeeee! "]] I repeat once again, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov left the Chamber thanks to the violation committed by the President of the National Assembly Mr. Glauchev, which, Mr. Glauchev, is not your first offense, but let it weigh on your conscience. Colleagues from the attack were absolutely right in their reaction, especially Prof. Ataka. Stanilov, with his anger. [[Loud noise and lines.]] I think that if there is a real opposition here, he should ask Mr. Glauchev for his behaviour, which is contrary to the Rules. My question is to Mrs. Bachvarova and it is very short. Ms. Bachvarova, the fence along the border with the Republic of Turkey, which, as we know, was decided to be built as an exception without auction and competition, has not yet started its construction. According to your statement last week, the construction should begin eventually at the end of May. Do you take as a big mistake the decision you made from the ruling coalition, from other parties and other MPs who supported this decision, albeit with demands, a decision that eliminates the public tender and competition and thus the fence will eventually be rebuilt within the deadlines that would be allowed, achievable if public tender and competition were announced? Isn't it a corrupt action by the government, which will also be detrimental to the national security and the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, because, as the former minister of war presented Mr. Naydenov on the stand, when this decision was voted, a kilometer from the fence is four times more expensive than the previous fence built under the government of the Bad People?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. Before I give the floor to Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I will say this: if you meet not the entire Rules, but only with Art. 104, you will understand that what you just said from the stands is simply not true. Here you are, Madame Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u147	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Enchev! At present, the partition facility has no alternative in terms of efficiency to protect our southern border. It is a commitment that we have made to the voters at the beginning of this term, and it is a solution that will greatly ease the situation on our southern border. Unfortunately, it is extremely difficult to implement and is extremely expensive. What we have tried to do in the whole process of organization is to ease all stages that precede the construction itself so that we can start effective construction actions as soon as possible, which even in the process of construction will have an effect on the overall state of the Bulgarian-Turkish border. You mention amounts, we are currently in the process of evaluating the initial projects, which literally up until a few days ago were drawn up. The work on design in this part, which is to Burgas, is the most complex, will probably be the most expensive. We expect the final valuation to decide how to start the construction as soon as possible. As far as the higher price is concerned, I can tell you that the project currently in existence is trying to avoid all the errors and weaknesses of the previous project. It is at least 60% wider, which means more materials, more effort, and the requirements that were set in the design were related to minimizing the risks of damage to this facility............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ So it is common interest, especially for the government, that this facility be, firstly, built and, secondly, its value be acceptable to all of us. I expect by the end of the year we'll have a result of this facility.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Enchev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u149	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, there is no doubt that the deadlines for the construction of this fence along the Bulgarian-Turkish border will be the same time limits if a public tender and competition were announced during which you would be given the best offer in financial terms. In this case you decide on indoors the ruling coalition, which is the most convenient company to perform this order, not what is best for the Bulgarian budget and, of course, for national security. I dare and dare say this: this is a corruption project of the quadruple coalition with which a corruption project, Mrs. Bachvarova, your companies, companies close to the GERB party, the Reformist bloc and the other two coalition partners will participate in a violation of the law that you have broken, of course, legally by voting in the National Assembly. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] In short, behind the façade of national security, behind the façade of the interests of Bulgaria, of Mother Bulgaria. You have once again shown the creepy face of Bulgarian corruption, unfortunately, we call it "parliamentary corruption." All MPs who voted for the fence to be built in this way, let them explain to their voters how it is four times more expensive than the fence built during the government of Plamen Oresharski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u150	What's the reading?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u151	Thank you, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u152	My data, sir, is from the statement of former military minister Naydenov, who on this stand before the vote said that BSP will support this fence, but it is four times more expensive... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u153	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u154	...a mile from the last one. [[Loud noise and lines on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u155	Please don't go into lines with the speaker. You have the floor, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u156	Dear Mr. Enchev, you have information that none of us have. So I think you speculate in an unacceptable way with figures and facts that have nothing to do with reality. What is more, you present a bad conscience for which you have no reason to. I think the tone of insults and speculation from the parliamentary tribune is extremely scandalous and unacceptable for this House. I can assure you that you do not even have reason to speculate, because the stage of construction of this facility has not yet been selected for design. I will repeat myself, I regret that there is no clear price, because there is currently a valuation on the basis of the projects drawn up. I told you that most of this facility has not yet completed a project in the part that is to Burgas. Everything you claim from the parliamentary platform is not true. I make a commitment to this, when construction starts, to inform the MPs publicly about the way the construction is carried out and its value. [[Reply by National Representative Valentin Kasabov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u157	Procedure in the manner of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u158	Dear Mr. President, I ask you very much to step into your role and stop the MPs who here, firstly, do not respect elementary parliamentary ethics and, secondly, openly tell honest lies. I'm talking about Velizar Enchev or snitch Kissyakov. [[crowd cheering, noise and speech]] ..as honest lies have snitched against his colleagues, and against his wife he wrote letters to grow in his career. I beg you very much, stop such parodys of people who are trying as their last resort to giving justice and morality, at the same time this man has snitched on his wife, to whom he has sworn in love. That's what we're talking about! Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u159	I should have stopped you for everything you said. [[Applause. A line from the National Representative Velizar Enchev.]] For a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u160	Mr. Chairman, for a personal explanation, I have a right. I will not answer to Mr. Kasabov, since on Monday I am filing a defamation suit under the appropriate procedure. [[Loud noise and lines from PF.]] Yes, a case of defamation under the appropriate procedure and against his wife, too. Mr. Kasabov's question about the fence. [[Reply by National Representative Valentin Kasabov.]] Since I've decided to save that, but now I have to say it, Mr. Kasabov. This is your initiative for the fence after the speech of Mr. Valeri Simeonov, here on this platform. And after an agreement with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. He came here in this room, and what did he say, Mr. Kasabov? He stated that he accepted Mr. Simeonov's proposal, Mr. Simeonov's initiative, a joint initiative of GERB party and the Patriotic Front, and this fence will be built without a public tender and competition. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Thanks to this statement and to this position, you MPs from the ruling coalition voted for this one, I stress, the corruption project from this fence, Mr. Kasabov and Mr. Simeonov, is four times more expensive than the previous kilometer of the government of Plamen Oresharski. [[Loud noise and lines on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u161	You're coming out of your personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u162	And that was stated, if you do not believe me, by the former military minister Mr. Angel Naydenov. Which way do I have to tell you this? [[Loud noise and lines on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u163	For the next question, please come in, Mr. Georgiev. [[Noise and lines.]] Who has not yet become clear, GERB gave up asking first questions and therefore follow the other groups according to their size. If any of them want to give up in favor of anyone else, they can say it out of the microphone and do the same. I explain that to everyone who hasn't read art. 104 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u164	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers, colleagues! Recently, colleagues Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova submitted ZID to the VAT Act, which, I suppose, is also agreed with the government. The aim of the bill is to create a legal basis to recover it retroactively, I stress, the right to VAT tax credit since 2007 for municipalities that have not used it, for water projects, including OPOS. In my opinion, this substantially changes the financial parameters of the approved projects, and some of these projects have already been completed and accounted for under Axis 1 of the OPOS. My question to you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, is: is this acceptable at this stage and will not require a review and reaffirmation of all cost analyses and benefits for the projects under Axis 1 of the OPE for the previous period in which VAT is considered irrecoverable and is therefore eligible as expenditure? In this regard, will there not be obstacles to the completion of the first stage of the Programme, in the previous period? Is this actually in agreement with Brussels? What did you and Brussels agree on? Does it happen that instead of absorbing European funds, everything will be a burden on the budget and on the shoulders of the taxpayer? We insist on the problems of the municipalities, which got involved and accumulated above all during the first management of GERB, to be resolved as quickly and effectively as possible. Do you not think that these problems should be dealt with in a complex manner rather than schematically? Because they are related not only to VAT, but to a number of other issues. For example, the financial corrections imposed by which you also have no clarity or final decision. We do not share solving issues to become a piece, which is clearly the style of the government. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Because it's not effective. I expect from you and I demand a really clear answer to the question of the reimbursement of VAT tax credit with a retroactive date in relation to and with the completion of the implementation of the OCS in the previous programming period.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u165	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u166	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Despite the elements of political banter in the matter, I will try to demonstrate coolness and not to respond with such a comment. It is not that I have no right and not that it would be in your favor. Firstly, as regards the treatment of value added tax, you commented, there is a text from the old General Regulation 10/83 how VAT is treated when refunded is inadmissible, and vice versa. However, the situation is complicated by a decision of the European Court on a case-by-case case in Hungary since 2012, if memory serves me, and it rarely lies to me..... where it limits the possibility that VAT in so-called revenue-producing projects is a separate category of projects such as projects in the Water Sector to be considered eligible expenditure. Unfortunately, the Bulgarian state in the style of what I said at the beginning will not comment on who, late with the application of this decision of the European Court of Justice. Therefore, urgent measures have had to be taken in the past months to clear relations with the European Commission, inasmuch as the vision of the Directorate-General for Regional and Urban Policy (DG) was to automatically cut all costs associated with paid value added tax on all water projects. We are in intensive negotiations with the European Commission on how they are treated, for example, large projects within the meaning of Regulation 10/83, insofar as they are approved by the European Commission on value added tax. This is a Commission decision. I suppose you know the difference between large and small projects within the meaning of that Regulation. In direct wording, the Court's decision in this case has a basis. Bulgaria has so adjusted its tax system that there is really no problem to restore value added tax on water projects. A challenge arises when we have projects that are in the final phase, regarding the treatment of the tax already paid, as well as in cases where the attitude towards the project to the municipal budget is example that the project is one or twice as big. We have cases like this. I have repeatedly spoken to Minister Goranov, who first instructed the revenue administrations and similar cases related to the reimbursement of value added tax to be processed as quickly as possible, not within the limits set out in the Law. We are also able, if the project is very large in relation to the resources of the municipal budget, to provide the municipalities with liquid support, in so far as an undisputed priority, in the first place, are all projects that run, especially the difficult projects in the sector. On another subject which you have touched on the financial corrections, I will also refrain from a political comment, not that I have no reason. I only note that, according to the current European legislation and communication with the European Commission, once a financial correction has been imposed, an individual financial correction cannot be reviewed by anyone except the Bulgarian Court of Justice. Unfortunately, a large part of the adjustments have been tried in accordance with the GPC, which takes a period of not less than three years. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] During the duplicate I will be able to provide you with additional information about what the Bulgarian government has done over the past few months on the occasion of financial corrections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u167	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for understanding. The line, Mr. Georgiev. [[Noise and lines on the left.]] I see they're pumping you out of the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u168	Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you obviously have no clarity at this time on how to resolve matters. You have no clarity! Do you support this through the bill in question, or do you really have any other way to resolve them in a dialogue with Brussels, when will the government finally take to heart the problems with the implementation of the operational programmes and there will be a clear policy for the completion of the previous period?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u169	Thank you. Please come in for a duplicate in two minutes, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u170	If something's not clear from the conversation, it's not my fault. I explained at the level of almost technical details, as well as the degree of intensity of communication, both with the Commission services and with the local authorities and the National Association of Municipalities. It is a fact that this change, particularly the decision of the European Court of Justice, is a challenge for all Member States. If measures were taken in 2013 and 2014, this would not have happened at the very end of the programming period. However, although it was necessary to take the decision at the last moment and at the level of legislation and from the point of view of measures by the government, I believe that this will not burden the implementation of the projects. And now let me use the time I have to finish what I told you about financial corrections. I start by saying that Bulgaria could safely not fall into the difficult situation related to individual and flat financial corrections in the period 2013 - 2014. If you look at the beginning of 2013, the total volume of financial corrections is about 70 million, the total volume of flat individual financial corrections at the end of 2014 is 380 million. I will not allow myself to divide it and comment on it as political mandates. As far as we have no right to review individual financial corrections, what is being done at the moment is that any financial corrections imposed are to be categorized. As far as we are concerned with these categories of cases in which the beneficiary, who has been entrusted, cannot be blamed, these adjustments should remain at the expense of the state budget. I will mark you several similar categories where the Bulgarian legislation is strictly followed, which, however, appears to have not been synchronized with the European period in question. I can give you a specific example with the so-called "skilling" insofar as Bulgarian legislation by the end of 2008 is not quite synchronized with European legislation. A lot of cases are like that. We also have cases where the contractor is de facto elected, for example, after a ruling of the Supreme Administrative Court and very difficult for the specific beneficiary to be blamed...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u171	Please navigate towards completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u172	...why he chose this particular artist and what a vice there is in the procedures. I expect the categorization to be completed in the next two weeks and to individualise the cases where it cannot be included, including financial responsibility, of the specific beneficiary. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u173	Thank you. Procedure? Come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u174	Dear Mr. Chairman, I take the floor in the manner of conduct. We are currently conducting a parliamentary control procedure, which means that we are asking questions, and that those to whom we are asking questions should be answered. I ask you very much to explain this to the representatives of the Council of Ministers and really give answers. I asked a question: does the government support this bill or not? Anyone hear an answer yet? No. Please follow the rules and ask the representatives of the Council of Ministers to also follow the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u175	Mr. Georgiev, thank you. As you can see, the deputy prime ministers respond on the basis of what they can respond to, given that the blitzcontrol is linked to a common policy. If you are looking for specific answers, you can probably find them during parliamentary control on Friday. Thank you. We're moving on to the DPS group. Mr. Imamov, you have the opportunity to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u176	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers! My question should be addressed to Mr. Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy. Mr. Donchev, my question is that during these days in connection with an international conference with the participation of many famous economists and financiers again talked about the Currency Board and the Eurozone, meaning whether Bulgaria is working in this direction, whether it should work. Many of the opinions shared at this conference come in clear contradiction with what we heard from Minister Goranov some time ago about what the government is doing for Bulgaria's entry into the Eurozone. My question is clear and specific.. Does the government work in this regard, does it remain entering the Eurozone as a priority for Bulgaria or have you changed your intentions in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u177	Thank you. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u178	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Imamov! In the economy, as well as in the public sciences, there are different opinions, opinions, proposals and so on. It will be difficult to comment on all of them, especially if some of them are exotic. Of course, this is not the case for your question, as far as comment is concerned, made in an extremely serious and authoritative way. There is no revision of the Bulgarian position regarding membership in the Eurozone, going through all procedures, ERM II and so on. Despite this comment, before and after it there is no revision of the Bulgarian position. A few details. First of all, our experience with Schengen. Here and Mrs. Kuneva can confirm that acceptance in some clubs is not just a matter of technical requirements, for example, related to macroeconomic balance, a state of public balance and so on. It's a political decision. In the same way are things with the inclusion in the Eurozone. I believe that in addition to meeting the technical requirements, when Bulgaria is able to demonstrate such a degree of economic, social and finally political stability and authority, this will happen. It is another matter that the entry into the Eurozone and the adoption of the euro should in no way dispel or reduce the responsibilities of the national institutions, of the Ministry of Finance in terms of management of public revenues and expenditure, of course, if a similar illusion should be generated which, by the way, was the basis, the essence of the commentary of Prof. Hanke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u179	The line, Mr. Imamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u180	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Donchev, I did not ask you to comment on the opinion of the father of the Currency Board in Bulgaria, because usually from a father you cannot expect to say anything bad about his creation. That's what happens in our particular case. It is about the fact that in our society as well as in Parliament, there is, of course, a consensus on the fact that the Currency Board must exist until Bulgaria enters the Eurozone. I am pleased with the fact that you have kept your positions and define Bulgaria's entry into the Eurozone as a priority and are not guided by such opinions, because very rarely there is talk about the shortcomings of the Currency Board in terms of the economy. If you'll allow me, I'll use a comparison. The currency board is like the anchor of the economics ship. When there is a storm, anchor is useful, it keeps the ship from crashing. But when there is no storm, anchor becomes a problem for the movement, for the development of the economy. That is why I think it is good for you to continue the intensive work Bulgaria will sooner or later enter into the relevant monetary mechanism and actively participate in our accession to the Eurozone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u181	Thank you, Mr. Imamov. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u182	Madam President, Mr. Imamov, in an effort to be brief, I will make just one comment regarding your words on the Currency Board. It's not a universally good solution. Another point is that in Bulgaria in the current situation, in the past and as a short-term future, I think there is no better. We have a number of good examples of countries that have a more flexible monetary policy, including Eastern European countries, which are able to contribute very, for example, to the development of the economy, to stabilise public finances. There are a number of examples in this direction. Unfortunately, we also have some pretty bad examples. But as confirmation of what you said and your question, let me briefly state: the functioning and existence of the Currency Board until Bulgaria enters the Eurozone is not questioned and is not commented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u183	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Now there's a question from the Reformation Block. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u184	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies Deputy Prime Minister, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is to Mrs. Bachvarova and he concerns the notorious road war. I will step on a statement from a week ago in which she stated the intention of serious action in relation to those, as the public calls them "jigiti drivers or killer drivers." Then, as I recall, she said that the Ministry of Interior intends to apply very strict measures to such drivers who have committed a traffic accident, caused such a traffic accident and there have been serious injuries, i.e. average bodily harm, severe or, God forbid, death. I assume Mrs. Bachvarova is aware that last week we saw changes in the Law on Road Traffic. I have tried to step on this statement and write something similar between the two readings I have submitted, but here I am reporting as my personal omission that I did not reconcile it with her, nor, obviously, well enough with colleagues from GERB, from the Patriotic Front and ABB, and it has received colourful support and has not passed. But the question, I mean, recent events, obviously stands and is very serious. And I think we really need to deal with this issue and such delays under the pretext of thinking about a new Road Traffic Act and so on are not serious. My question to Mrs. Bachvarova in this sense is: would she be involved, including in her capacity as deputy prime minister and co-ordinator of coalition policy, to combine efforts from all parliamentary groups supporting this governance, to make a working group, perhaps in the way that we did so on the problem of KTB and very quickly the parliament came up with specific legislative decisions, and to really try to find a lasting solution to this problem of road war, and especially with a rapid and effective withdrawal within a certain time, of course, of the driver's license, which have 5, 10, 15 and more pending administrative criminal proceedings and continue to drive, and, as we see, are causing very severe accidents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u185	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u186	Mrs. Chairman! Mr. Slavov, I can assure you that I am personally involved with this problem. Just two days ago at the Ministry of Interior, we discussed legislative proposals. The delay in submitting this proposal has happened precisely because we have found that there is such a proposal on your part. We are currently updating the Ministry's legislative programme and working in this direction is part of our ideas........................ we are working on them...................................................................... As far as coalition coordination is concerned, I think there are at least two forms in which we can officially do it. I want to say something else. We work in different directions because it is an extremely disturbing situation on the roads. In recent days, you see, we have witnessed drastic cases. Within days, 148 cameras will literally operate, which will be able to issue an electronic ticket for violations. The Ordinance is signed and we are waiting for its promulgation in the Official Journal in a few days. I'm sure it'll have at least a preventative effect. Furthermore, the Prime Minister's call to show civil and human vigilance to cases that pose a risk of such consequences when driving after alcohol or at a high speed is in force. In a few days we will have a meeting in the Ministry of Interior, to which we will again pay attention to the regional governments, the police, who will take such signals as quickly and effectively as possible, because prevention is a good opportunity. You know that these kinds of incidents are related to the peculiarities of personal behavior, mentality, the culture of the road. This is perhaps the longest, but also the safest way to limit this type of incident. We remain ready to cooperate with everyone who wants to do something that will help solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u187	Thank you. A line? Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, for that answer. I declare my and my colleagues from the Reformation Block ready to join these efforts and a working group, if you form one, with our concrete proposals. We are currently working, the team of lawyers, on similar, mainly in the direction of the so-called 'forced administrative measures', where we see the most effective means of speedy dealing with similar drivers repeaters, as society calls them. In our belief and in the statistics we have, it is actually about a not-so-great contingent of people who systematically abuse. They have found a gap in the Law that gives them the opportunity for years to drag around pending administrative criminal proceedings that practically never enter into force, and they continue to carry out new and new violations, which is obviously unacceptable and, as we see, extremely dangerous because they feel more and more above the Law and increasingly untouchable. At some point, tragic cases are brought about by sometimes irreparable consequences. So we're going to be actively involved. In our belief in this part, the Law needs a serious revision. There are such forced administrative measures at the moment that speak for example of committing violations due to ignorance of the Road Traffic Act, and what remains for those who very well know the restrictions in a populated area and still drive by over 100 km, with the clear awareness of what can occur. In other words, it is unacceptable to make an exception for them. Obviously these are provisions written many years ago that need to be brought into line with modern conditions. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u189	Will you use the hole, Mrs. Bachvarova? No. We move on to a question expected by the Patriot Front Group. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u190	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It reduces the amount of prime minister and deputy prime minister, but it is still our job to ask you questions concerning government policies. In this regard, I would like to ask you a question of extreme importance, which concerns thousands of Bulgarian citizens, especially Bulgarian workers and employees. In recent months, ladies Deputy Prime Ministers have escalated an extremely serious problem in the country related to the non-payment of salaries to Bulgarian workers and employees. Moreover, these workers and employees pass through a judicial procedure, acquire executive sheets, but ultimately fail to receive their wages. Drastic are the examples of the car repair plant in Karlovo. I dare say that much of the workers have to receive wages of more than 20 thousand. lv. Imagine what conditions these people are put in and how they feel when they realize that the state cannot in any way protect them. I ask you the question from the point of view that we guarantee the deposits of our citizens in banks, but in fact we do not in any way guarantee them the constitutional right to receive their legal remuneration. My question in this regard should be to Deputy Prime Minister Ivaylo Kalfin... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Madam President. My question in this regard is: what is the policy of the government so that Bulgarian workers and employees feel that there is a state that protects their legitimate interest in receiving their wages? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u191	I expect Mrs. Bachvarova to state whose portfolio this is.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u192	Mr. Kalfin's.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u193	Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u194	Madam President, I want a procedure for one simple reason that Bulgaria is still a parliamentary republic and all the Deputy Prime Ministers and the Prime Minister were obliged to be here in this Chamber. We're talking about nearly 300,000. Bulgarian citizens! About 300,000. Bulgarian citizens! Excuse me, but I don't have to know which deputy prime minister or prime minister has some kind of commitment. Bulgaria is, again, a parliamentary republic. Parliament is the supreme authority of government.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u195	The Republic with parliamentary governance. These are two different things. The Republic of Parliament!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u196	That's right. Thank you for your clarification, which further reinforces my thesis, that there should be everyone here who is obliged to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u197	Mr. Bajraktarov, since I assume that you have conducted a procedure in the manner of conduct, I am not entirely using the time of both minutes to answer you. You are right that the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Ministers should be involved in the blitzcontrol, but of course also in line with their programmes. There will be an opportunity for Mr. Kalfin to answer your question, as it implies more specific and more accurate data, which excludes the form of blitzcontrol, where only policies and common positions are stated on the questions asked. Either way, answer the question about regular control, and you'll get an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u198	Ivaylo Kalfin is on the Triangle!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u199	I understand, but Mr. Bayraktarov believes that the Trilateral Council should remain in the background after the commitment the Deputy Prime Minister has to Parliament. It is his right as a Member of the National Assembly to reason in a manner which he considers correct. I can only read, Mr. Ivanov showed me the letter sent on 12 May 2015 to the President of the National Assembly: "Dear Madam President, please, on the basis of art. No. 104, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to postpone my answers for blitzcontrol on 13 May 2015 due to a prior commitment. I can present it to you personally, Mr. Bayraktarov. We move on to a question from the group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. Here you go, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u200	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is this: Bulgaria in many ways is a unique country with nature, cultural heritage, with an ethnic model even, but during the year it became unique with something else, with the so-called chosen tourism and with the purchase of votes. Ladies Deputy Prime Ministers, in just six months the Bulgarian government will be put to the test, and it is to organise and hold the elections for local authorities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u201	Not six, four months!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u202	Around. Around, General Atanasov. Let's not be so punctual. And in this regard, my question to you is: have you started preparing for the local elections? Do you have the willingness to react to these resounding phenomena which, unfortunately, destroy the foundations of democratic institutions and are undoubtedly a blow to democracy, namely the so-called election tourism, on the one hand, and the purchase of votes?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u203	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u204	Dear Mr. Haytov, I agree with the findings you have made, qualifying the problem we all face. The result of this is the configuration in the current Parliament in some way, so, still announcing the priorities in its work, I pointed out that one of them would be limiting these negative phenomena in the electoral process. In the Ministry of Interior, we are discussing the possibility to make the control and performance of the functions that we have with regard to the conduct of elections more effective, so that we do not allow this type of negative phenomena to affect the election result. Already during the elections in Sarnitsa we developed a model, we applied it, and I hope you paid attention, especially in the second round, there was not a single complaint or signal of abuse during the vote. We are currently developing the opportunities that we need to make during the local elections. You realize that this is an extremely comprehensive task, because we need to reach out, to cover all the places where elections are held, and I can assure you that we are working on this topic. We are ready to face the challenges we know them at this time. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u205	A line, Mr. Haytov? You won't use it. The Parliamentary Group of "Attacka" is next. There is no representative of the group. Next up is the ABC. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u206	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, deputy prime ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question would be to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev, but in this case I allow myself to ask him to Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Bachvarova. I ask a question about countering fuel smuggling and preventing them from doing so. Secondly, I believe that this issue relating to the smuggling of fuels directly reflects on the Bulgarian economy. Thirdly, I believe that the issue is broad spectrum, because in solving this problem and building such a strategy, not only the Ministry of Finance should participate, but also the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Agriculture and so on. In fourth place, the issue is extremely up to date, including today's parliamentary day, when we discussed the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the VAT Act, on which we, our parliamentary group, are co-ordinated in the face of prof. Stankov. Not one and two are the cases in which the Bulgarian state was directly damaged by the smuggling of fuels. In the media, information was released about the discovery by customs officers of fuel fraud, which damaged the state. lv. In the information, there were related companies of five who used approximately 851 tonnes of marked gas oil not for their intended use. I mean, they had previously announced in the documents that they used the fuel to dry timber in the dryers in the territory of Perushtitsa and Peshtera, and the controls showed that the appliances in the dryers did not work with diesel. The state was damaged because the fuel was subject to an excise preferential rate of 50 BGN and not 645 BGN, as should be in the general case. There are other cases reported and documented by the Bulgarian media and in the field of Bulgarian State Railways. I would like to point out that at the end of last year, December, a change in the famous art was adopted in the National Assembly. 118, which is responsible for all so-called office gas stations. The expression is incorrect, but it still exists in the Bulgarian public, to put on level-based systems and to ensure constant contact with the National Revenue Agency. The vote was, anyway, directly attacked in the Committee on Agriculture and a change to Regulation No H-18 came out of it in order to comply with the legal provisions. As a result of pressure from representatives of the agricultural and transport sectors, it turned out that the Ministry of Finance did not know where they were located and what the capacity of the facilities of the government filling stations was and therefore Regulation No 18 was amended and they received only registration to identify them in some way as places and as companies. My question is actually to you: what is the government strategy for solving this problem, and I owe it to you to point out that when solving this problem, Bulgarian grain producers should not suffer in any way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u207	For an answer Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u208	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Belemezov! I can assure you that the Ministry of Interior is very strongly and actively involved in limiting smuggling and, in particular, limiting fuel smuggling. Weekly working meetings are held at the Prime Minister with all the institutions involved in this topic for the period from the beginning of the year to the end of April. About 15%. Despite these successes, we have decided to continue and establish this practice by establishing a common coordination centre to monitor smuggling, and in just 10 minutes there is a meeting that needs to establish the readiness to start the work of this centre. I hope this happens within the next few days. The other direction in which we are working, in addition to the mobilisation of all resources and efforts, knowledge and monitoring of the process of the institutions that can propose a solution on this issue, tomorrow we have a planned meeting with representatives of the Bulgarian oil and gas association, with which we will discuss additional measures, we will hear their proposals so that we can make a very comprehensive plan of measures to continue working from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u209	Thank you. For a cue, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u210	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. In any case, I can definitely say that the answer satisfies me, as we are really taking proactive measures in this direction, for which I wish you success! Other additional measures and a question of public debate may be the adoption, I think it is high time for the adoption of the Fuel Act, which could structure the much better overall chain between wholesale and retail producers, retailers and retailers, transporters and, at the same time, end-users of fuels, as are actually farmers. Secondly, if required by the Ministry of Finance for setting up level-dimensional systems and for the registration of these companies and the places where they store their facilities with fuel reserves, it could also be required by the Ministry of Finance Act 16 for the construction and commissioning of them. This would ensure that other additional state authorities which have not been concerned at the time are included in the overall control process. There are also a number of other measures that can be taken, such as uniform control over all ports of common status, measuring instruments and complete online control. This is extremely important to me. Last but not least, the double standards around the so-called office gas stations must be removed. Again, I am very much appealing in this process that grain producers and companies which are end-users of the fuels in question are not affected in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u211	Would you like to use the backrest, Mrs. Bachvarova? No. Now I am informed that GERB has missed its turn in this order with regard to the size of the parliamentary groups. So here you are, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u212	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Kuneva, my question to you is caused by yesterday's pleasant statement, which you made, announcing that Bulgaria has the opportunity to become part of the Schengen area at the end of the year, at least by overcoming the so-called blue borders. Yes, it is a fact that our entry into Schengen has been determined since Bulgaria's accession to the European Union, but so far this has not happened for one reason or another, rather political. It is also a fact and I share your view that although the number of countries that made certain reservations towards Bulgaria's accession to the European Union is reduced, there are still criteria such as the judiciary and internal order, which are sufficiently broad and capable of being the basis of various speculations, if you will. My question in this regard is: how do you think these deficit lines could be overcome by the end of the year through objectively presented results? Do you think this is possible to happen? Second question: if yes, in what order and when do you intend to systematize the work? When do you think that the issue of Bulgaria's accession to the Schengen area could come on Europe's agenda? I believe that this is a long enough discussed topic, which concerns a very large part of the Bulgarian citizens. In fact, this is also the next step to complement this full European look of ours to make people physically feel another way that they are part of the European community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u213	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Come in for an answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u214	Mr. Georgiev, an extremely timely matter for two reasons. One reason is because of the Internal Affairs Council, which will be on 15 June. This is a Council during which the issue of the entry of Bulgaria and Romania into Schengen can be dealt with if there is an attitude from all member states. There is no reason to insist on an item on the agenda unless we are sure that we will meet absolutely full support. The other reason to appreciate the opportunity to answer you is that I am returning yesterday from Burgas, where we were inspecting Bulgaria's readiness to enter the blue borders. It's air and sea. The colleagues there have impressive training. It is not a coincidence that the airport operates in conjunction with the German airport, which is an extremely well prepared airport. Four and a half years there was a project with German partners. They're extremely well-trained. The head of border guards there is capable, has a certificate and is an expert in training experts from the old countries so that they can exercise Schengen control. In other words, the human and technical factors are in absolute readiness.. 13 border ships have been replaced along the blue border. They are all in extremely good condition. People know what they're doing. Frankly, the delay in entering Schengen has been very disproven to me. They will do their job less well, but when someone has put in so much effort, there must be an appreciation of their merits. That is why I believe that we politicians are in debt, because work from here on, especially on the Blue borders by sea and air, is political. What was done here? Since March, diplomatic efforts have been concentrated. I've prepared a list of arguments. He's been sent to all our missions. It has also been sent through the local ambassadors of the European Union to get acquainted with our arguments. A tabal reference has also been prepared for the ruling political parties so that each of your political families here can insist on their partners to create pressure and a positive atmosphere for the accession of Bulgaria and Romania to Schengen. I have a meeting with Mrs. Grozdanova tomorrow and Mrs. Bachvarova and I will discuss to the Foreign Committee where we are. Visits were made in Germany, Sweden, France. The conclusions that can be made are as follows: Germany recognises the efforts, but expects not only the development of strategies, road maps and other documents in the area of reform of the judiciary and the fight against corruption, but the implementation of the laws. I was able to bring down from seven countries that were opposed to, to one and a half sides, I would say, who are still holding back. Germany is an extremely key partner in this regard. For me, linking judicial reform to our Schengen accession is not a good prospect. This, on the one hand, causes judicial reform and internal reform too much to speed up and have in-depth and thoughtless solutions. They're starting to hear rumours that there should be almost a standard of convicts. That's not the approach. On the other hand, if things are going the way they should go, step by step, in depth, how long is a judicial reform being made in five years? For ten? The most important thing for us is that we are not a second category country of security. What is happening with Macedonia right now is that we have three borders with very problematic countries - Ukraine, our border with Turkey. Because they are only one territory away from a huge conflict, from what is now happening to our neighbours. I think it is extremely positive that Ukraine wants a European road, that Turkey and Macedonia are countries that also state such a desire. That means there's an opportunity to influence it. However, if Bulgaria and Romania are part of Schengen, this means that Europe responds to threats with more integration and not more disintegration. We're doing everything we can. I believe that Parliament Speaker Tsacheva has done what is necessary because the German Bundestag is quite reserved in recent days. Mrs. Bachvarova is, of course, a major player here because the Schengen issue is solved by the interior ministers in most of the countries. Frankly, I rely very much on the Prime Minister. These are guarantees at the highest level that Bulgaria will not stop reforms in any area when we are admitted to Schengen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u215	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva, for such a comprehensive response. I am very pleased with what you are saying, because, as at the beginning of the question I pointed out, Schengen is one of the areas where Bulgaria's good implementation and entry into the Schengen area will make citizens feel the benefits of our European membership. You have touched on a subject that raises another question and perhaps it is appropriate to pay the necessary attention to it, because in foreign policy I suppose that this will dominate the Bulgarian public space in the forthcoming time. Do you think that this could in any way compromise or this could be a pillar on which we can lean on and say: "Behold, Bulgaria is a geostrategic centre in the Balkans, through which it could influence the positive resolution of this conflict?"..................................... and help convince our European partners that we are ready for Schengen as we are and we are. We are constantly declaring our political and technical readiness and security to take over to become part of the Schengen area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u217	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Madame Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u218	Mr. Georgiev, sometimes it is a matter of literally hours what will begin to flow into public opinion in a country and these are very decisive hours. It can be read one way or another. To a large extent, it depends on the courage of politicians in the countries concerned, whether they prefer to remain silent over populism and over the shouts: "Let's close the borders because some strangers come and have not been in the European Union long enough. There are problems there and we better close the borders. " - You know that the image of our country has been repeatedly attacked by such voices. That's one thesis. The other thesis is that the answer to any danger in the world is much stronger Europe. A much stronger Europe is becoming with integration, not disintegration. Unfortunately, we have events ahead of us, like elections always. You know, then, how many different voices are heard in countries. Some will be tempted to use it as a pre-election rhetoric, let us close Bulgaria, Romania and the other countries -- the Balkan countries -- initially do not enjoy the security sign -- and say that this will rather be the guardians of Paradise -- as one European philosopher had said -- rather than being a true integral part of the European Union in all directions -- both as part of the euro and as part of Schengen, and as serious partners. There have always been difficulties. Every negotiating position I have opened and closed with all the countries that were then members of the European Union. Negotiations are never conducted in a laboratory environment, they are conducted with what we currently have as a situation in different countries. There is a clear victory for the conservatives in Britain. They are not a Schengen member, but they have a very strong.. they have renegotiated their terms of cooperation in Schengen, they have a very strong voice there. They have a referendum ahead of them, and I am sure that there will be arguments in this direction how open they will be. Ireland is a neighbouring country for which this is also extremely important, i.e. I think they will be cautious. My request to you, I'm sorry the House isn't with all 240 MPs. This is not just Schengen, it is a sense of justice, it is a feeling that we as politicians can reach what we have promised. Furthermore, if we all do not unite and anyone who, where, when speaking, repeats that we are not a second category of Europeans and that we cannot be questioned as a security of our country, yes, I cannot say that there will ever be a hundred percent certainty, I cannot say that I have made a hundred percent effort to make this security happen. Until we all start talking about it, we're not gonna make it. It takes a lot of willpower! Yesterday in Burgas, I would especially like to commend the people who organized the visit there had a meeting with the business, especially with the tourist business. They all came up with a declaration in support of Bulgaria's entry into Schengen. That was an extraordinary gesture on their part. Today I have a meeting with German businessmen and I will give them this declaration. However, we have to do it all - 240 people, plus the government, plus the presidency, absolutely all non-governmental organizations. This is indeed a huge and important effort and will echo in many more places than just that we have become Schengen members. It's very important!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-13.u219	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, for participating in today's parliamentary control under art. 104 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The time scheduled for today's plenary session is up at 14.05 pm. Tomorrow we continue with a second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Products with an importer The Council of Ministers is the fourth item on our agenda. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
