ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. Please register. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Today we continue with the debates on the National Health Strategy 2020 and the Project for a Decision on its adoption. A statement application yesterday also made Mr. Semir Abu Melih. We're listening. Until the colleague comes to recall the time of the parliamentary groups: GERB has 40 minutes, BSP and DPS have run out of time, Reformer's Bloc We're listening, Mr. Abu Melih.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, today we must vote on the Bulgarian Health Strategy. Firstly, everyone needs to know, especially from the left, that the strategy should be voted not for anything, but simply our funding is extremely... We need euro-financing. And this is the key to this money from Europe. It's a sin if it's because of one nagging with the minister or politics that we're missing this money. It's like a concept of voting. Otherwise, the Strategy itself... Of course, I congratulate the ministry, the minister, and his team who wrote this Strategy. She's the kind of volume that... As a matter of fact, it's like a poem. It's a unique description. Really unique! You start, at first you read, there's a great deal of romance. [[Elevator bell dings]] ...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u3	Pictures.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u4	...to a serious severity of actions and so on. And like every poem, there has to be a hero. I sat down to read, I wanted to find out who the hero was, but a little complicated topic. [[Radio.]] Listen to me. [[Radio.]] In principle, the hero of each poem is the person or person that repeats the most. I put in some keywords to see what this is about. Here I have made a statistic where the word for example "patient" repeats 123 times, the word "life" which is the basis of this Strategy, which is 117 times, the word "sisters" three times, the word "medics" 32 times and the words "financials and money" 230 times. And that's the hero of the poem, the financials and the money, from a sample of the Strategy itself. From then on, I began to see these finances and money... Indeed, this is the problem of the Bulgarian health care sector. We need additional funding or the so-called "advancing model" which, in general, I think the entire National Assembly is convinced that this is the solution for our health care. I put the word "advancing model" and the result is zero, which personally worries me very much, because instead of a builder model there are complex insurances and insurance holders and it is repeated only three times. It's a type of voluntary, extra insurance. It's like civil responsibility to make it an additional, voluntary civic responsibility. It's just fairy tales. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Bulgarian healthcare still has no problem with doctors and staff who are the basis and pillar of this healthcare. There's more of them. The Bulgarian young people, who go to universities and study, have them, they try, they become doctors. We just need to open the system to them, give them this system the reward they deserve, so that they can develop in their own homeland. The well-deserved remuneration of the National Health Insurance Fund is already exhausted! You can't. And just so you know, yesterday there were a few passes that the Cashier's resource was drained. The Cashier's resources have been drained! Do you know what the truth is? The cassa offers a huge assortment of the Bulgarians a huge assortment. Ten years ago, he offered half the services he offers today with the same money he has today. So how will the account come out? It's impossible. Of course, I also realize and you also know it's impossible to raise health insurance, say 10, or 12, or 13. The Bulgarian himself will say: why do you raise me the money that you will take back to your house later! It doesn't make sense. The only option we have is to put in the building pole. The so-called "demonopolization" is not accepted as a word because demonopolization scares separate sectors of the National Assembly. However, the builder model, the partial demonopleization.. to give the patient this tool with which to lead the system, that is the truth in the Strategy. Otherwise, writing so many pages and not having the real solution, that's not good. This is absurd, because the strategy itself, if it is read and especially those who are in the Committee on Health, know it very well "If you read the Strategy carefully, it is not just general talk. Indeed, there are things in there that happen and are done for them. All these works do not lead to the building model, to a centralized system led by one or two administrative ones. But how are you going to lead 150,000 people who are directly involved in this activity administratively and also two million people who are using it? It's impossible, the patient himself should be at the center of attention. And he, our man, is mentioned over 123 times. How's this gonna work? Why? The building model is the base, the base, the base! We shouldn't, we shouldn't be afraid to talk about it! Health ministers all of them, all of them acting in the same way, all of them looking for the fix within that money, which have them and start what not to do: massage the system, turn it on their backs, on their stomachs and so on. There's no way they're gonna make it! There's no way that's gonna happen. There's gotta be extra power. If 30 kilos of this system is released today, it works with 80 and we have nowhere to go from this job. That's why my request is for you. 2016 is a serious year for health care. Let all parliamentary groups start really thinking about the building model. Let this National Assembly unite and once and for all end with these topics, and not every time as gum we chew the topic from year to year and to nowhere, to nowhere! I wish the Ministry, the Strategy, the National Assembly success! If I hadn't been a responsible man and the government, I would have really, honestly voted against. Sincerely! [[Laughter and applause from BSP LB.]] I support the government, but I don't support that. It doesn't work like that, it can't! The document that will decide our fates must be correct, to see the future, not just fairy tales, fairy tales, and finally to decide what it is? I don't know! That's not how it works! Thank you very much. The building model is the next step and we must be prepared before preparing it for the Bulgarian himself. We need to be prepared ourselves. Otherwise we won't get anywhere. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u5	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I shall put it to the vote: "Project" DECISION on the adoption of the National Health Strategy 2020 National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 3, para. 2 of the Health Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the National Health Strategy 2020. Application in the Commission's version. We vote. They voted 145 MPs: 103, against 27, abstention 15. The proposal has been accepted, and the National Health Strategy has been adopted. Negative vote, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted negatively, and I suppose most of you would have, as Mr. Abu Melih said, if you hadn't been in charge! I understand that the strategy is really important to continue construction and repair work in hospitals. That is true, but we, as the National Assembly, can hardly afford to accept, because of the building and repairing of hospitals, to accept things related to human health that have nothing to do with improving the health service; to continue to give the impression that the decisions we make are more for the benefit of construction companies than for the benefit of the patient, because in the end it can come out. We cannot afford to launch with our decisions such documents, which are called 'Strategies', all the more so knowing from the very beginning that this document cannot be called 'Strategy', within the next five years,............................ are for 20 years, not less! Moreover, there are things exotic in terms of legislation and there are terms that do not even exist at the moment in legal peace and some of them contradict it. We voted with the clear awareness that such documents should not be accepted and such an approach to making these documents under laboratory conditions, under the sole authority of the Minister and only with his whims, inserted inside, including his picture on the front, on the front page, is unacceptable, laughter and insult to the entire National Assembly!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u7	There's no photo. I said in the Commission's version. That's what we've accepted. You couldn't have voted against something that wasn't there.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u8	No, no, I said... Madam President, I'm sorry, if you're going to say something, take a line, I'll answer it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u9	I can't get a procedure, otherwise I'd answer you. Is there a second negative vote? Mr. Gokov. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Semir Abu Melih has a personal explanation and will take it back to answer to Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u10	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I voted against it, because overall the strategy may seem good, well structured, as colleague Abu Melih said with pictures, with main characters, diagrams, graphics. It seems very perspective and offers us as a final goal a good goal.. create modern health care and care of the state for the protection of public health. At the same time, however, there are a lot of inaccuracies and omissions. What is more important is that the entire strategy lacks roads and ways, if you will, a plan for its implementation. This makes me and my colleagues in the parliamentary group not to support it because we do not accept it in its entirety and we do not see how it will achieve the objectives it sets itself. I voted against this strategy because this Strategy does not help solve the problems in almost any of the areas of health, especially those identified as problematic and in previous strategies, and I am sure that these problematic areas will remain the same after the launch of the National Health Strategy. I voted against it because, in my opinion, the biggest problem of Bulgarian healthcare is the impossible access of a large part of the Bulgarian population to health services for organizational reasons, but mostly for financial reasons. However, there is no hint in the strategy to solve this problem for Bulgarian citizens. If we go outside now, before the National Assembly and ask ten people what their opinion on Bulgarian healthcare is, nine of them will answer that Bulgarian healthcare is disastrous. I'm sure that won't change after this strategy has been activated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u11	Third negative vote? I won't. Personal explanation Mr. Abu Melih.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u12	Dear Mr. Ermenkov, this Strategy and your strategy are the same thing. Don't think that the strategies that the Ministry is running are very different from each other. I told you in the beginning: the purpose of the strategy is to use euro funds to fix our hospitals. There's nothing wrong with that. There's nothing wrong with that! The framework in which Bulgarian healthcare is moving is confused a wooden framework that for nothing works is the truth! If the left hand wants to make progress, if you want to go through and become a 2016 model and not stand with your ideas from 20 years ago, go to thinking to have a real building model! It's a real building model! It's for the benefit of your constituents too, understand that! The strategy of how it was written, why it was written, you do not know the last term what your strategy was. Ask your colleagues who are here. [[General applause from GERB.]] It's the same thing, it's the same thing, it's the same thing, it's the same thing, it's the same thing, it's the same thing, it's the same thing! [[BSP LB.]] It's the truth, understand it! That is why I voted for the European funding. You are very interesting: if we absorb euro money, you are angry, if we do not absorb it, you are angry again! Is there any pleasure at all?! Sit down, hold a meeting and decide once and for all what you will do with health care! You have excellent experts with you. The health care people who are in the left-wing group understand. But don't smash them with those slogans 30 years ago that are worn out. Your voter wants better health care. He wants PET-STs for diagnosis and follow-up. It's £4,000.! Fifty thousand of these went to your budget. Will you give it to me?! You want to give them away? From where? From the Republican budget or the eight percent? I'm telling you, it's not you, it's the frame! It's not in any of them. Thank you. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u13	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u14	You're welcome, Mr. Iankov. He hasn't spoken yet, he wants to show himself in the stands. Here you go. [[Laughter at GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u15	Madam President, colleagues! Such misdirections, Mrs. Tsacheva, do not go to the President of the National Assembly. You understand that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u16	The Vice-President asked me a question: what do you want?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u17	Such throws also do not go through microphones to be heard from the place you occupy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u18	You're right, I agree.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u19	I take the floor in the manner of conduct because, Madam President, you did not interrupt the colleague who just took the floor for a personal explanation because he provoked, first, separation in Bulgarian society as voters. Secondly, he tried to instill that he was one of the experts who prescribed how to work part of the Bulgarian Parliament in the face of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria, and at the same time, I remind my colleagues that perhaps Mr. Abu Melih had to declare a conflict of interest in this vote. And all of this as a suggestion has become a political debate, and this, as a process, perhaps the experts should have spoken, but we are taking decisions from the perspective of Bulgarian citizens as patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u20	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. I personally expected you to criticize me... [[Conversation between the MPs Semir Abu Melih and Krasimir Jankov.]] Mr. Yankov! Mr. Iankov, I personally have two minutes to respond to the procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u21	I'll listen with interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u22	I personally expected you to criticize me for going out on the stand, entering into a dialogue with Mr. Semir Abu Melih and thus reducing his time in which he praised the experts in your parliamentary group in the field of health. I've been lied to in your expectations. [[Radio.]] Moving on to the next point: PROJECT FOR A DECLARATION WITH REGARD TO THE INVITED INVITED INVITED TO A BLACK GORE FOR MEMBERSHIP IN NATO. It's a report from the Foreign Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u23	Madam President, honourable Members! "COMMODITY" on a draft declaration concerning the invitation to Montenegro for NATO membership No 554-03-16 submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Lutvi Mestan, Radan Kanev, Valeri Simeonov, Krasimir Karakachanov, Krasimira Kovachka, Svetlin Tanchev, Miho Mihov, Gemma Grozdanova, Plamen Manushev, Boris Stanimirov, Angel Naydenov, Atanas Merdjanov and Valentin Radev on 8 December 2015. At a meeting held on 10 December 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee examined a draft declaration concerning Montenegro's invitation to join NATO. The reasons for the draft declaration were presented by the MP from GERB Gemma Grozdanova. Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Valentin Porazov expressed the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in support of the draft declaration. Over the past 11 years, our country has consistently supported Montenegro's NATO bid. Bulgaria has actively contributed to Montenegro's decision to include Montenegro in the enhanced partnership dialogue with NATO as early as 2008, and later to the provision of a NATO Action Plan. Bilaterally, in 2014, Bulgaria reaffirmed its support for Montenegro's Euro-Atlantic integration, including speeding up Montenegro's invitation to join NATO. On 2 December this year, at a meeting of the North Atlantic Council in Brussels, NATO foreign ministers decided to invite Montenegro to join the Alliance. The official announcement of the invitation will take place at the NATO Summit in Warsaw next year. With this declaration, the MPs would like to confirm their support for Montenegro and their active commitment to NATO's parliamentary dimension. Bulgaria fully supports the democratic reforms Montenegro has undertaken, as well as the actions it has shown to adhere to the common Euro-Atlantic values and the establishment of the rule of law. The decision to invite Montenegro to join NATO at the moment is of geopolitical importance for strengthening regional and international security. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 14 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft declaration concerning the call for Montenegro to join NATO on 8 December 2015, No 554-03-16, submitted on 8 December 2015. Madam President, let's introduce our colleagues to the text of the declaration. Project! The delegation of power on the invitation to Montenegro for NATO membership Recalling that NATO member states are uniting their efforts to protect the freedom of their peoples, their common heritage and civilisation, which are based on the principles of democracy, freedom of personality and the rule of law; - having regard to Montenegro's consistent efforts to meet NATO membership criteria, as well as its contribution to the Alliance's activities; - stressing that Montenegro's accession to NATO will contribute to the stability and security of the Western Balkans region and the Euro-Atlantic area; - taking into account the fact that support for the Euro-Atlantic integration of the Western Balkan countries is one of the main directions of the foreign policy of the Republic of Bulgaria in the context of the realization of our national interests; - establishing the excellent friendly relations between the Republic of Bulgaria and Montenegro; - referring to active cooperation between the two countries in recent years in the field of Euro-Atlantic and European integration; - referring to the North Atlantic Council Decision of 2 December 2015 inviting Montenegro to launch membership negotiations in the Alliance, Forty-third National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria: 1. He gives his sincere congratulations to Montenegro on NATO's decision to invite the country to join the Alliance. 2. Expresses confidence that Montenegro will continue unreservedly along the path of successful implementation of the necessary reforms. 3. Announced readiness to carry out as soon as possible the national ratification procedures for Montenegro's accession protocols after the negotiations on its accession have been completed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u24	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! When this declaration was examined in the Committee on Foreign Policy, a proposal for an addition to the text was made for me. I did not hear it now, it was rejected in the Commission, but I think it is also appropriate to put the Parliamentary Chamber in place to decide.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u26	Now you can do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u27	I think it should be in the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u28	It's not in the report. Since it is not supported by the Commission, this is where you should do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u29	To the text concerning the Western Balkans: Taking into account the fact that support for the Euro-Atlantic integration of the countries of the Western Balkans is one of the main directions of the foreign policy of the Republic of Bulgaria, in the context of the realization of our national interests.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u30	It does not go stylistically to be united because there is a speech about other things here, but you are making your proposal anyway. Repeat it one more time so I can write it down.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u31	In the context of the realization of national interests and protection of the rights of the Bulgarian communities in the Western Balkans, it is said in the above sentence the Western Balkans. My argument about this is this. This is about Montenegro, we have nothing against the invitation to Montenegro. If the text did not have this paragraph for the Western Balkans, we would not have proposed the text for the Bulgarian communities. But it is important in a declaration when we say that we will support the Western Balkan countries in the Euro-Atlantic structures, to emphasise what Bulgaria's interest is. In the past 25 years Bulgaria has always claimed that it insists that the Western Balkan countries protect the rights of the Bulgarian minorities or communities there according to how they are recognised. Another is the question in Montenegro whether there are Bulgarians or not, because there is a lot of internal migration in Yugoslavia itself from the Western suburbs, from Macedonia, people who live there. We know Macedonia's claims for Macedonian national minorities in different countries. From this point of view, it is important for Bulgaria to state that the entry of these countries into the Euro-Atlantic structures is precisely through the rights of the Bulgarian minorities in them to be respected. One of the obligations of the Bulgarian state is that. We insist that this text be voted on so that the Bulgarians from the Western Balkans can understand that the Bulgarian state, the Bulgarian Parliament, are behind them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u32	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the Commission, we discussed the colleague's proposal. I believe that the policy that leads Bulgaria is not contrary to anything he said, but in this declaration is not the place of this supplement, because the purpose of what is written in this paragraph is to show NATO's commitment to integration, the accession of the Western Balkans as a policy. The introduction of such a text, which concerns the rights of the Bulgarian communities there, will focus the attention of the entire declaration at a time which is not the subject of this declaration and is not the subject of NATO's activities, the desire to support the Western Balkans and their integration. NATO's deep vision of the Western Balkans is their integration to stabilise the region and overcome all historical accumulations in hundreds of years. I believe that this supplement is not the place in this declaration that will change its meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u34	It has no place for a greeting address at the first point of the declaration, but it is inside. Second line? It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Manushev! Sometimes small things, certain phrases, are very important when they are said by the Bulgarian National Assembly and messages are sent to certain countries. I will remind you of a few facts over the past 25 years when Bulgaria supports Western Balkan countries, and they do not respect the rights of Bulgarians there and do not recognise the Bulgarian minorities, although in their constitutions minorities are allowed to be recognised and recognised. I'll give an example. Bulgaria was the first to recognise Macedonia. Has the situation of the Bulgarians in Macedonia improved? Bulgaria is one of the first countries to recognise Kosovo! Did Kosovo recognise a Bulgarian minority? And he admitted eight or ten other minorities, some of which do not exist at all as such in the world! Bulgaria supports Albania for NATO! Albania does not recognise a Bulgarian minority of Macedonian, Greek, Serbian, recognizes two language "Gypsy and Romanian" or "Vlask." So what do we do? We support the countries. Not to mention Slovenia, Bosnia and Croatia, we are also one of the first to recognise them. In which of these countries showed a gesture to Bulgaria to say: "In our country there are Bulgarians, there are no Macedonians, there are no Gorans, there are no Zhupani, there are Nazis and any other fictions that were invented during totalitarian regimes? That's why it's our proposal, and it's not unnecessary. And I told you in the Commission: then why should I write the national interests of Bulgaria? The interests of NATO are not in line with the national interests of Bulgaria! We want this text to be supported because we have many examples in this direction. I won't recall Ukraine either. We were the first ones to support the democratic changes there lately, people from the left ruled back then. But what's happening? Why can't Bulgarians wear Bulgarian names in Ukraine? Why can't Todor be called Todor but his name is Fyodor? These are the partner countries, are these the friendly countries?! Let me ask you something else: where did this 100,000-dollar help go? EUR [[the President signals that time has run out]] which has been voted for a year and is not for the Bulgarians in Ukraine?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u36	This is outside the topic of financial assistance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u37	Off the subject, but it's part of the subject of my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u38	Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u39	Madam President, honourable Members! A moment ago, on the occasion of another document, both from the ranks of our parliamentary group and from the ranks of the government, it was noted that the National Assembly cannot accept everything that enters here. What is the point of a declaration made on the occasion of an invitation? The declaration can be made when the invitation becomes a fact when the membership of the state becomes a fact! I can't understand the point of this procedure, of this declaration, to write in it that we congratulate Montenegro that someone has invited her somewhere! I suggest we respect each other a little bit more as parliament, stop running before events, because they may not happen and then find ourselves in the situation of those who have written the invitation to the wedding, but neither the groom is convinced that he will marry, the bride is not sure, and the best man is not! Please be very careful about what is happening around us. I would like to support my colleague Angelov in particular, because the Western Balkans cannot be stabilized automatically by applying Euro-Atlantic values on their discussion scale. The Western Balkans are a complex political reality that will continue to worry European politics decades ahead. And the question will not be resolved through mechanical anschluss, regardless of which values we are talking about. Bulgaria has its own immediate interests in the Western Balkans, unlike other countries that belong to the North Atlantic Pact. And the Bulgarian Parliament cannot lightly congratulate this and that, especially for an invitation. I strongly object to the adoption of such a declaration. I will personally vote against the following arguments: the declaration does not reflect the interests of the Bulgarian state and does not take them into account with regard to the state of the rights of the Bulgarian minority in Serbia, Macedonia and other parts of the former Yugoslavia. The declaration does not reflect the actual status of membership, but only the invitation and there is no reason for the Bulgarian Parliament to be committed to such a document. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u40	First line, Mr. Korman Ismailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Jablyanov! It is very clear and the simple meaning of this declaration is an expression of encouragement and support. And from what you say, not only sees, but it becomes clear that there are anti-NATO attitudes and moods which, for a large part of the Chamber, are seen not only by these actions, but also by actions related to the aircraft repair case, the MiGs, in the NATO country and many, many other such examples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u42	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Jablyanov, once again you amaze me. The invitation to start negotiations with Montenegro is not the beginning, it is not a letter of NATO's intention. On the contrary, Montenegro has had relations with NATO since 2003 as part of Serbia-Montenegro and since 2006, since being an independent state. The invitation to NATO negotiations, Mr. Zablyanov, is the last stage to complete these negotiations and, if there is one very clear support, a very clear signal of support, as early as July at the Warsaw summit, Montenegro could become a full NATO member. Please, for a clear interpretation and understanding of the procedures. I will not go into more details about the importance of Euro-Atlantic integration of the Western Balkans, including the national interest of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Anastasov. Any other lines? Here you go. You have the floor, dear Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u45	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! We heard that Mr. Zablyanov will vote against a draft statement whose importers are also Angel Naydenov and Atanas Merdjanov, which is an interesting political model and tool. [[Noise and lines from BSP.]] We wonder at the following thing: BSP, you must say that you are against the enlargement of NATO from here on out? That's what you have to be honest with yourself. Because from the many words you have said, it has not become clear whether the BSP is against NATO enlargement from now on? Make it clear! Because you were stalling, you talked, but it didn't become clear to the end what BSP's position was. I hope, given the fact that colleagues Merdjanov and Naydenov have signed the declaration that the party's position is to support and that it is to expand NATO. That's the way it goes. If this is BSP's position, this is the right position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u46	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u47	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to start with a statement by my colleague Angelov. Sorry, but the North Atlantic Pact is not the prophet. Words can be said against him. Secondly, this is an organization that is not infallible. She has her collective and sole leadership, she has military and political leadership... [[Noise and lines.]] Those who were members of the North Atlantic Pact changed their own position in terms of their national interests. This is a question that is good to consider, to get acquainted with it before referring to the superficial procedures of one, I would say, of a militaristic expansion of the Pact, which is at the heart of today's destabilization of the world. But that's another question. As for the last question, which was raised, this highest authority of the legislative authority in the Republic of Bulgaria will rise only when the MPs in it begin to reflect their own opinion. Let them come out of the discipline of the parliamentary groups and start thinking as representatives of the Bulgarian people. When we talk about the Western Balkans, I would like to draw attention to one fact. Western Balkans in this state as a result of the aggression of the North Atlantic Pact against Yugoslavia [[SIGHS FROM GERB]] in 1999, as a result of the destruction and war against the citizens of Belgrade, of Surdolica, of Nis and of Pirot, of the tens, hundreds and thousands of victims of the Serbian people. I would like to say the following: today, there is-is not 15 years after these events, to rape the story with fictional, schematic, geopolitical moves that aim anything else, but not stabilization of the Western Balkans, does not go to the Bulgarian Parliament, which seems to me to have the memory of the complexity of the political processes in the Balkans and should be correct at these moments to the mistakes of those factors that they believe are infallible in our area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u48	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Yonchev. Mr. Vigenin after him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u49	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Let us, when we talk about NATO enlargement in the Western Balkans, not party politics, but national policy, because there is no particular ideology in this. On the contrary, if we are talking about stabilisation of the Western Balkans, it is possible and one of the main ways for this is integration into NATO of the entire region. So let's stop talking about if there's an ideology, if there's a party interest in this whole process. Speaking of which, I am also inclined to support the proposals of colleague Angelov because, let us understand that in addition to Bulgaria's specific interest in expanding NATO in the Western Balkans and for stabilisation, there is another specific interest and this is the minority problem in many countries. With parliamentary diplomacy, there is nothing wrong with saying in such a declaration that those who have aspirations for NATO membership from now on, and we know who they are, should have this in mind. I think this text finds a pretty good system place in one such declaration. I propose that we support him in this House because that is why the Bulgarian Parliament is committed to this position. One is the Bulgarian interest, again I repeat "The enlargement of NATO in the Balkans is part of peacemaking, of integration, of peace in the Balkans, and even more specific of our interest is the Bulgarian minorities in this process to be protected. So, colleagues, I suggest we support the declaration in its entirety plus Mr. Angelov's proposal. Thank you. [[Applause from the BDZ.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Yonchev. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Vigenin, come in. The word is from the people's representative Christian Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I think that the declaration, which has been proposed today, is a balanced text, which is a consistent position of the Bulgarian state, government, parliament in the last 15 years and perhaps a little more years. It reflects Bulgaria's Balkan policy and policy in Southeast Europe during this period, which is related to Bulgaria's support for the membership of the Western Balkan countries, especially in recent years after our accession, the membership of these countries in NATO and the European Union. I would like to draw attention to the fact that today we are not discussing NATO's positions and actions on one issue or another, we are not discussing the meaning of Bulgaria's membership in NATO and its results, its harms and benefits, and we are not discussing this, and I think that we should not discuss and assess whether it is good for Montenegro to be part of NATO or not. I think this country has made its choice, at least until now, has been preparing for this moment for years and received an invitation as a result of the successive efforts of a series of Bulgarian governments including. I think that this small country, which is one of Bulgaria's closest countries in Southeast Europe, deserves one encouragement from the Bulgarian Parliament. The final decision on whether or not it will be part of NATO is to be taken by the very parliament of the Republic of Montenegro. This will most likely happen after the next elections, because this is how the sequence of invitations emerges, but I would also like to draw attention to my colleagues from the Bulgarian Socialist Party, who, of course... We are a democratic party, there are different opinions in it. This is normal, unlike other political forces, where it is voted under formation and positions are not subject to special discussions, but to note that for years in Montenegro, the Socialist Party, which is a close partner of BSP in the Socialist International, has been associated with the Party of European Socialists. Together we have been through various political battles and I believe that the meaning of this declaration is also the support of our political partners there. However, I would like to draw attention to something else. Counting that this declaration will receive broad support, I would like to draw attention to another topic which was conveniently missed by the Foreign Policy Committee yesterday because of the lack of a meeting. BSP has also proposed an extremely balanced text regarding the economic sanctions imposed by the European Union to the Russian Federation and vice versa the contractions of the Russian Federation. [[Noise and lines.]] It concerned and continues to affect, of course, a very simple, simple thing, a small step worth taking in these tense days, namely a proposal that we wanted the Bulgarian Prime Minister to make in the European Council, all MEPs who are on the EU's sentencing lists, to be taken out and, accordingly, to agree on a similar decision by the Russian Federation. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u52	Mr. Glauchev, what does this have to do with the subject?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u53	I'm paying attention, Mr. Atanasov. I understand you're somewhat uncomfortable with this subject. You have more serious issues to deal with.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u54	But it's not about the subject being discussed!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u55	There's no connection to the discussion, there's a connection to...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u56	But it's not about the subject being discussed, that's the main problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u57	There is a connection, Mr. Glauchev, that in this Parliament we should learn about the important issues for Bulgaria to seek agreement. This agreement was deliberately postponed on this subject at the very least when it would be very pointless, as the issues of sanctions against the Russian Federation and vice versa, the contractions of the Russian Federation against the European Union will be closed in the coming months. Therefore, we need to learn to appreciate the sensitivity of individual political forces on different issues and also to seek the Bulgarian national interest. On both topics BSP through its representatives, through the signatures it placed under this declaration and the other proposal I mentioned, sought the Bulgarian national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u59	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support the declaration. The main reason to do this is the Bulgarian national interest. He was also commented in other speeches without any specifics. I would like to point out several specific reasons for how this declaration works synergically with the Bulgarian national interest. Firstly, honourable Members, the people of Montenegro have made their choice. Our declaration is a sign of an act of support for a country to go where we have also made our choice to be. It's a friendly sign. This is a friendly sign, and it is the signs of friendship that always benefit the national interest of each country. Furthermore, honourable Members, we are close by territory and it is very important for us that the Balkans be a peaceful, prosperous territory. NATO provides security in all its aspects. A serious problem in the Balkans is financial stability and social security. That is where all the problems arise, including minorities, colleagues. There can be no serious movement of financial flows, investments that guarantee the prosperity of the countries if there is no certainty in the real sense of the word. From this point of view, we believe that this will benefit the Balkans, including Bulgaria, as an extension of its trade opportunities and contacts with people. With countries close by values, it is much easier to communicate in all areas. As for the text proposed by colleagues, we believe that our sign should be to invest in full democracy, which will provide the basis for prosperity and freedom of the individual of all citizens, including Bulgarian minorities and to choose their own name. Admission to NATO, both for Bulgaria, honourable Members, meant, and for Montenegro, this would mean investment of values, opportunities in particular with regard to freedom of personality, human rights, so this declaration is a sign that Bulgaria must give and that is why we will do it. And we are convinced that this will benefit the Balkans and Europe as a whole, because Bulgaria, if it had not become a member of NATO, was also in question our entry into the European Union, so it is very important that this support be given by serious quantitative potential of the Bulgarian Parliament and this will be a good sign of the state of Bulgarian democracy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. A line? The People's Representative Georgi Bojinov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u61	I have a line, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u62	And you want a line? Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Yankov, I will only replicate one sentence. You said it was worth supporting investment in full democracy. Mr. Yankov, life and practice show that especially external investments for the purposes of some imaginary full democracy always lead to its denial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojinov. Second line. "The People's Representative Julian Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u65	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask you to pay attention to the other part of the National Assembly when there is a reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u66	Since you're in the stands, I must have turned around.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u67	However, before the BSP colleagues, I asked for a line. [[Reply from BSP LB.]] My line is to Mr. Iankov because the DPS is always arguing about human rights, about human rights, how liberal they are, how minorities should support themselves, how ethnic rights, rights, rights, and we don't see at least this year I didn't see a gesture from the DPS to support something related to the rights of Bulgarians abroad. [[The National Representative Lutvi Mestan enters the Chamber. He stops in front of the stand and watches the speaker.]] In any committee, the representatives of the DPS shall not vote or vote on abstentions, or against such proposals, in this House shall not vote on such things. We find it interesting when you defend human rights: when it is in the interest of the Republic of Turkey, or when it is in the interest of the Bulgarian state?! And if you're honest, objective, moral, liberal human rights defenders, say from this tribune, will you support this editorial? [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Mestan, if your diopter's too small, take another pair of glasses. Thank you. [[Laughter, excitement and applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u68	Any other lines? Mr. Mestan, let's get Mr. Iankov to do the doppelganger first, let's finish the procedure, and then I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u69	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear colleagues, there are no imaginary democracies. [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] Because we also make investments in these democracies, we make them with our children, honourable colleagues. Our children are there in these democracies, which means their choice is not imaginary. We are starting to turn our democracy into an imaginary concept because of such sometimes speeches, because of such actions that ultimately take us away from the democratic spectrum and not put us there. The movement for rights and freedoms has always protected the rights of people, honourable Members, of all. We therefore want to say that we, when looking after human rights, must take care of the rights of all people. This is extremely important! NATO gives such an opportunity. In Bulgaria, we largely distort it. I don't see why you have to involve the Republic of Turkey in this whole situation.! By the way, with our actions it can be so that in Bulgaria we are constantly limiting the rights of Bulgarians in their own country. What we do sometimes with such oppositions, with such actions, is exactly in this direction and does not honor us. One of the reasons our kids are running abroad is because of this. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u70	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. For a personal explanation, there is a popular representative Lutvi Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u71	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Angelov, it's not a drama to have a problem with sight. It may even be a short diopter. It's not a drama. It's a real drama if it's a short diopter of thought. I think you did something like that. Thank you. [[Laughter and excitement. Claps by DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u72	Mr. Martin Dimitrov has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u73	Dear Mr. Chairman! My fellow Members, I am sorry that the debate has gone in the direction of short thoughts and short dioptres. I would like to bring you back to the point and call you.... is very important the sign that the Bulgarian Parliament will give today. It must be in favour of this declaration, and it is also important that BSP vote as a second political force in this Parliament. [[BSP LB.]] It is important that, even if individual units do not support, the vote should be for [[BSP LB lines]] because Bulgaria must support the enlargement of NATO and the European Union. There are two very important positive lines as a consequence. The first is the stabilisation of the Balkans as a region with many problems in recent years, and even in the history of this region. Becoming a member of NATO and the European Union, the Balkans are becoming really much more stable, which concerns Bulgaria and Bulgarian citizens. A second important issue, which is to fellow Members of the Patriotic Front. One of the best things we can do for Bulgarian minorities anywhere in the Western Balkans is to help these countries become a member of NATO and the European Union. Then, for Bulgarian minorities in these countries, we will do a lot of things for these people to live better, to receive better incomes, to have more security, to have better living conditions. The best thing we can do for Bulgarian minorities right now is to support the membership of the European Union and NATO of all these countries. Not without conditions, I agree, of course there must be conditions. Of course, we must support the Bulgarian minorities and on a bilateral basis I agree, too, but this, understand, is the most we can do. That is why I hope that the debate we are having today will become more and more fundamental, to put aside the petty nagging. I understand, despite some personal opinions of individual people, the parliament as a whole should support and unanimously say as a Bulgarian Parliament, such as the Forty- Third National Assembly............................... no matter who is in power, who is in opposition: we want NATO to expand to the Western Balkans, we want the European Union to expand as a next step to the Western Balkans, including as support for Bulgarian minorities. And there is no room for small-time and small-time nagging, this should be a national and responsible position of the Bulgarian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u74	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? I won't. You want procedure, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u75	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! My procedure is in the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman. I do not think that when a Member of the National Assembly is speaking from the stand, another Member of the National Assembly may pass, to echo, to stand before him. Your role was to make a remark to Mr. Mestan because such behaviour and disrespect for a statement by a representative of the National Assembly is unacceptable, and from a man who claims how moral, well-read, how long his memory is and so on. Thank you. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u76	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. I absolutely agree with you, only you had to be the first to make a remark, since you brought the ophthalmological topic into the debate. In addition, you have involved another country that has nothing to do with the declaration under discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u77	You're not responding.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u78	I agree, I have to stop trying to simplify Parliament in time, so I apologize to all the MPs. Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u79	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The ABB Parliamentary Group will support the declaration and we very much welcome the emergence of such a declaration. We will all almost agree that Bulgaria should be some factor in the Balkans and in a regional and not to say mainlandly. Let's admit that in a military political way Bulgaria is no longer a factor in the Balkans, it is not one in economic terms, but in terms of diplomacy and international relations Bulgaria should strive to remain such a factor. Therefore, this declaration not only directly but indirectly to Macedonia and Serbia suggests our criteria for NATO membership. It honors the Committee on Foreign Policy that it has structured these criteria and the editorial supplement also suggests this important criterion to our friends in Macedonia and Serbia who declare readiness for NATO membership, but I personally as a former ambassador there know that they are waiting for what another country will say. This is the policy that we continue to be a factor in the Balkans, and I welcome this declaration. Thank you. [[Applause from ABB, PF and BDZ.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u80	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the people representative Milen Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u81	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to make a statement in favour of the editorial which our MP Julian Angelov proposed, but before that I will be motivated by a more general argument. Often from this tribune and in the public domain, even whole political forces, parties and MPs and groups express the thesis that the integration of former Yugoslavia countries into Euro-Atlantic structures is a panacea for solving problems in the Balkans. This automaticism in thought is deeply wrong. The Balkans are a specific cultural and historical community which cannot be compared and which cannot be applied to the universal political models of Europe, the West or the East. In this sense, understanding that integration of the Western Balkans automatically solves problems in the Balkans and imposes peace, peace, prosperity and solves historical problems is historically disproved by upheavals in the 1990s. As for the proposal made by Mr. Angelov, it is based on a clear understanding, which was also implied by General Angelov. Mihov. Bulgaria is a member of NATO and the European Union in the Balkans and it should behave as a factor, not as an ambassador to NATO and the European Union. We accept a declaration on behalf of the sovereign "Bulgarian people," and we clearly place the Bulgarian national interests. In other words, NATO and the European Union membership is the realization of Bulgarian national interests, not the service of other national interests. Often, this membership is designed by foreign policy view, which we can express in a Philophobic complex. NATO is an instrument for realising our interests and our addition to our declaration today is an expression of our behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. For speech is the word of the people representative Stanislav Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u83	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me begin first with the editorial amendment, which I consider absolutely unnecessary. This is about an understanding of NATO. Let me help my colleagues from the back row of the room on the right. NATO, apart from military, also has a humanitarian dimension. This humanitarian dimension, fellow Members, sets extremely high standards for respect for minorities and national minorities. It is good, however, to look at ourselves, how we, as a parliament, treat this problem. No doubt there are minorities everywhere in the Balkans, many different cultural, religious, national. Undoubtedly, there are problems with relations between countries here and there. But colleagues, there is no way these problems can be solved unless there is a single policy. I sincerely hope that no one in this House offers anything other than the Euro-Atlantic integration of the Western Balkans. Yes, except in NATO and in the European Union, full integration! A decision which was formulated more than one year ago by the President of the DPS Mr. Lutvi Mestan in an open letter to the presidents of liberal parties in Europe. A decision that has become a common decision of the Balkan Liberal Network, and from one month now a common solution and a common position and policy of the Alliance for Liberals and Democrats for Europe. We, colleagues, cannot be unhappy that this thesis is becoming more and more common and is advocated by prominent statesmen in the foreign policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. Once again, I call on you to support the Declaration as it is. It guarantees us the interest and stability of the Western Balkans. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Anastasov. For a replica, the People's Representative Julian Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u85	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Anastasov, I'm surprised you have a double arsin for everything. When it suits you, you defend rights and freedoms when it does not suit you, you do not defend rights and freedoms. We are listening to speeches on how NATO guaranteed human rights, how NATO also had humanitarian functions. Excuse me, but does Turkey, as a member of NATO, respect the rights of Kurds in Turkey, or the vines in Turkey, or the Armenians in Turkey, or the Assyrians in Turkey, or the Christians in Turkey?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u86	What does that have to do with anything?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u87	Because you are saying that NATO also guaranteed human rights, there was a humanitarian mission. I'm sorry. Therefore, there should be this editorial amendment to say Bulgaria that there are Bulgarian minorities there and they must be protected. Your arrogance, insolence and servitude to other countries...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u88	Mr. Angelov, pick your expressions from the stands!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u89	I didn't use an insulting word, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u90	And in service, what is it? If someone told you you were a servant, would you be offended?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u91	All right, service. It is true that one of your two chiefs was here from the Republic of Turkey, so your self-esteem has risen, but in the end if you say that you are a Bulgarian party, be one and support this amendment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u92	Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u93	Dear Mr. Angelov, I invite you to make a few more speeches and lines to really understand what the humanitarian dimension of NATO really means. Perhaps in dialogue with colleagues from other parliamentary groups you will be able to understand. As for the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, it has an absolutely consistent policy for defending human rights and freedoms, universal and unconditional, and not with specific models, as your colleague standing next to you has just mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u94	Thank you. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u95	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The fact that the text is good and balanced is confirmed by broad support by the importers who have signed it. It was very easy at the Commission. The fact that there is a good debate here is proof to me that the Bulgarian Parliament needs more such debates on important foreign policy issues. We underestimate and do not talk enough about foreign policy in the plenary of the National Assembly. I am pleased that this Declaration, initiated by many MPs, by various political groups, shows this fact. Colleagues, let's not be fooled by well-dressed improvisations. It's good to support the text. It is not bad to congratulate Montenegro on the efforts it has made. On purpose, I say the word'said' because it has been heard that it is not good to be written in a declaration of the National Assembly. We talk repeatedly about good neighbourly relations, about regional cooperation. Without regard from us and from other countries to such a process, such good relations and regional cooperation cannot be achieved. I believe that in such an environment as we are now in the world and problematic, there is nothing wrong with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u96	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. Any other speeches? The People's Representative Yanaki Stoilov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u97	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is indeed good that Parliament does not formally accept the proposals for such declarations. I am no longer puzzled, however, I would say, by the simplistic way in which I usually approach such complex topics. It's true, we're here before Christmas. Now is the time for congratulations. Parliament also joins, albeit in the foreign policy area, with its greeting address. However, the question of what Montenegro's membership in the Balkans brings is much more complicated, as I have already noted. Notice which are the two closest countries on the Balkan Peninsula "Montenegro and Serbia," it is even difficult to say that there are two people living there. By virtue of the historical and current political circumstances and the choice of the people living in them, they are once again in two separate countries. It is clear that Serbia has no intention of becoming a NATO member, and Montenegro, in the face of its governance, has pursued this membership. In any case, such a political division will not contribute to the cooperation between these two countries. Whether it will contribute to the stabilisation of the region is an issue that is subject to further analysis. In addition, public opinion in Montenegro is strongly divided on the issue of whether the country should join NATO or not to engage in this military political union. This fact should be known at least to all people who are engaged in foreign policy. Perhaps this deep division in their society may be one of the factors that is currently speeding up the invitation process and the eventual membership of this country in the North Atlantic Pact. I will no longer talk about other military dimensions, about its geographical position, which can also be too useful for any military organisation to be a member of. I do not want to deepen the discussion on this issue, I just note that the coin in this case has two sides and anyone who is trying to tell us to watch only one or is not sincere or does not deal seriously with this topic. However, I am using the case to modify the proposal made by Mr. Angelov and to suggest that even he as an importer accept my amendment, but in any case I would like it to be voted because the text he proposes carries risks. I propose that the text be at the place where it is proposed at the end of the fourth paragraph: the protection of citizens' rights, including of Bulgarian origin. To talk about the rights of communities, whatever they are, is to adopt the concept of collective rights. At least she's too controversial, even I think she's pretty dangerous. Even the greatest supporters of the protection of minorities and relevant international European acts speak of rights of individuals who have certain features. They don't talk about minority rights or community rights. Do not go to this extreme, because then the dispute between your group and that of the DPS will lead in opposite directions, but there is a danger of developing on the same terrain. Therefore, the Bulgarian Parliament, if it is responsible, has reason to support such a proposal, and I call for this to be done, but only in the version I propose. The opposite leads us to a very dangerous path, especially in this great ethnic, religious and other diversity that exists in our region, which is a path to separatistism, to internal closure and opposition to people who are precisely related to such communities. Mr. President, let this proposal be voted on, because regardless of the discussion on the other topic for Montenegro, it has more general significance and must be a lasting orientation in the activities of the Bulgarian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the supplement proposed by the National Representative Julian Angelov, in the fourth paragraph after our national interests, to supplement the protection of the rights of the Bulgarian communities. Please vote. They voted 139 MPs: 39, Against 1, abstention 99. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Tribune by the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov to be added again in the fourth paragraph after our national interests, and to protect the rights of citizens, including from Bulgarian origin. Please vote. Vote 150 MPs: 57 against 7, abstention 87. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u99	Mr. Chairman, I suggest that we reschedule, as I think there is an opportunity to accept the proposal. It would be strange for me in the Bulgarian Parliament that this proposal not to receive support would be a very bad sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. It's a re-vote. They voted 153 MPs: 61, Against 1, abstention 91. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the draft declaration that was presented by the stands by the MP Jemma Grozdanova. Please vote. Vote 155 MPs: 150, against 3, abstention 2. The declaration's been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u101	Moving on to the next point: PROJECTS FOR DECISIONS ON THE REQUESTS OF THE GRAND PROCURER OF BULGARIA TO GIVE RESPONSE FOR RECOGNITIONS AGAINST WALK NIKOLOV, A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE IN THE 43rd PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING. It's a temporary committee report. We're listening, Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will introduce you to a report of the Temporary Commission on the demands of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria to give permissions to excite criminal prosecutions against Volen Nikolov Siderov, MP in the 43rd National Assembly: ♪ I can't believe on requests by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria to give permissions to arouse criminal prosecutions against the MP Volen Nikolov Siderov. No 527-00-9 of 30 November 2015 and n.e.c. No 527-00-10 of 30 November 2015 The interim committee, established by a decision of the National Assembly of 10 December 2015, held a closed session on 16 December 2015, at which it examined the requests of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. With request in. No 527-00-9 of 30 November 2015 the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria proposes to be granted permission to arouse criminal prosecution against Volen Nikolov Siderov for crimes committed by him under art. 325, para. 2 in relation to para. 1 of the Penal Code and under art. 131, para. 2, proposal 4 in relation to art. 130, para. 2 of the Penal Code. According to the D.A., the evidence collected indicates the abuse and abuse of a police officer in the course of and on the occasion of his service. People's representative Volen Nikolov Siderov has committed inappropriate acts, rudely violating public order and expressing obvious disrespect for the public, and the act of his content is marked by extreme audacity and has caused minor bodily harm, expressed in causing pain, without disorder of health, and bodily harm is caused to a police authority in and on the occasion of the performance of his service. With request in. No 527-00-10 of 30 November 2015 the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria proposes to be granted permission to provoke criminal prosecution against Volen Nikolov Siderov, People's Representative in the 43rd National Assembly, in pre-trial proceedings No 39/2012 according to the description of the Specialized Department of the Sofia Public Prosecutor's Office, file No 5955/2011 on the description of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office, for a crime committed by him under art. 325, para. 2 in connection with para. 1 of the Penal Code. According to the Prosecutor General, the people's representative Volen Nikolov Siderov has committed inappropriate acts, rudely violating public order and expressing clear disrespect for society, and the act of his content is characterized by exceptional audacity. National Representative Volen Nikolov Siderov is not present at the meeting of the Temporary Commission. National Representative Ilian Todorov described the Commission meeting as a farce and noted that if from 2013 there is data in the prosecutor's office for crimes committed by Volen Nikolov Siderov, it is not clear why the removal of his immunity for something committed in 2011. He stressed that it is allowed the Prosecutor General to play with the fate of every MP. People's representative Dimitar Glauchev said he could not agree with the opinion that the Commission is a farce, as there is a decision of the National Assembly for its establishment. People's representative Yavor Notev noted that the subject of the Commission is not clear since it will not examine the materials on the requests. He said he would propose that temporary committees should not be set up in the future, but that requests should be submitted and dealt with only in plenary. According to the MP Atanas Zafirov, the point of each committee is to propose to the plenary a decision which, however, should be taken after a debate on the substance of the materials imported. After considering the Attorney General's demands, I'm in. No 527-00-9 and n.e.c. No 527-00-10 of 30 November 2015, and the data attached thereto, the Temporary Commission shall propose to the National Assembly: 1. To give permission to excite prosecution against the People's Representative Volen Nikolov Siderov on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, ov. No 527-00-9 of 30 November 2015 for crimes of general nature under art. 325, para. 2 in relation to para. 1 of the Penal Code and under art. 131, para. 2, B.C. 4 in relation to art. 130, para. 2 of the Penal Code. The opinion was adopted by 13 votes...... 2 votes 2. To give permission to excite prosecution against the People's Representative Volen Nikolov Siderov on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, ov. No 527-00-10 of 30 November 2015 for a criminal offence of general character under art. 325, para. 2 in connection with para. 1 of the Penal Code. The opinion was adopted by 12 votes....... 2 votes against.................................................................................................................. and 1 The Temporary Commission proposes a draft decision on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. No 527-00-9 of 30 November 2015, and Project Decision on the request. No 527-00-10 of 30 November 2015 for granting permission to arouse prosecution against Volen Nikolov Siderov, MP at the 43rd National Assembly. I will give your attention to the solutions. Project! DECISION on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 527-00-9 of 30 November 2015 for granting permission to arouse prosecution against Volen Nikolov Siderov, MP at the 43rd National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 70, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 134, para. 1 and 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Grants permission to provoke prosecution against the MP Volen Nikolov Siderov on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, ov. No 527-00-9 of 30 November 2015 for crimes of general nature under art. 325, para. 2 in relation to para. 1 of the Penal Code and under art. 131, para. 2, proposal 4 in relation to art. 130, para. 2 of the Penal Code. And the second decision: Project! DECISION on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 527-00-10 of 30 November 2015 for granting permission to arouse prosecution against Volen Nikolov Siderov, MP in the 43rd National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 70, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 134, para. 1 and 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Grants permission to provoke prosecution against the MP Volen Nikolov Siderov on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, ov. No 527-00-10 of 30 November 2015 for a criminal offence of general character under art. 325, para. 2 in relation to para. 1 of the Penal Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u103	The debate is open. Are there any MPs willing to take part in it? Here you go, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u104	Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We've reached this item on the agenda, the lights are on. [[crowd cheering, laughing at GERB]] , the cameras are on and this is because in Bulgaria the supreme body under the state device is consumed on specific different occasions for certain needs and purposes. The question arises to me: when one act was committed two years ago, and the other was committed four years ago, if I am not mistaken, and in this bank with facts about crimes, there are certainly thousands of cases, but they are not investigated for the purposes of law enforcement, public order and respect for legality, and when there is a need for certain purposes, facts are drawn from this bank and if this in Bulgaria becomes a principle, then the current crimes are the robbery, corruption, the embezzlement of money from the EU funds, will the agenda come with it?! Should we remove the immunity of those who commit crimes, or do we do it for specific selfish, personal or group interests?! Where is the Party's group today, Ataka, who is leading the MP in question? She's not here collectively today! Yesterday, when it was necessary, it was under count here and voted properly. I am convinced that what is being done is regrettable. The very act of the MP in question and the way in which these facts and events are articulated. I am opposed to the National Assembly being used for such purposes. Two or three weeks ago we were offered a decision to arrest Volen Siderov, to allow it. And when we decided, what happened?! They arrested him after our decision, instead of arresting him the moment he was in high school. And then, when he's released, he'll sue us for shame, he'll sue us and for good reason by all the canons of the European rules that he's been arrested illegally. Don't you feel responsible for being used to give consent to be arrested? And when he was arrested, what?! The court has decided it's wrong! Therefore, I, and I think my colleagues will not participate in this vote to express no attitude towards the act of Siderov [[SHOUTING AND SPEAKING IN P.F.]] , not to the act of Siderov, but to the way in which the facts of this bank are articulated with crimes, honourable patriots. [[Noise and lines from the Patriotic Front, People's Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov replicated from the right place.]] He's already taken out his immunity, he's already started a search warrant. If there are sufficient grounds, let him be punished, but use me for such purposes, I disagree. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u105	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u106	I won't!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u107	Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u108	That's enough!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Will you stop shouting from the hall already?! After putting on the regular agenda another portion of such allegations of criminal activity, why stop already!! Doesn't parliament have to rule on them? I even think that the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria has a decision to vote positively on the request of the Prosecutor General. That's what the group was discussing, but I think we should go a little deeper than just another case. Indeed, for acts that are very simple from a factual point of view and are not difficult to legally qualify, how do we explain the fact that the accusation needs two, and like in the other case, the four-year period to do an analysis, collect the necessary data and submit them to parliament?! We must demand this answer, because we are talking about speed of justice, about the intransigence of punishment. What is its effect if it comes under certain conditions, which also seem to be relevant, so that these facts can be of the attention of the Members of the National Assembly, that is the first question. The other question was Mr. Bojinov. Are these the worst acts of people in Bulgarian politics and government?! I'm not saying that if they exist, you should be excluded and not discussed. But Bulgaria, which is in one of the top places on corruption, on abuse, sometimes in drastic and irritating society sizes, such issues have not been raised for a long time, probably not because they do not exist! When there are even issues of a foreign policy nature that affect the positions of Bulgaria, this somehow stays away from the attention of the Bulgarian society, and this criminal spicy should be in constant turnover! Now we have to ask the next question that is usually put in such cases: what vadis? Who is interested, and why is this done this way? I find two opposing explanations. One is that the attack group must be kept on a short leash so that, where necessary, it can be attached to the majority or to a decision. We can't help but ask ourselves this question after what happened yesterday, which we'll see for sure tomorrow, and we've seen it a lot earlier. The second question, which I am also asking myself, is already contrary: are these actions of a political and legal nature not necessary for the rescue of Ataka itself and its leader, after he loses influence and should be heroised as some martyr of the unreformed Bulgarian judiciary?! I don't have an answer, but you would all disrespect yourself if you didn't put those questions inside. I don't expect you to debate them here, from the stands. For this reason, not as a joke, I proposed to one chairmanship council that we should choose permanent and not temporary committees for any immunity, a permanent committee of the European Parliament, as there are in some parliaments, because it should not be formed in view of one act or another, one person or another, and that this permanent committee examines all requests coming from the Prosecutor General, which should, if possible, be objectively considered and presented to the attention of the Members of the National Assembly. Let me tell you: I am reluctant to speak on this subject because I am aware that we are walking into a trap that has been placed on us, very comfortable at some political, comfortable at many of the media, so that they do not deal with the real problems affecting deep interests and conflicts; but I think that if the Bulgarian Parliament wants to maintain its prestige and level, I must put together with all these cases, which have their reasons, the deeper motives why at some point certain issues concern our attention and require our solution. And finally, to connect it, last night we learned the news that certain customs officers were released on bail. Of course, I'm not going into discussion on any grounds. However, I asked myself the simple question: if someone had a $20,000 guarantee imposed on them. BGN, and his salary, it should be known that his official salary is much lower, how much did he have to steal to be able by his own means to pay his own bail?! Isn't that an irony with regard to the Bulgarian judicial system "20 thousand." lv. A guarantee not to arrest an employee who doesn't get a high salary?! These are the real questions, not the ones you were bothering us with yesterday. I regret that by raising them to the highest constitutional level, they hide these simple questions, which the Bulgarian citizens are increasingly asking themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u110	First line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Stoilov, this is called demagogy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u112	Excuse me?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u113	That's de-ma-go-gi-ya! I'll explain why. You are going out here and resenting the fact that the National Assembly was dealing with a question raised by whom? This procedure in the National Assembly is initiated by whom? At the request of the Attorney General! And when, here in plenary, at second reading, the Law on Constitutional Changes was seen and we convinced you that there should be a text the National Assembly should be able to request from the Attorney General reports on the fight against crime and discuss them in this House, you voted strongly red. Apart from that, in order to preserve the status quo in this institution, which you are now resenting, you have pressed green so that the quotas can remain such that the Attorney General has uncontrollable power! So do not resent the National Assembly, but resent those who initiated this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u114	Second line? Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u115	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Stoilov, I propose that the Commission be not common because the practice of the National Assembly in the last year shows that we consider the immunity of only one person and I suggest you to discuss the issue of the establishment of a permanent committee to examine Mr. Siderov's immunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u116	Third line? A hole, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u117	Madam President! Mr. Ermenkov, it's an original offer. I understand what's behind it. Regarding Mr. Atanasov's line, at least your line shouldn't have been to me, but it was a way to get back to the discussion from yesterday, because I didn't support anything like that, either of these two proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u118	Your group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u119	Yes, I understand, but you address them to me, and I have neither supported them nor intended to support any of the accepted or unacceptable proposals. You want to raise the question here whether the Attorney General acts only on legal grounds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u120	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u121	If that's what you want to do, I don't question putting this question, do it not as a line to me, do it as a statement, because it is serious enough to try through me to ask this question. Put it in the first person. The point we are discussing allows you to analyse both the legal and factual aspects of these acts and the political context in which you want to put them. I do not want to go into this country of the debate that was about yesterday and on which I think we should have a very serious and impartial attitude so that we do not become hostages to one or another preferences, to some prejudices or to what I was talking about...... who is trying to distribute economic and political influence through the judiciary by what means. Since I don't want to do it, I don't want to involve others, whether they have or have no such motives. So please, develop your idea, I don't want to argue with you about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u122	Any other MPs for a statement? Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u123	(non-member) Madam President, honourable Members! I have no doubt how I will vote and vote for the removal of Mr. Siderov's immunity because of what I read in the request of the Attorney General. The Attorney General's request states very clearly that he requests permission to remove immunity due to collected evidence that points to hooliganism and inflicting bodily harm on a police officer. End of story. Any MP who affords to do bodily harm to a police officer during the performance of his duty must be immediately removed with immunity, immediately investigated and prosecuted. At the same time, I wonder why the Prosecutor General is doing it now that this thing has happened in 2013, and the previous case in Batak has happened in 2011. And now do you understand why yesterday the Ataka gave 11 votes in the vote on the Constitution? And you see, if it wasn't for those 11 votes, we wouldn't have passed, and we probably would have gone to new elections, which is actually the only right solution right now. And here I would like to address my colleagues from the BSP or my colleague, Bozhanov, who called for no vote. Not voting is not a position. You will be in the same situation as the colleagues of the Reformation Bloc yesterday, when they asked them about............................................................................................... You have to take positions s right, wrong, good, bad, you have to take positions. And the right position at this point in any arrangement that is late or not late is that one cannot attack a police officer during the performance of his duties because otherwise what do we expect from these police officers? Protect us, do their jobs? How can we do that when we attack them ourselves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u124	First line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u125	Mr. Kadyev, don't you have anything better to do? [[Radio.]] Huh? In the line, I apologize, Madam President, perhaps it would not be quite tactful, I would ask for the word in the manner of conduct, but I will now use the occasion to speak, because yesterday you did something that is unacceptable. People who are in this room who refuse to vote can't say they've been absent. It's a will, and I've expressed it. And you do not look here and wonder in what way to vex us, because half of the proposals that were adopted for amendments to the Constitution have been submitted by you, and you voted against.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u126	Second line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Kadyev, don't bring in any conspiracy. After all, yesterday was the third final vote. So let's not try to turn some into very significant, others into irrelevant. Moreover, if you wanted to be objective, you should have said that one of the reasons for the request, my exact term is lost, but it is still an assault on a journalist during the performance of his duty, that is, an invasion of freedom of speech. Because this officer went and came to the aid of a journalist during his duties. Not here to develop these for 11 votes, which were almost the important ones. No, it wasn't important.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u128	Last time, they were crucial.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u129	No, they weren't. This is the last, third vote. If I had the opportunity to stop the procedure here not to practice, because there are some nice people upstairs with Bulgarian national costumes, they don't have to listen to all these debates, I would.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u130	Third line, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u131	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Kadyev! In essence, what you said is no different from my arguments and from what I said, but I thank you for the way you replicated my speech because it gives me the opportunity to explain and correct myself. It is undoubtedly legal in the statement and request of the Prosecutor General. The action is reprehensible and is sufficient for the waiver of immunity to be able to continue the investigation and the criminal trial. But I mean, there's nothing legal about dragging out four years on this case. Its holding, as appropriate, to be removed at a certain time and used for political purposes. I correct myself and say that since the act is worthy of the waiver of immunity, behold, I create my position before you, I will vote for the waiver, but I support my accusation to this supreme institution, which uses the bank from facts with crimes of particular political needs at some point and conceals other serious crimes for various reasons that we discussed yesterday. Thank you for mentioning and for the opportunity you gave me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u132	A hole, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u133	Dear Mr. Atanasov, indeed some of the texts that we voted in the Constitution were tabled by me. Some of them were adopted and I am proud of these texts as they strengthened the powers of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. Which, however, is a relatively minor part of what we should have done with the Constitution. We had to change the entire justice system. Do either of you seriously think that with yesterday's decision from tomorrow, we will have a better working justice system? On the contrary, we put an umbrella in place not to change for another 10 years, and I therefore voted against it! My position was pó male from yours. I'm not gonna vote! I'm not gonna vote! If only you had stood up and said against, restrained or foretold. [[a line from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov]] Not to sit on the sidelines and pretend you're the reformers! It's not a reformist, it's hiding and fear! Mr. Bayraktarov, I read the Commission report. There is not a word about a journalist there writes about a minor injury to a police officer during the performance of his duties. If you were writing about a journalist, I'd mention it. What is important, honourable Members, is not whether the immunity of Mr. Siderov will be removed or not. It must be taken down on both of you and me. Anyone who allows himself to touch a police officer must be removed from immunity, no appeal, no doubt. The important thing is: is this really how you press the attack and keep them on the short leash that colleague Stoilov is talking about?! Is that the price of those 11 votes? Without them, the Constitution would not pass either at first or at third reading. This is what you are doing in this way humiliating Bulgarian justice, so people do not believe in parliament, with deals with manipulation, with holding a leash, with the use of state organizations and institutions. [[Noise and lines.]] That's the way you do it, and that's the way it shouldn't be done.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u134	Mr. Ermenkov is unstoppable. He wants two minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u135	Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank you for the evaluation you have given me. Yes, as opposition we are unstoppable, we will be unstoppable in the future, and this is our goal to sit there to criticize you and show you the mistakes. That was a little lyrical deviation. Colleagues, what we are currently discussing is really important. I have to tell you that when a Member of the National Assembly is asked for immunity, the problem is not only whether he will be accused, because in all the statements we have heard so far, that his guilt has hardly already been proven, and with what we will take as a decision to abolish immunity, we will allow the prosecution to come up with some kind of criminal order and start a trial. By the way, the practice so far has shown that it is not! In all cases, when such permissions are given, things get plastered and disappear somewhere. There are several questions that arise here - some of them were asked by colleague Bozhinov, by colleague Kadiev. There's something else I want to ask you. The last time we gave permission for the arrest and when he was arrested, the aim was probably to allow the prime minister at 9:00 to call the media and say: "I am against this detention and at 12:00 the court will release him. And then let's talk about the so-called jurisdiction of the judiciary, the influence of the executive over it and its uncontrollability. Therefore, colleagues, I would like to address you with the following. You remember that at the beginning of this National Assembly, the prosecutor approached us with a request to remove the immunity of several MPs who had ongoing cases or doubts about such things that we did. What prevented the prosecutor from including these cases of Mr. Siderov? Something bothered him inside, didn't the system work for him to see the names, or do we really have any concerns about that if the immunity was then requested, now there was nothing to hold the attack on to vote in the way that was convenient for us?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u136	Stop saying the same things!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u137	Very please, when we discuss immunity in such cases, let us first look at the objective state of things...... whether, when and how they happened, and then ask ourselves the question: why now and not yesterday?! And is there anything going to happen tomorrow again, this time from 2010, when it is necessary to vote on something that part of your ruling majority does not agree with?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u138	You'll ask Oresharski, he was then!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u139	Do you have any lines, colleagues? I won't. The debate is closed. Project! DECISION on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 527-00-9 of 30 November 2015 for granting permission to arouse prosecution against Volen Nikolov Siderov, MP at the 40th National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 70, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 134, para. 1 and 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Grants permission to provoke prosecution against the MP Volen Nikolov Siderov on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, ov. No 527-00-9 of 30 November 2015 for crimes of general nature under art. 325, para. 2 in relation to para. 1 of the Penal Code and under art. 131, para. 2, proposal 4 in relation to art. 130, para. 2 of the Penal Code. We vote. Vote 120 MPs: for 119, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 527-00-10 of 30 November 2015 for granting permission to arouse criminal prosecution against Volen Nikolov Siderov, MP at the 40th National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 70, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 134, para. 1 and 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Grants permission to provoke prosecution against the MP Volen Nikolov Siderov on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, ov. No 527-00-10 of 30 November 2015 for a criminal offence of general character under art. 325, para. 2 in relation to para. 1 of the Penal Code. We vote. Voted 118 MPs: 113, no objection, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, let me inform you that in the holidays at 11.30 am, at the Club of the National Representative folklore group from the town of Mezdra will perform a musical program to greet the MPs on the occasion of Christmas and New Year's holidays. The performers are guests of the National Assembly at the invitation of the Vice-President of the Parliament Yavor Haytov. All Members of the National Assembly shall be invited to the Club of the National Representative. [[Applause the MPs welcome the guests on the balcony.]] Declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group Mr. Merdjanov wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I will introduce you to a declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. In connection with the political tensions to which the Bulgarian society has been exposed in recent days, BSP left Bulgaria insists that each parliamentary group clearly and unambiguously state its attitude towards the current Bulgarian government. The situation in which no one already knows what the composition of the ruling majority is and what the responsibilities of each of the political forces in it are is intolerable. The bargain that we are witnessing is unacceptable for a democracy, as the main source of its legitimacy is the people's vote every day being distorted. You can't have individual MPs coming in and out of the majority like it's some neighborhood pub...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u141	Sorry, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u142	It is incomprehensible how in the same parliamentary group one co-chair is ruling and the other in opposition. The government of the country is not a child's game, and the ministerial chair should not be used as bait for this or that unsatisfied deputy party leader. Therefore, the most honest in the current situation would be the Prime Minister to confirm the legitimacy of the current Bulgarian government in order to make it clear to the Bulgarian citizens who is who and what is fighting for. Because it doesn't matter who the next Justice Minister is going to be, it is clear from now on that the policy that will be held in this office will be unsuccessful. We from BSP left Bulgaria declare, and whoever has the courage to follow us that this government failed. It failed to fulfill its pre-election promise, which was a guarantee of stability. After actively participating in the destabilization of the country during the government Oresharski, GERB promised that once it comes back to power, the tremors will cease and the Bulgarians will live peacefully. But has the peace come? Has the time of stability arrived? During the last year of protest, policemen, guards, judges, drivers, doctors, military, mothers, museum workers, librarians rose. They protested trade unions and employers together, separately. They protested people who didn't want to burden their children with more debts. Bulgarians protested against Roma and Roma against Bulgarians. They protested refugees and protested the locals in the settlements where there were refugees. They protested in Sofia against the butaphorical bricks of Largo, in Ruse because of the dirty air, in Stara Zagora against electricity prices, in Plevensko against the demand of railway stations, tobacco and vegetable producers, railway workers and others. This reality was answered by cynicism, by the systematic absence of the ministers of parliamentary control, by speeches about Porsche, by reasoning about brandy and fat, in order to get to the statement of Lilyana Pavlova, which as a true Maria-Antoinette explained that whoever has no money for a wine can simply not travel. Is this the stability we'll lose if the government falls out of power? And since there are claims from other political forces that they oppose the government, we say we will give them the opportunity to fasten their words with action. The BSP left Bulgaria will seek support for a vote of no confidence in the various sectoral policies: in the energy sector, where the debts are already over BGN billion; in the field of internal order and security, because this government has failed for a year and a half to complete neither a centimeter of the protective facility at the Bulgarian-Turkish border, caused police riots, suspended without reaction after a series of shootings in the middle of Sofia, including with a Gabica, left the KAT without registration signs and yet a bunch of disagreements that would take a whole day; in the area of defence, where a minister lied to him that he was offered bribe, humiliated the glorious Bulgarian aviation and put at risk the life and health of our pilots; in terms of foreign policy, whose Russian efforts are increasingly contrary to the interests of Bulgaria, but also to the development of international relations in the global plan; against changes in the health care system that divide the sick and socially important ones; in relation to the external policy, whose interests will be affected by the deficit in terms of the government's financial crisis in terms of the sector. Detailed reasons will be presented to all parliamentary groups and individual MPs, including......................... and by their support we will judge which of them is an oppositionist and who is a hidden lemon. We are also open to your proposals, esteemed new oppositionrs. The topics on which a complete failure can be found are so many that there are for all of us. Unfortunately, however, the failures are paid not by government and opposition, but by Bulgarian citizens. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP left Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u143	Moving on to: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR FISHING AND AQUACULTURES. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention a report on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, No 554-01-159, submitted by Ivan Stefanov Valkov and a group of MPs on 1 October 2015, adopted at the first vote on 10 December 2015. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Commission supports the text of the importer for the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u145	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the importer, supported by the Commission on the name of the Law. Vote 66 MPs: for 66, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u146	Proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Ivan Valkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose art. 17 form as § 1 with the following wording: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), supplied fishing in waters of the Black Sea and the Danube shall be carried out following the issue of a permit for commercial fishing and the acquisition of the right to absorb resources from fish and other aquatic organisms from: 1. natural persons, legal persons and sole traders for ships up to 10 metres in length; 2. Legal persons and sole traders.. for ships 10 meters long and
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u147	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 1 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 68 MPs: for 68, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u148	Proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18b, para. 1 words "al." The following points are inserted Proposal of the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of Members of the National Assembly to be dismissed. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Ivan Valkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose art. 19 form as § 3 with the following wording: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19 (10) Masters of fishing vessels up to 10 metres in length shall be exempt from the obligation to keep a fishing logbook on the basis of an effective sampling plan in accordance with European Union law. (11) The masters of fishing vessels up to 10 metres in length shall record in a declaration an integral part of the plan under para. 10, catch/landing data for the previous month by species and quantities. The declaration shall be transmitted in the IRA up to the 5th of the month following the month to which it relates.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u149	Statements? I won't. We vote paragraphs 2 and 3. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u150	Proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position in § 10. Proposal of the National Representative Ivan Valkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up paragraphs 4 - 9: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 1 the words "single trader or legal person" shall be replaced by "one person" and the words "punishes with" shall be replaced by a fine of 200 to 500 BGN, respectively. § 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58b the words "single trader or legal person" shall be replaced by "one person" and the words "punishes" shall be replaced by a fine of 200 to 500 BGN, respectively. § 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 59 the words "single trader or legal person" shall be replaced by "one person" and the words "punishes" shall be replaced by a fine of 200 to 500 BGN, respectively. § 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 61, para. 1 the words "single trader or legal person" shall be replaced by "one person" and the words "punishes with" shall be replaced by a fine of 200 to 500 BGN, respectively. § 8. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 61a: Art. 61a. A person who violates the requirements of art. 19th para. 11, a fine of 200 to 500 BGN is imposed, respectively a penalty of 400 to 1000 BGN § 9. In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture (prom., SG No. ...) in § 119, para. 1 after the word "fishing', a vessel of 10 metres in length and more shall be added to the word "fishing'.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u151	Statements? I won't. Anblok, we are voting on paragraphs 4 to 9, including their version of the Commission report. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u152	Proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position in § 9. Proposal of the National Representative Ivan Valkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a Transitional provision with § 10: "Transitional provision' § 10. (1) Until the entry into force of the sampling plan under art. 19th para. 10 masters of fishing vessels up to 10 metres in length shall transmit the completed declarations of origin under art. 20 to the 5th of the month following the month to which they refer. (2) A person who does not present a declaration of origin in violation of para. 1, a fine of 200 to 500 BGN is imposed, respectively a penalty of 600 to 1200 BGN. (3) The acts for the identification of infringements shall be drawn up and the criminal decrees shall be issued in accordance with the order of art. 91.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u153	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission proposal for the establishment of a Transitional provision the name "Transitional provision" and § 10 in the version of the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The proposal was adopted unanimously, and with this at second reading and the Bill. Colleagues, until recess, in five minutes we have time to hear the report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR RAIL TRANSPORT. Here you go, Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Railway Transport Act, No 502-01-93, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 November 2015. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 25 November 2015, a Draft amending and supplementing the Railway Transport Act was discussed, No 502-01-93, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 November 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Anton Ginev, Deputy Minister, and Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova, Director of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The bill was presented by Mrs. Stoyanova. The draft law provides for the introduction into our national legislation of the provisions of Directive 2012/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 establishing a Single European Railway Area. The objectives of the Directive are to facilitate the entry of new actors on the rail market and to improve competition with a view to developing more efficient and better working freight and passenger rail services. On 22 July 2015, the European Commission launched infringement proceedings under art. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union against the Republic of Bulgaria for failure to comply with its obligations to transpose that Directive within a period of time. The importers stressed that the directive puts first something that is new to our legislation, the distinction between the provision of transport services and the operation of service facilities. For this purpose, a concept of a service facility and an operator of a service facility shall be introduced in the project, as well as the form of the form of the amount of fees for them. As a general rule, fees shall be determined at the level of direct costs for the provision of the service and shall be used only for the financing of their activities. Secondly, the amendment to the Railway Transport Act provides the requirement of the Directive to increase the independence of the national regulatory authority in the Republic of Bulgaria. With the amendments to art. 116 The regulatory authority shall be required to carry out complaint handling functions without prejudice to the possibility of judicial review. The provisions concerning the handling of complaints, such as the Railway Administration Executive Agency, are empowered to exercise control and carry out checks on its own initiative or on a complaint of applicants who believe they are treated unfairly, discriminatoryly or damaged in any way, and also to deal with complaints against decisions of the infrastructure manager, railway undertaking or service facility operator. The draft next provides for an improvement of the provisions governing the preparation of the content of the network reference document, the content of the contract between the State and the railway infrastructure manager. With the amendments and additions to art. 48a of the Bill also lays down the commercial principles in the management of railway undertakings. Some of the provisions in this direction are regulated at the level of the regulation, and at present they are detailed in the presented bill. Following the presentation of the Bill, their opinions were expressed by MPs, members of the Commission and experts. Mr Svilenski expressed his views on the way the liberalisation of the market would affect the current carrier. He pointed out that the main objective of the Draft Law is to transpose the Single European Railway Area Directive 2012/34/EU and its achievement is divisible by the discussion on the Strategy for the Development of Railways and which has not yet been implemented. Mr. Svilenski suggested that the debates be further developed with the participation of branch organizations in order to resolve the problems in the railway sector in the context of the strategy under discussion and the draft Law. The debate included experts who pointed out their legal and technical remarks. On the basis of the debates held and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 7 votes for the railway, 3 votes against and without abstentions is proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Railway Act, No 502-01-93, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 November 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u155	Colleagues, we're interrupting until 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u156	The sitting continues with the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Railway Transport Act. Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the Parliament, I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Railway Transport Act, No 502-01-93, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 November 2015. At its meeting on 25 November 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs examined the Bill. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications: Mr. Anton Ginev On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova. It pointed out that the draft Law introduces in our national legislation the provisions of Directive 2012/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 establishing a single European railway area and proposes improving provisions relating to ensuring fair competition between railway undertakings, ensuring transparency and full access to the services provided. The powers of the National Regulatory Authority are envisaged to be extended. It is ensured that the Directive requires the regulatory authority to carry out complaint handling functions and that the Railway Administration Executive Agency is empowered to exercise control and carry out checks on its own initiative and on a complaint of applicants who believe that they are unfairly treated, discriminated against or damaged. The project also provides for an improvement of the provisions governing the preparation and content of the network reference document as well as the content of the contract between the State and the railway infrastructure manager. Commercial principles concerning the management of railway undertakings shall also be developed and in relation to the introduction of the electronic ticket as a transport contract in the case of carriage of passengers regulated in art. 7, § 5 of the Single Regulations for the International Railway Transport of Passengers to the Convention on International Railway Transport, the term In relation to the question raised by the National Representative Emil Dimitrov whether the narrowlines enter the single European railway area, Mrs. Stoyanova replied that they are included in it if they are part of the Republican infrastructure and Mr. Nedelkov explained that the narrowline is a railway with different track gauges. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 11 votes for the European Parliament, with no opposition to the European Parliament and 2 votes for abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement to the Railway Transport Act, No 502-01-93, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 November 2015...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u158	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. The debate is open. Are there any MPs willing to participate in it? Claudia Grigorova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u159	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The draft amending and supplementing the Rail Transport Act provides, as you have also learned from the reports, that the provisions of Directive 2012/34/EU of the European Parliament establishing a single European railway area should be implemented in national legislation. The European Commission has launched a infringement procedure under art. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union against the Republic of Bulgaria for failure to implement and transpose the Directive into our legislation within the time limit to be. The bill introduces concepts of a service facility and operator of a service facility, as well as the relevant provisions for access to service facilities and the way they form the charges for their operation. The rule is introduced that fees can only be calculated on the basis of direct cost of providing a service. The bill extends the regulatory authority's powers to ensure efficient management and fair and non-discriminatory use of railway infrastructure. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 5 it is stated that, in the performance of its functions and decision-making, the Railway Administration Executive Agency is independent of all public or private entities, including the infrastructure manager, fees and fines authorities, allocation bodies and applicants, as well as to be functionally independent from any competent authority involved in the award of the public service contract. With the amendments to art. 116 The requirement of the Directive is ensured that the regulatory authority performs the functions of handling complaints by applicants who believe that they have been discriminated against. To ensure equal access to infrastructure, in art. 7, para. 1 points 10 and 11 for the regulatory authority introduce two new powers relating to the extension of the monitoring of the conditions for competition on the rail services market and the control of the infrastructure manager as regards the charges for access to railway infrastructure and service facilities. It is envisaged that the Railway Administration Executive Agency, in agreement with the Minister of Transport, should draw up rules on the exchange of information and cooperation between the regulatory authority and the safety authority, on the one hand, and the licensing authority, on the other, in order to prevent adverse effects on competition or railway safety. The bill also provides for an improvement of the provisions governing the preparation and content of the reference document, which is in fact the annual report on the actual state of the railway infrastructure. It is envisaged that the content of the contract between the State and the manager of the Railway Infrastructure and the preparation of the reference document will be carried out after consultation of all interested parties. The additional provisions of the Bill introduced and provided for in the Directive allow the State to grant State aid for the payment of debts or interest due on debts borne by railway undertakings which are publicly owned or controlled, subject to the applicable State aid rules and which arose until 1 January 2007. The bill provides for an amendment and an addition to the use of an electronic bill of lading in the case of rail transport of goods in an internal communication. The aim is to introduce a missing provision in our legislation to use the bill of lading in electronic form and format when transporting freight by rail, as well as harmonisation with international standards. The consignment is of the type of securities, i.e. the rights thereof exist outside and independently of the paper. Features and special requirements for the application of the electronic bill of lading are regulated which are specific to rail transport technology. In order to carry out transport using an electronic bill of lading, there should be an arrangement between the parties to the transport contract. An obligation is envisaged to keep the initial data of the electronic bill of lading in order to ensure the traceability of changes to that contract. The Law also introduces the electronic ticket as a passenger transport contract. On the basis of everything set out so far and in order to implement the objectives of the directive, which has been mentioned above, and to end the criminal procedure by the European Commission, I admire all of you to support the draft amending and supplementing the Rail Transport Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Grigorova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Rail Transport Act. Vote 79 MPs: 73, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. We are going further into our weekly programme:......................................................................................................... THE FIRST VOICE OF LAWPROECT FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE CIVIL PROCEEDING CODEX. A report from the leading Committee on Legal Affairs. We are listening to you, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u161	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 502-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 April 2015. At its meeting held on 19 November 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 502-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16.04.2015. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Justice Mr. Andrey Yankulov s Deputy Minister, Mrs. Ekaterina Todorova and Mrs. Biljana Beljakova State experts in the Directorate of International Legal Cooperation and European Affairs. The bill was presented by Mr. Andrey Yankulov. The proposed additions aim at introducing the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 650/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions and the adoption and enforcement of authentic acts in the field of succession and on the creation of a European Certificate of Heritage. The draft shall lay down the terms and conditions for the recognition and admission of the execution of a foreign judgment, providing for a first instance court to be the district court at the permanent address of the opposite party or at the place of execution. In order to effectively settle the succession in cases with an international element, the possibility of issuing a European Certificate of Heritage for the benefit of heirs, testaments, executioners of wills and managers of inheritance property shall be introduced, as competent for its issue being the regional court at the permanent address of the deceased. In accordance with the Regulation, institutional control of acts relating to the issuance of the European Certificate of Heritage and the recognition and admission of the execution of the foreign judgment is provided for. The discussion was attended by the MPs Yavor Notev and Danail Kirilov, who expressed their support for the bill. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 502-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 April 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u162	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. The debate is open. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I put to the first vote a Bill supplementing the Civil Procedure Code with the importing Council of Ministers. Please vote. Vote 82 MPs: 80, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Coming up next: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CULTURE RESEARCH. A report from the Committee on Culture and Media to be presented to us by Mrs. Sokolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u163	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cultural Heritage Act, No 502-01-60, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2015. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 19 November 2015, the Law amending and supplementing the Cultural Heritage Act was reviewed. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Culture: Assoc. Dr. Bonnie Petrunova Deputy Minister; Milda Paunova Director of the Legal Service and Public Procurement Directorate. ; Lyudmila Harizanova, Legal Consult; Bozhidar Dimitrov, Director of the National Museum of History, Dr. Todor Chobanov, Deputy Mayor of Sofia Municipality; Angel Papalezov, Chief Inspector and Head of the Sector of Cultural and Historic Values at the General Directorate of the Ministry of Interior; Tencho Popov from the Union of Collectors in Bulgaria. The bill on behalf of the importer was presented by Mrs. Bonnie Petrunova. The aim of the bill is to introduce in the Bulgarian legislation the provisions of Directive 2014/61/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the return of cultural objects which have been illegally exported from the territory of a Member State and amending Regulation (EU) No 1024/2012. The bill provides for the procedure for the return of cultural monuments to cover all movable cultural values of national wealth, as well as those which are part of public or other collections of property of registered religions. It removes the requirement that cultural values comply with certain thresholds relating to their aging and/or monetary value in order to be returned. The time limits for the conduct of the proceedings shall be changed. The Ministry of Culture explicitly drew attention to the omission in the amendment proposed by the Law in § 8 of art. 132, para. 3. The National Assembly has called on the Members of the National Assembly after the adoption of the Bill of First Voting to carry out a change to introduce a requirement that no return proceedings may be initiated in any case if more than 30 years have passed since the illegal export of the object from the territory of the requesting Member State. The Law provides for a new classification for group real cultural values "serial sites of the property, consisting of two or more sites, regardless of their location and united by clear cultural, time, social and/or functional links. The draft proposes that persons who hold a Master's degree in Archaeology or Archaeology, after the Bachelor's degree in Archaeology, should be entitled to apply for permission to carry out field archaeological research. In this context, a register should be established with the Ministry of Culture, listing persons eligible for field archaeological research. During the discussion, support was expressed for the Ministry of Culture's proposal, as well as willingness to submit the necessary amendment to remove the acknowledgment that will protect the national cultural heritage. Debate was also the issue of the need for possible introduction and formulation of the concept of wealth and the scope and difficulties in defining it. Following the debates held, the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously proposed to the National Assembly with 14 votes to adopt a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Cultural Heritage Act, No 502-01-60, submitted by the Council of Ministers on July 20, 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Sokolova. We will now hear a report from the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, which will be provided to us by Mrs. Hubenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u165	"COMMODITY" on a bill amending and supplementing the Cultural Heritage Act, No 502-01-60, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2015. At its extraordinary meeting on 30 September 2015, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cultural Heritage Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. The following representatives took part in the meeting of the Commission: the Ministry of Culture Assoc. Dr. Bonnie Petrunova, Deputy Minister of Culture, as well as Ms. Miglena Katsarova, Chief Legal Consult at the Department of Legal Services and Public Procurement. This bill aims to introduce into our national legislation the provisions of Directive 2014/61/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the return of cultural objects which have been illegally exported from the territory of a Member State and amending Regulation (EU) No 1024/2012, hereinafter referred to as "Directive 2014/60'. The proposed amendments to the Bill provide for the procedure for the return of cultural values to cover all movable cultural values of national wealth, as well as those that are part of the public or other collections of property of registered religions. In this respect, the requirement to ensure that cultural values comply with certain thresholds relating to their aging and/or monetary value in order to be returned should be removed. In order to facilitate and deepen administrative cooperation between EU Member States, central authorities should cooperate and exchange information on illegally exported cultural values through the Internal Market Information System (IHR) provided for in Regulation No 1024/2012 on administrative cooperation through the Internal Market Information System and repealing Commission Decision 2008/49/EC. The bill provides for a further amendment in Art. 150 of the Cultural Heritage Act (CCN) related to the minimum educational and qualification degree for persons applying for permission for field archaeology research. It is proposed that persons with an acquired master's degree in archaeology or master's degree in archaeology after a Bachelor's Archaeology should be allowed to apply for such permission. Last but not least, changes are proposed concerning the procedures for declaring and granting the status of real cultural values. They relate to the possibility that the declarations, refusal to declare, grant and changes to the status may be issued by or authorised by the Minister of Culture. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds unanimously proposed by 13 votes to the National Assembly to adopt, on the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Cultural Heritage Act, No 502-01-60, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Hubenova. Colleagues, we remain to hear the report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mrs. Anna Alexandrova will introduce us to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u167	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cultural Heritage Act, No 502-01-60, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2015. At its meeting on 2 September 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cultural Heritage Act, No 502-01-60, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2015. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Culture Mrs. Boni Petrunova Deputy Minister, Mrs. Miglena Katsarova General Legal Consult at the Department of Legal Services and Public Procurement and Mrs. Vesela Shtereva - Parliamentary Secretary. The bill submitted by the Council of Ministers was presented by Deputy Minister Petrunova. The proposed amendments and additions aim at introducing the requirements of Directive 2014/61/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the return of cultural objects illegally removed from the territory of a Member State and amending Regulation (EU) No 1024/2012. Within the scope of administrative and judicial procedures for returning cultural values to the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria are all cultural values classified or defined in accordance with national law or administrative procedures such as national wealth with artistic, historical or archaeological value. The procedure for returning cultural values covers all movable cultural values national wealth, as well as cultural values included in collections of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church or other registered religions, collections of museums, libraries and an archive fund. Changes related to the extension of time limits are envisaged in the conduct of the proceedings concerned. The introduction of a new classification for group real cultural values is proposed. The proposed classification allows for the development of a plan for the conservation and management of a group of real cultural values with the status of serial objects. The bill aims to raise requirements for holding a minimum degree of education for persons applying for permission for field archaeological research. Members of the National Assembly Emil Dimitrov and Danail Kirilov took part in the discussion. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 9 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u168	Colleagues, the debate is open. Are there any MPs who wish to express their position on this bill? I won't. We're closing the debate. I put to the first vote the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Cultural Heritage Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Vote 97 MPs: 92, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Our latest bill from the weekly program is: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR REGIOAL DEVELOPMENT. The first bill at the time is by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, and the second one is by the Council of Ministers. There has been a report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. The Quaestors, please invite Mr. Honest Vesselinoff as rapporteur. I am aware that their group is currently meeting with Ms. Katya Zaharieva, but our work here is also good. Mr. Zelenogorski, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u169	Madam President, honourable Members! I would ask that we allow the hall: Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Ivan Asparuhov and Mrs. Irena Zaharieva, who is the head of the strategic planning of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u170	I shall vote on the admission procedure in this Chamber. 90 MPs voted: 87, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u171	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Regional Development, No 554-01-57, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, and a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Regional Development, No 502-01-72, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 1 October 2015, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed bills for amendment and supplement of the Law on Regional Development submitted by Mr. Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs and the other Draft Law submitted by the Council of Ministers. Mr. Ivan Asparuhov, Deputy Minister of Regional Development, Mrs. Irina Zaharieva, Director-General of the Directorate-General Strategic Planning of Regional Development and Administrative Territorial Structure in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and Mrs. Valeri Naydenov, Deputy Director-General in the same Directorate took part in the Commission meeting. On behalf of the importers, the bill submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs was presented by the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov. The draft draft lays down new provisions relating to the planning of regional development funds, in line with the specific needs and specificities of individual regions in the medium and long term. An obligation is established for the Ministry of Regional Development to plan the funds for three, seven and fourteen years, to prepare and publish an index of investment and an index of human development to account for the amount spent for each of the regions at the different levels assigned to the population. On the bill were received opinions from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Regional Development and from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. A number of comments have been made in the opinions of the ministries on the proposed project, which disagree in principle with the proposed period of planning the funds and the additional obligations of the MRDP. The opinion of NSORB expresses the principle support of the intentions to overcome the disproportions in the development of the individual regions of the country, while there is doubt that the proposed changes create a real and effective mechanism and are able to lead to their overcoming. The bill, submitted by the Council of Ministers, was presented by Mr. Ivan Asparuhov, Deputy Minister of Regional Development. The aim of the Bill is to achieve a higher applicability, effectiveness and effectiveness of legal provisions while ensuring compliance and interaction with the EU legislative framework for the period 2014 - 2020 the proposals for changes relate to the improvement, upgrade and harmonisation of the existing Law on Regional Development in modern conditions, without imposing significant changes in the philosophy and mechanisms for its implementation. The bill proposes a comprehensive change of the criteria and indicators for determining the areas of targeted state support, using as a basis the Law on the Administrative and territorial structure of the Republic of Bulgaria categorization of municipalities in Bulgaria. The proposed changes allow for support for specific target areas and for adverse geographical characteristics, such as mountain, semi-mountain and border areas. The regional development strategies are intended to reflect measures and means of implementing activities in the areas of targeted state support. The proposed changes cancel the requirement for the development of the concept of spatial development of the municipality in the light of the role and scope of the general planning plan of the municipality (OPP) and because of the inability of the concept to facilitate the development of ODP by providing information on the preparation of technical specification. A significant change is the requirement for the development and implementation of the National Concept of Space Development and of regional schemes for a period of 15 years and for the elements of the technical infrastructure............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The programming of regional development is also introduced as a principle of state policy for regional development without regulation of the relevant documents and programmes, as the programming process is governed by European Union legislation through regulations common to Member States, as well as by regulation of national legislation. In terms of strategic planning for regional development, changes are proposed to complement the system of documents. The consistency between strategic documents and the development of investment programmes, including co-financed by EU funds, as well as the identification of projects contributing to the achievement of national objectives and priorities for regional and local development, is more clearly defined. Mandatory requirements for public consultations have been introduced in developing new, update and evaluation of the implementation of existing national and regional spatial development documents and the process and results of the consultations are reflected in a specific section of the document. This change strengthens the role of partners and civil organisations in determining the long-term development policy of the country's regions. The functions of regional development management bodies are refined and expanded. The role of regional governors in the implementation of sectoral strategic documents is strengthened and they will take over their coordination in the area. This function is also supported by changes in the composition of the district development council, including the heads of the territorial units of the central executive in the area. The provisions of the existing Regional Development Act on the establishment of a single information system for regional development management and spatial planning are proposed to be repealed. This system is not built and not functioning. The aim of its regulatory regulation was to collect regular information for the purpose of monitoring and evaluation of strategic documents for regional and local development. Such information shall be provided by the functional information system from which information is received on projects financed by the Structural Funds and the EU Cohesion Fund. It is proposed to create a new chapter "Observation of spatial development" that regulates the activities of monitoring the National Concept of spatial development and regional spatial development schemes. Some new current definitions have also been added, which give greater clarity on the scope of the law. The Commission was given an opinion by the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, expressing principled support for the Bill. At the same time, some specific remarks and proposals on separate provisions of the bill were made in the opinion of the association. In the course of the discussion, the MPs who spoke supported the bill. Based on the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government: - with 3 votes in favour, without the opposition and 10 votes in abstention, propose to the National Assembly that the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Regional Development submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs should not be adopted in the first vote; - with 10 votes in favour, without the opposition and 3 votes abstention, proposes to the National Assembly a bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Regional Development, No 502-01-72, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u172	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. We will now also hear a report from the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u173	Madam President! "COMMODITY" on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Regional Development Act No 502-01-72, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 August 2015. At its meeting held on 4 November 2015, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Regional Development Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. The following representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works took part in the meeting of the Commission: Mrs. Irina Zaharieva, Director General of the Directorate General, Strategic Planning of Regional Development and Administrative-TERRITORY Device and Mrs. Teodora Valkova, Head of Department in the same Directorate. I. This Bill aims to improve and harmonise the Law on Regional Development without imposing significant changes in the philosophy and mechanisms for its implementation, while ensuring compliance and interaction with the EU legislative framework in the period 2014-2020. The importers of the Project take into account that the existing provisions of the Law relating to targeted support for certain areas have practically not been implemented during the period after its adoption in 2008. In this regard, the Bill provides for a comprehensive change of the criteria for determining the areas for targeted State support based on the categorisation of municipalities introduced by the Law on the Administrative-terrorical Device of the Republic of Bulgaria (ZATURB). This categorisation shall be carried out on the basis of indicators approved by the Council of Ministers and shall be updated following appropriate monitoring. II. The draft Law also provides for the annulment of the requirement for the development of a concept of spatial development of a municipality given the role and scope of the general planning of the municipality (OPP). The aim is to ensure a clear legal distinction between the spatial documents directly related to the investment process and the documents of a strategic nature for planning the spatial development of the territory. There is also a requirement for the development and implementation of the National Concept of Space Development and of regional schemes for a period of 15 years, and regarding the elements of the technical infrastructure for a period of 30 years. III. With regard to the strategic planning of regional development, the bill proposes changes to define more clearly the consistency between strategic documents and the development of investment programmes, including co-financed by EU funds. Additional parts will be included in the content of the documents related to the contribution of the Bulgarian regions to EU urban development policy, adaptation of the Bulgarian regions to climate change, achievement of some common strategic objectives for the EU set out in the Europe 2020 strategy, the EU 2020 strategy agenda and the EU urban development agenda. Integrated urban recovery and development plans are also defined as part of the system of strategic documents for regional and local development. IV. Last but not least, the aim of the proposed amendments to the Law is to contribute to increasing the efficiency and efficiency of regional development policy, to better interaction and coordination between regional development management bodies, as well as to provide the necessary financial resources for the process of monitoring and evaluation of strategic documents. In view of the above and as a result of the vote taken, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 10 votes for the European Parliament and 4 votes abstentioned by the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Regional Development, No 502-01-72, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 August 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u174	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. On behalf of the importers, the first bill will be presented by Mr. Honest Veselinov. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u175	Madam President, honourable Members! The main reason for the introduction of our Bill is primarily the conscious need for a change in the way regional policies are planned. Bulgaria is in a demographic disaster. It is a fact that no one denies. Moreover, here in this House, we have obliged the responsible Deputy Prime Minister to submit a report and we are looking forward to the report. I was at the presentation of his project at the Council of Ministers. Undoubtedly one of the main reasons for the negative demographic trends in Bulgaria is the dramatic increase in the difference in the development of the regions. This is evident from numerous examples and is one of the locomotives for the demographic catastrophe in Bulgaria. Unfortunately, Bulgarian policy, state policy and especially the spending of budget funds, investing budget funds in the regions is one of the prerequisites for creating this regional inequality. In this direction, European funds are converted from an instrument that must erase differences into an instrument that deepens them. Until recently, nearly three times was the difference in the absorption of European funds between northern and southern Bulgaria, with only Sofia-city acquired a resource comparable to that of almost all of Northern Bulgaria. Unfortunately, the situation is similar for the next planning period. I always give as an example Operational Programme "Transport" which, from more than 2 billion euros budget for the moment, is not guaranteed any serious infrastructure project in roads or in railway infrastructure in Northern Bulgaria! The gross domestic product produced in the Southwestern planning area with centre Sofia is approaching half of that for the whole country. The income situation is the same. Assuming Sofia is a unit of income, for example in 2006 in Vidin received 60% of the Sofia wages, while now this percentage has dropped to 48%. It is the same for large cities: Ruse has dropped from 62% to 59%, in Plovdiv from 63% to 61% of the Sofia salary and so on. These figures indicate a relentless income gap outside the capital. Such an indicator is the assessment of the quality of life that makes a non-governmental organisation. It is evident that out of the seven cities in the assessment of quality of life there is none from Northern Bulgaria. When attracting investment, the situation is the same.. only 2.5% were attracted to the Northwestern region and 62% - in Sofia. As a percentage of investment per capita, for example Silistra is 819 times less than Sofia! However, there are investment projects to attract foreign investors in Sofia and in Silistra, as well as in most of the country, there is none. As a final result, Northern Bulgaria lost a population nearly three times faster than South, even more than three times. Of course, the division is not only north-south, although there is the most visible. West also border, low and semi-mountain corners of Bulgaria. Indicators, as is the mortality rate, show that in Vidin the mortality rate is almost twice as high as in Sofia. Forecasts for population development, which publishes the National Statistical Institute itself, are also extremely worrying. The only city expected to increase its population by 2070 is Sofia by about 18%, while Kyustendil, for example, would lose 71% of its population, from the Kyustendil region, of 124 thousand people are expected to become 35 thousand. Similar is the situation in Smolyansko from 110 thousand to 19 thousand, even worse - 83% of the population is lost, and so on. I say all this as a prelude to explain the need to change the approach to planning and spending public funds. Our bill is an experience in this particular direction. First of all, we want to introduce an index that shows by planning areas what public investment is being made. The second thing we want is to introduce as a principle in regional development the spending of resources in a way that will erase inequalities between regions and which, in the medium and long term, ensure equality between regions in resource absorption. If, over the last 15 or 20 years, an indicative part of Southern Bulgaria has benefited from investments, investment should be directed to Northern Bulgaria in the next medium term. I think this will benefit not only some justice, although regional justice is extremely important and the feeling that there are no forgotten parts of the territory of the country is extremely important, but most importantly this will ensure the sustainability of the population in these areas, will enable the economic development of the regions and will ultimately help reduce the negative trends that are so characteristic of our country. I have come to know the views of the ministries and of the National Association of Municipalities. The National Association of Municipalities generally supports the Bill and makes certain proposals that can improve it and which we perceive. At second reading, if the Bill wins your support, we will see them as an addition to our proposal. Regarding the opinion of the Ministry of Regional Development, which believes that there is no necessary capacity and it is not his job to deal with some of the activities that we are entrusting to it, I believe that we should load up an authority and even if it is necessary to allocate responsibilities, say, between the National Statistical Institute in terms of publishing the indices and respectively between the MRB in terms of planning funds, in any case this is something that can arise between first and second readings. I do not agree with the fact that public investment cannot be planned with a long-term horizon of 14 years. They may not be planned on projects, but they can certainly be planned as opportunities and as a trend in certain areas, so that the regions and municipalities, respectively, have some concept of their future financial security and prepare their projects for the future. I hope you will support this Bill at first reading, and between first and second, of course, we remain open to changes that will improve it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u176	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. The debate is open. Are there any MPs willing to participate in it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u177	Madam President, honourable Members! The Regional Development Act governs the planning, programming, management, resource security, monitoring, control and evaluation of the implementation of strategies and plans and programmes for the implementation of state policy in regional development. On the occasion of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Regional Development submitted by a group of MPs, we generally support the objective set out in the amendments to implement an appropriate distribution of public investment in the areas. This measure is necessary in view of the drastic dissensions by regions most apparent from which it is north-south. There are sufficient examples of regional differences both in terms of public investment and in terms of non-financial investments and in terms of allocation of EU funds and, last but not least, in terms of population income. I believe that other indicators such as size of the territory, number of settlements, length of road infrastructure, and other appropriate indicators should be taken into account by the National Association. On the occasion of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Regional Development of the Council of Ministers, I also express my principled support. The draft proposed by the Council of Ministers ensures better interaction, the applicability of European Union legislation, the scope of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020. The changes are based on conclusions and recommendations from the assessment of the impact of the existing legislation in the field of regional development and the proposals for new regulations of stakeholders and partners, including within the framework of regional development councils in the second level regions, as well as on the basis of the accumulated administrative experience in the process of the legislation implemented. As an important change, I would consider dropping the requirement to develop a concept of spatial development of municipalities due to the role and scope of the General Planning Plan of the municipalities themselves. The proposed changes in the strategic planning of regional development complement the system of documents. As a positive moment, I would define the more important role of partners and civil organisations in relation to the development policy of the districts in the country by introducing mandatory requirements for conducting public consultations in the development of new and updated existing national and regional partnership documents. The proposal to repeal the provisions of the existing Regional Development Act providing for the establishment of a Single Information System for Regional Development Management and Space Planning is appropriate. The system should have collected information currently provided by an information system that provides information on projects and funding from EU funds. In view of the above points of the bills, I believe that these should be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u178	Any lines to Mr. Ahmedov? I won't. Any other MPs?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u179	I won't, I won't!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u180	So categorically from the hall there isn't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Regional Development, No 554-01-57, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The leading regional policy committee proposes that it should not be adopted in the first vote. Please vote. [[Relations from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov.]] I don't understand you, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u181	What do we vote on the Bill at first reading, or the Commission's proposal not to be adopted?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u182	We are voting on the bill at first reading and I am sharing the Commission's proposal as a result of the vote. I specifically refer to the proposal. I can also read the votes on how the vote went.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u183	That won't be necessary. Got it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-17.u184	They voted 84 MPs: 12, against 1, abstention 71. The offer is not accepted. I put to a vote at first reading Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Regional Development, No 502-01-72, tabled by the Council of Ministers. Please vote. Vote 91 MPs: 75, against 3, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, before I introduce you to parliamentary control for tomorrow, I remind you that the plenary session will begin tomorrow at 9.00 with a draft decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. The rest of our legislative weekly programme has been implemented. Communications of parliamentary control on 18 December 2015, Friday, at 11:00: First will answer the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev to a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov. Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova will answer seven questions from MPs Filip Popov; Manol Genov; Stanislav Stanilov; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; Krasimir Yankov; Svetoslav Belemezov; and Nastimir Ananiev. The Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer ten questions from the MPs Atanas Stoyanov; Manol Genov; Emil Raynov; Georgi Turnovaliski; Zhelyo Boychev; Emil Raynov, Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Turnovalyski; Dzhevdet Chakarov, two questions; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; and Dimitar Shishkov; and one question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer sixteen questions from the MPs Dora Jankova, two questions; Manol Genov, two questions; Krasimir Yankov, two questions; Borislav Iglev; Mihail Mikov and Georgi Svilenski; Mariana Boyadjieva, two questions; Georgi Bojinov; Mihail Mikov; Dzhevdet Chakarov; Mihail Mikov and Filip Popov; Vasil Antonov; and Yavor Haytov; and one question from the People's Representative Manol Genov. Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov will answer five questions from the MPs Valeri Zablyanov and Dimitar Dubov two questions; Mihail Mikov; Georg Georgiev; and Rumen Yonchev. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer two questions from the MPs Angel Naydenov; and Krasimir Karakachanov. The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev will answer three questions from the MPs Boyka Marinska; Dimitar Tanev; and Manol Genov. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva will answer three questions from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov. Two questions; and Manol Genov. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer three questions from the MPs Cornelia Ninova; and Georgi Kadiev. Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer three questions from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov; Petar Kadiev; and Stanislav Stanilov. The Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski will answer two questions from the MPs Svetoslav Belemezov; and Zhelyo Boychev. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Kircho Karagyov; - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to four questions from the MPs Nastimir Ananiev, Mariana Boyadjieva, Manol Genov, and Velizar Enchev and two questions with written answer from the MPs Kalina Balabanova, and Ahmed Ahmedov; - the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva to two questions from the MPs Velizar Enchev, and Antony Trenchev; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to two questions from the MPs Yavor Haytov; and Antony Trenchev, and to a question written by the MP Ivan Valentinov Ivanov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the responses to: - seven questions and two questions from the MP Slavi Binev to the Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski; to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski; to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov; and to the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova. Due to illness the Minister of Culture Vecdi Rashidov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov will not participate. Tomorrow, a regular meeting with a starting time of 9:00 p.m. I'm shutting down today's plenary day.
