ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. According to the programme adopted this week, today we begin with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR MEDICAL ARTICLES. Importer is the Council of Ministers. He was accepted in the first vote on 18 March 2015. Mrs Daritkova, Chairman of the Committee on Health, will present the Commission's report for a second vote. We're listening, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention the Second Voting Report on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medical Devices, No 502-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 January 2015, adopted on the first vote on 18 March 2015. The Law on Medical Products is amended and supplemented by the Law on Medical Products. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u3	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of the Law. Vote 128 MPs: 125, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u4	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u5	Statements? I won't. Anblok, we vote on paragraphs one to five, supported by the Commission, by importer. They voted 121 MPs: 119, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u6	According to § 6 there is a proposal from the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 6 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u7	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put the Commission's proposal to the vote. They voted 121 MPs: 112 against 6, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u8	Under § 7, a proposal was received by the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... Article 61 is amended as Art. 61. (1) Authorisation to assess the conformity of medical devices, including the assessment of clinical data, shall be granted to a natural or legal person registered under the Commercial Law by the Executive Director of the IAL. (2) The Executive Agency of the Medicines shall be a designating authority within the meaning of art. 1 point (e) of Implementing Regulation (EU) No 920/2013. (3) The person applying for an authorisation to assess the conformity of medical devices shall submit to the EAL on an electronic medium an application, as set out in Annex II to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 920/2013, specifying the items and procedures for which he applies, the areas of competence and the divisions of those spheres by using the codes of the European Commission information system NANDO (Notified and designated bodies of the New Approach) and the annexes to the application referred to in Annex II to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 920/2013. (4) The applicant shall pay a fee for the issue of an authorisation for the assessment of conformity of medical devices in the amount set out in the tariff under art. 7, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u9	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 6 in the version of the Commission report. They voted 129 MPs: for 123, against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u10	According to § 8 there is a proposal from the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 7: .................................................... Article 62 is amended as follows: Art. 62. (1) The assessment of the person applying for authorisation to assess the conformity of medical devices shall be carried out by an expert committee designated by an order of the Executive Director of the IAL. External experts who have knowledge and practical experience in the field of relevant medical devices may be drawn to the committee if necessary. (2) Where the person applying for an authorisation for conformity assessment of medical devices has indicated in the application under art. 61, para. 3 medical devices under art. 2, para. 1, t. 1, EAL performs the assessment according to the order of art. 62a. (3) Where the person applying for an authorisation for conformity assessment of medical devices has indicated in the application under art. 61, para. 3 medical devices under art. 2, para. 1, t. 2 or 3, EAL shall carry out the assessment in accordance with Article 3. 62a of this Law and of Art. 3 of Implementing Regulation (EU) No 920/2013. (4) The Executive Medicines Agency shall apply the criteria for the assessment of the person under para. 2 or 3 in accordance with Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 920/2013.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u11	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 7 on the Commission report. Vote 128 MPs: 118, against 3, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u12	According to § 9 the proposal by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 62a: Art. 62a. (1) The Panel of Experts under art. 62, para. 1 and, where applicable, a committee of representatives of designating authorities of two other Member States and a representative of the European Commission shall review the documentation submitted. (2) Where incompleteness and discrepancies with the requirements of the documentation are identified, the Executive Director of the EAL shall inform the applicant in writing and shall set a two-month period for their removal. Until the deficiencies and discrepancies are resolved, the period referred to in art. 63, para. One or two stops running. (3) Where the applicant does not remove the deficiencies and discrepancies within the period under para. 2, the procedure is terminated. (4) Within 75 days of the date of submission of valid documents under art. 61, para. 3 The Commission shall carry out, respectively, the committees under para. 1 carry out, on-the-spot verification of the competence of the applicant and the possibility to comply with the requested conformity assessment procedures, including on-the-spot verification of the sub-contractor. In order to carry out an on-the-spot check, a fee shall be paid at the amount set out in the tariff under art. 7, para. 1. (5) Where the on-the-spot verification reveals discrepancies between the submitted documentation and the conformity assessment requirements set out in the regulations under art. 18, the Executive Director of the EAL shall notify the applicant in writing and set a two-month period for their removal. Until the non-compliance has been resolved, the period referred to in art. 63, para. One or two stops running. (6) Where the applicant does not remedy the identified discrepancies in the definitions under para. For a period of 5 years, the Executive Director of the IAL with a reasoned order refuses to grant permission. (7) Within 45 days of the on-the-spot verification, the committee shall draw up a final evaluation report, which shall be announced in the NANDO Information System database.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u13	Are there any speeches, colleagues? No. I shall put to the vote § 8 in its version on the Commission report. They voted 133 MPs: 125, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u14	According to § 10 the proposal from the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... Article 63 is amended as Art. 63. (1) In the cases referred to in art. 62, para. 2 within 4 months of submission of the documentation under art. 61, para. 3 The Executive Director of the EAL on the basis of the report under art. 62a, para. 7 informs the applicant that it has been approved for notification or issued a reasoned refusal order. (2) In the cases referred to in art. 62, para. 3 within 6 months of submission of the documentation under art. 61, para. 3 The Executive Director of the EAL on the basis of the report under art. 62a, para. 7 informs the applicant that it has been approved for notification or issued a reasoned refusal order. (3) Within three days of notification under para. 1 or 2 EAL announces approved persons through the NANDO system. (4) The identification number of the conformity assessment body approved and notified to the European Commission, hereinafter referred to as the notified body, shall be determined by the European Commission. (5) The Executive Director of the EAL shall issue to the notified body under para. 4 conformity assessment authorisation. (6) The authorisation under para. 5 shall have a maximum period of validity of five years. The renewal of the authorisation shall be carried out in accordance with art. 62, para. 2 or 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u15	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 9 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 114 MPs: for 113, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u16	According to § 11 the proposal from the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... Article 64 is amended as follows: Art. 64. (1) Where the person applying for a conformity assessment authorisation provides an accreditation certificate according to the requirements set out in the relevant ordinance under art. 18 shall be deemed to have a functioning quality system, meet the criteria for independence, impartiality and confidentiality and have the necessary competence. (2) In the cases under para. 1 the person does not provide any other documentation certifying compliance with the criteria under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u17	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 10 in the version of the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 106, against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u18	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u19	We vote. They voted 114 MPs: 108, against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u20	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 66 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In the text before t. 1 the word "supplied' is deleted; 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the words "the authority that granted the authorisation" shall be replaced by "the designated authority." 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 words under art. 64, para. 2 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u21	Statements? I won't. We vote § 12. Vote 107 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u22	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u23	We vote. Vote 113 MPs: 109, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u24	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 67a: Art. 67a. (1) Extension of the scope of the authorisation and renewal of the authorisation to extend the scope of the conformity assessment authorisation shall be carried out in accordance with art. 62, para. Two or three. (2) The Executive Director of the EAL with an order shall issue an supplement to the authorisation under art. 63, para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u25	There are no speeches. We vote § 14. They voted 116 MPs: 110, against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u26	According to § 16 the proposal from the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 68 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: The notified body shall inform the EAL of: (b) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." changes in legal status and organisational structure; (c) a new item shall be created. 2: "2." changes in the scope of activities outside the cases referred to in art. 67a, para. 1 and changes in conformity assessment procedures; (d) the so-called t. 2 and 3 become ct, respectively. 3 and 4; (e) Previously on 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4. 5 and in it 2. In para. 2 the words the Chairman of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision shall be replaced by the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision. 3. In para. 3 and 4 words to the President of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision shall be replaced by an evaluation report to the Executive Director of the IAL. 4. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: On the basis of the report under para. 3, and by para 3 respectively. 4, the Executive Director of the IAL with an order shall issue an supplement to the authorisation under Article 4. 63, para. 5. 5. In para. 7 words The Chairman of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision shall be replaced by the Managing Director of the IAL. 6. The creation of para. 8. In the cases referred to in art. 62, para. 2 evaluation of the documentation under para. 2 and on-site inspection under para. 4 shall be carried out, where applicable, by the representatives of the other two Member States and by the representative of the European Commission who have participated in the evaluation procedure under art. 62a
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u27	Statements? I won't. We vote on the edited text by the Commission, which by importer was 16, and in the Commission's report acquires numbering § 15. Vote 105 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 2. Paragraph 15 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u28	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18, which shall become § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20 which shall become § 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21, which shall become § 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u29	Statements? I won't. We vote on the texts of paragraphs 17 to 21 by importer, which are supported by the Commission and become respectively paragraphs 16 to 20 inclusive. Please vote. Vote 104 MPs: for 102, against 1, abstention 1. The import paragraphs which, pursuant to the Commission's report, acquire numbering from § 16 to § 20 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u30	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u31	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 22 which, on the Commission's report, has the numbering of § 21. Please vote. Vote 96 MPs: 95 against 1, no abstentions. The text of the importer for § 21 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u32	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be established § 22a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 22a, which becomes § 22, with the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 75 the word "supplier" is deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u33	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create § 22 with the corresponding version of the report. Please vote. 99 MPs voted: 97, none, abstention 2. The Commission's proposal to create § 22, with the corresponding text by report, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u34	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u35	Statements? I won't. We vote on the importer's text for paragraphs 23 and 24. They voted 104 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 4. The texts of the importer for paragraphs 23 and 24, which are supported by the Commission, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u36	Proposal by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova to create § 24a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 24a, which becomes § 25 with the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 82, para. 1, t. 2 words.............................................................................. 64, para. The following points are inserted after point (a)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u37	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create § 25 with the corresponding text on the report. 100 MPs voted: 98, none, abstention 2. The Commission's proposal to establish § 25 with the corresponding version of the report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u38	Proposal by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova to create § 24b. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 24b, which becomes § 26 with the following wording: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 90, para. 1, t. 2 words.............................................................................. 64, para. The following points are inserted after point (a)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u39	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create § 26 with the corresponding version proposed by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 98, against 2, abstention 2. The Commission's proposal to create § 26 together with the text proposed in the report by the Commission has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u40	Paragraph 25 "A proposal from the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 25 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u41	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 25 by importer. They voted 102 MPs: for 100, against 1, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to reject § 25 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u42	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be established § 25a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 25a, which becomes § 27 with the following wording: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 106, para. 3 words.............................................................................. 64, para. The following points are inserted after
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u43	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create § 27 by the version proposed by the Commission in its report. Please vote. Vote 92 MPs: 91 against 1, no abstentions. The Commission's proposal to create § 27 with the text proposed in its report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u44	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u45	Statements? I won't. We vote on the texts of the importer for paragraphs 26 and 27, which in the Commission report become paragraphs 28 and 29. Please vote. Vote 94 MPs: 90 against 1, abstention 3. The texts of the importer for paragraphs 26 and 27, which are adopted in the Commission report, paragraphs 28 and 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u46	Proposal by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova to create § 27a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 27a, which becomes § 30 with the following wording: 30. In Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 35a: 35a. The third State shall be any State which is not a member of the European Union or not a State Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or the Swiss Confederation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u47	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to establish § 30 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: for 93, no objection, abstention 2. The Commission's proposal to create § 30 with its proposed text on the report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u48	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u49	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 28, which in the Commission's report shall become § 31. Vote 92 MPs: for 89, against 1, abstention 2. The text of the importer for § 28, which in the Commission report becomes § 31, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u50	'Concluding provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 32.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u51	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is a technical text and I propose the section of the Let us end this legislative inflation. Lately, every importer has been trying to speed up law enforcement. The constitutional order is that they enter into force three days after their adoption. There are only procedures here, the addressees should only be able to get acquainted with them. This law has been open for discussion for a long time, so such an approach must really be applied only exceptionally. In this case, there is no justification for this. I do not see from the texts. I think Parliament should give a good signal of precise legislative activity. For this reason, I think it would be very good if the National Assembly rejected the above-mentioned motives under the paragraph and guided the Council of Ministers as an importer of the Bill and many of the Members of the National Assembly to resort to this legislative technique only in exceptional cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u53	Mrs. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have an exceptional case because it is a regulation for implementation and the deadlines for implementation in Bulgarian legislation have been running for a long time. That is why such a Final provision is required. I believe that the Members of the National Assembly will support the proposal for an importer and the proposal of the Committee on Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u55	Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov, § 29 by importer, which becomes § 32 by the Commission report, to be dismissed. They voted 94 MPs: 26, Against 41, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the compartment, as well as the text of the importer for § 29 which, in the Commission report, becomes § 32. Vote 97 MPs: 80 against 15, abstention 2. The text of the name of the division "Concluding provision" as well as § 32 on the Commission report have been adopted, and thus the draft medical devices bill in the second vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: REPORT OF THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION ON THE LEARNING OF THE FINANCIAL SITUATION OF PENSION OBSERVATIONS AND MANAGED BY SUCH UNIVERSAL AND PROFESSIONAL PENSION FUNDS AND THE APPLICATION OF THE REGULATORY SCOPE AND PROJECT FOR THE REPORT DECISION. Importer (s) Kornelia Ninova, 30 April 2015 Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, before we begin on the substance, I have been doing a procedure in advance with representatives of the Temporary Commission of the various parliamentary groups for this procedure............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ My argument is that the issue concerns about 4 million. 200,000. Souls. It's about managing their 8 billion. lv. There has been a lot of talk in recent months on this topic and people are expecting information from the Commission work, so please support the proposal for direct broadcasting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u57	A reverse opinion? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Cornelia Ninova for direct broadcast on the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. They voted 86 MPs: 66, against 3, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Please turn on the cameras and microphones.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u58	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I am proposing on the grounds of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure to allow the representatives of the Financial Supervision Commission in the Chamber: Angel Dzhalazov Vice-President, Andon Georgiev General Secretary, Maria Hristova Head of Department
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u59	We are voting on Mrs Ninova's proposal for admission to the House of the persons she has designated. Vote 72 MPs: 71 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Ninova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u60	Colleagues, I take this opportunity to inform you that there are representatives of the Association of Pension Companies on the balcony. I also see Mr. Abadzhiev the Chairman of the Association. We've invited them to today's debate. Ten meetings were held during the Commission's mandate. Problem issues have been identified and the need for changes in the regulatory base has been identified. For the first time, a temporary committee has decided to submit specific bills. Ten are the licensed pension companies in Bulgaria, 29 are the pension funds, the insured persons are 4 million. 290,000. The net assets amount to EUR 898 billion. 165 million. lv. or 10.1% of gross domestic product. On this slide you will see [[shows slide]] how assets grow over the years, what people's money is invested in. The majority of the assets of the compulsory pension funds are invested in debt securities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u61	The TV isn't broadcasting yet.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u62	Secondly, investments in shares, rights and shares are 28.07 per cent. [[BSP LB.]] Coming up next: Corporate bonds supplied 16.19%. [[Noise and lines in BSP LB.]] Colleagues, I have a very limited time for this report. If we lose him in technological matters...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u63	BNT cameras are not on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u64	BNT cameras weren't on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u65	Once again, please turn on the cameras of the Bulgarian National Television and the microphones of the Bulgarian National Radio.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u66	The majority of the assets are in debt securities. Secondly, investments in shares, rights and shares are 28.07 per cent. Corporate bonds supplied 16.19%. Bank deposits - 7,57%. Monetary funds "3.26%. Investment estates suppl. 2.32%. Short-term claims - 1.15%. Of 7 billion. Eighty-nine million. 347 thousand. lv. Investment of pension funds 4 billion Seventy-seven million. 593 thousand. lv. are in financial instruments traded on foreign regulated markets and 3 billion. 9 million. 754 thousand. lv. are in assets in Bulgaria. The proceeds from social security contributions are 5 billion. 917 million. 453 thousand. lv. The funds that have been paid up to now are 25 million. Ninety-six thousand. lv. On the slide you see them broken down by years, colleagues. I just don't have time to read in detail. You can see them for years. [[Shows slide.]] We will also provide you with information on the financial performance of each company separately on the next slides that I will not read. I'm just asking you to see them. I'm making an agreement that a Pension Insurance Company is registered in the last quarter of 2014 and has not yet managed pension funds. Income and calculation methodologies. By 31 March 2015 the Bulgarian pension companies must announce for the first time in the history of their existence the real income of pension funds for the last 10 years. Nominal and real profitability The methodology for calculating the yield has been validated by means of a sub-legal act. As explained during the hearings, pension companies were then involved in the development of the methodology. Over the years it has not changed, but the methods for calculating real profitability have become one of the most discussed problems in the Temporary Commission. The conflict was caused by the difference in yield values in the published data from the Association of Pension Companies and the Financial Supervision Commission. In the process of analysing the references provided by both parties, it was found that differences in yield values came first from the different time periods covered by the calculations and, secondly, from the use of different approaches and applied methodologies. The data of the Association of Companies for Extra Pension Insurance are: 1. The nominal yield of UMF is + 5,6% on an annual basis for the period from 1 April 2002 to 31 December 2013. 2. The actual net yield of the RFF on an annual basis after deduction of all fees and deductions collected by companies adjusted by the effect of inflation for the period from 1 April 2002 to 30 September 2014 is +0.46%. The revenue information provided by the Financial Supervision Commission, also translated on an annual basis with the entire 12-year period, is an average of 5,45% for the universal funds, making an average of 1,46% for the professional funds, and for the professional funds it is 0,98% according to the Financial Supervision Commission (FSC). Nikola Abadzhiev "President of the Bulgarian Association of Companies" said: "Some of the examples of the major differences: - According to the information submitted by the Financial Supervision Commission for the period the average real yield of universal pension funds is negative on an annual basis from 1 July 2004 to 31 December 2014. - Contrary to the above, in the calculations of the Association on a methodology based on international standards, the actual yield for the period 30 June 2004 - 30 September 2014 was positive at 0,486 per cent on an annual basis and for the whole period was 5.1 per cent. Maria Hristova, Head of the Department of Risk Assessment and Risk Assessment at the Directorate of Regulatory Modes and Insurance Supervision of the CSC, said: The Divergence comes from the different period of calculation. The pension companies calculate the 2002 yield. That is, they ignore what is required to start the calculation from 1 July 2004 Stoyan Mavrodiev, Chairman of the C.F.R., said: "Both methodologies are applied in CFA standards, so we cannot talk about which methodology is correct and which methodology is wrong. The Commission's decision on this matter. Agreeing to improve the methodology and regulate its implementation and use together with other information to accompany the disclosure of profitability. It was agreed that representatives of the Commission, of the Association, as well as of the two associations of managing companies of investment firms would discuss adjustments to the methodology in the direction of its improvement and one that would not create contradictions. A working group between the Financial Supervision Commission and the Association was established during the work of our Commission. This group is continuing. We've given her a two-month period. It must draw up a final version of the methodology. The Commission recommends to the Working Group, when determining the methodology, to pay attention to the terminology it will use in the future and to decide whether this methodology will calculate nominal profitability or real profitability or both. The Temporary Commission recommends that the C.F.R.S. do not declare a real yield separately from the nominal until a uniform methodology has been developed in the working group. Property and related persons. Colleagues, you'll see behind me on the slides the owners of pension companies. [[Shows slide.]] The Law prohibits offshore companies from operating as a pension insurance company or participation in such a company. Any change to the public limited liability company which exceeds the thresholds laid down in the law shall be subject to approval and shall be published on the Financial Supervision Commission's website at any time. The full information on the actual owners that we requested from the C.F.R., pension insurance companies and it was attached to this report in full on 10 March 2015. You'll see the app. Behind me you probably see the changes in ownership that occurred in the years, and these are the actual owners as of March 10, 2015. [[Shows slide.]] Associated persons, another problem that we discussed in the Commission. Angel Zhalazov, Vice-President of the C.F.R., said: "We are making a proposal to expand the definition of........ only for the pension sector..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We offer stronger control requirements, mainly by settling how the controller's participation in the controlling capital is calculated. Nikola Abadzhiev, Chairman of the Association of Companies, said: "Yes, legislative changes are needed taking into account the specifics of the activities of supplementary pension insurance and the investment activities of pension funds. The current framework shows certain shortcomings in the direction of increasing the risk of investment in related persons. Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, commented: "It has long been known that there is a problem in the norm that allows such a practical application that there is a real prerequisite for someone being tempted to make investments in de facto related persons, but the law does not regard as such. That is why the Commission comes before you with the following decision: The members of the Temporary Commission have accepted that they are coming up with a legislative initiative in connection with the extension of the concept of........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Colleagues, I am making the agreement that all legislative initiatives that I will mention on behalf of the Commission have been developed as laws to amend and supplement existing laws. They are available to all parliamentary groups. Please discuss them and seek consent to submit them in total in the next few days. Taxi and deductions. On the slides, you see the tax revenue. I will show you revenue from fees in 2014; the types of fees and deductions: - from social security contributions - 46 million 649 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • - from the investment fee. 66 million. 108,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • - for a transfer to another fund of 3 million. 704 thousand. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the 461 thousand. lv. Revenues from fees and deductions of pension insurance companies in 2014 have an increase of 14.93 per cent compared to 2013. These figures show a tendency to increase the revenue of the companies from fees and deductions by each subsequent year. The total amount of the fees and deductions collected in the second pillar over the entire period from 2003 to 2014 is 661 million. 105,000. lv. We suggest a reduction in these fees. Motives: you see an effect for individual lots in the reduction of fees paid by the Commission. In reducing fees and deductions by up to 140% on the individual accounts of the insured persons, an additional 46 million would be accumulated. Eight hundred and eighty thousand. Angel Jalazov, vice-president of the C.F.R., said: "With tax cuts, we aim not to deprive companies of revenue, but, on the contrary, to increase funds on the accounts of the insured persons. Nikola Abadzhiev, Chairman of the Association of Companies: On the matter it is necessary to proceed to a specific solution. According to the Association, it should be considered and decided in the context of any changes to the legislation that concern the activities of pension companies and the funds they manage. Commission Decision The Commission has united around the need to reduce fees. Following the agreement reached, the members of the Temporary Commission shall propose a legislative proposal for a change in fees with a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code at your disposal, colleagues. Changes in the pension model The temporary commission was created as a result of the changes made at the end of 2014 in the Social Security Code through the Law on the Budget of the Bulgarian citizens' pension contributions from private funds to the NSI. For this reason, as they directly concern the Commission's activities, the changes were also discussed in it. On 5 March the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov was invited. He informed that: A functional feature is being developed to change the information system of the NRA, to further develop the system so as to distribute the social contribution to the Fund and the DVO, the transfer of funds to the Silver Fund and, in certain cases, the recovery of the funds to the Fund, a concept that is possible. There is no final decision on it, it has to go the way of legislation. ............................................... The Commission of Minister Goranov asked the following questions: did the government challenge the three-starch model? Is there any financial justification for how this would affect the NSI deficit and the pension fund situation of a possible transfer of contributions to the selection of persons? Do they intend to allow this transfer to be repeated? Vladislav Goranov replied: regarding the financial justification we are working on it, but we do not despise that someone will prefer a change of the current model and in this case it is difficult to guess how many people have concerns and would prefer the other model. The three-strength model is not in question and has never stood. We have no idea to deliberately, knowingly prejudge the closing of the second pillar. A question asked in the Commission: Do you foresee keeping individual accounts in the event of a transfer, or will the amounts go to the total amount of money in the transfer? Vladislav Goranov: In the Silver Fund it will be clear that the amounts are on the person who has chosen to be provided in the DOD. If the person resolves this choice, the exact same amount that has entered the Silver Fund will go out and return to one of the supplementary insurance funds. On the question will there be individual accounts in the Silver Fund no, but there will be information on each person how much money has been transferred to the Silver Fund. Question: while funds are in the Silver Fund, do they bear the same rights, are they inherited and do they have income? No, they're not supposed to inherit, and no, they don't yield. Is the silver fund part of the reserve? Yes, the Silver Fund by law is part of the fiscal reserve. How will the transfer of contributions and accumulation to the Silver Fund affect the reserve, i.e. will its target be nominally increased? Yes, there will be a nominal increase in the target part of the fiscal reserve, but it will not be able to be used, as it is now not available. On 12 March, the Commission was invited by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin, who said: "This system is theoretically possible. It will surely give people more freedom of choice, but we must not forget that it is a transfer between two different systems. One is a cost roofing system. This is the solidarity system in the NSI, the other is capital in which they accumulate and make profits. So moving from one system to another in all cases also implies costs that are at the expense of the people. Especially for the Silver Fund Minister Kalfin said: "This makes sense precisely because of the multiple choice. Because if the choice is a one-off and is transferred from a capital account to the NSI the corresponding amount and it does not enter into the Silver Fund, it will just be spent as a sum next month. The point is that when it goes into the solidarity system one contribution, it no longer accumulates and it cannot be expected to accumulate additional profits. Mr. Kalfin's opinion is that the NSI should not become a competitor of private funds and start managing personal accounts, investing in the market and so on. Regarding the yield of the Silver Fund, he said: "Today the funds of the Silver Fund as part of the state budget are managed by BNB. The profit gained from this management goes to the profit of BNB and then the state is turned back by a dividend that it takes from the Central Bank. I am sure that all these arguments will develop capital schemes in private pension funds to convince people not to move their accounts from there. Nikola Abadzhiev, Chairman of the Association: With the involvement of the state fund for guaranteeing the pension system as a repository of funds from the supplementary pension insurance funds, an attempt is made to use a tool designed to ensure sustainability while destroying the security of the pension system in Bulgaria. The Commission also examined the International Monetary Fund report, where the following remarks are made regarding the change in the system: "Proments are a radical change and require an in-depth discussion, an adequate solution in the long term. The multiple transfers of funds of the insured persons present a risk to the stability of the pension system. Those were quotes, colleagues. The Commission's decision on this issue: the proposal of the Finance Minister to transfer the contributions to the Silver Fund was discussed in the Temporary Commission as far as its subject-matter is concerned. This change is a matter of a political decision of each parliamentary group in the Forty-third National Assembly. The Commission does not come up with a proposal for a decision on this matter. National Revenue Agency During the hearing of Deputy Prime Minister Ivaylo Kalfin, the national representative Dimitar Bajraktarov asked the following question: In recent days I have received over 60 letters, mostly from young people who have started their work since 1 January 2015. Their contributions to pension funds practically do not go to their individual accounts, and as far as I understand from Mr. Finance Minister, they are in the accounts of the National Revenue Agency. In other words, they do not bring profitability. Ivaylo Kalfin answered on this question: What you are saying is that the contributions to the second pillar to the NRA's accounts, which collects insurance contributions, are a surprise to me as well. Perhaps Minister Goranov will be able to tell you more about this. Minister Goranov: There are no cases in which funds of persons born after 1959 who are required to be detained in the banking system or in the accounts of the NRA. On the issues raised, we invited a representative of the National Revenue Agency. Milena Krastanova, Deputy Executive Director of the NRA, informed: In relation to Mr. Bajraktarov's question concerning the first-time insurance of the persons from 1 January 2015, the number of these persons is 7446. Of these, 2365 have submitted applications at the end of February for the selection of a fund and their contributions are made within the set deadlines. 5081 people have not applied for fund selection until the end of February 2015. The amounts paid for them are available in the accounts of the NRA, stand in the NRA and will stand there until a fund selection by the persons or until the regulatory framework changes. Milen Markov, a Pension Insurance Company, said on this issue that there are a number of insured persons in the information system for whom the contributions for 2010 and 2011 of a self-insured person are received and from then on half for 2012, 2013 and 2014. There were no timely receipts on the accounts, respectively no income of the insured persons. Milena Krastanova of the NRA explained:......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The total amount transferred from the beginning of the year to the NRA's account was 266 million. Five hundred and BGN 668 However, colleagues, there are untranslated amounts that are due in different specific situations of discrepancies, including many employers first translate the amounts, subsequently submit declarations and submit corrective declarations. Regarding the issue of the funds available on deposit accounts in BNB, the total amount of funds held by the NRA is 90 million from the people's contributions to BNB's deposit accounts. lv. Nevena Krastanova explains that there are problems with these contributions: According to MP Yordan Tsonev, in this case a change is needed in the practice of the NRA. If there is a legislative change, i.e. if there is any difference between the funds imported and the contributions declared, the funds should be transferred to the pension funds and then the NRA should establish the difference, it should be easier to administer the funds. Commission Decision on this discussion: The Commission is united around the opinion on a change in the direction of facilitating the administration of the process by the NRA. Regulatory framework The Commission also raised a question about the checks carried out by the Financial Supervision Commission in pension insurance companies, their results and the penalties imposed, i.e. is control of companies effective and is it real? Results, colleagues. Statistics: 7 inspections were carried out in 2010 in 2011. ===External In the period 2003 - 2009 389 acts for administrative violations of funds were drawn up. 335 penal decrees were issued, of which 295 entered into force, and 40 were revoked by the court. In the period 2010-2014, 328 acts were drawn up for the identification of administrative violations by the funds, with 318 penal decrees issued, of which 104 entered into force, 178 in an appeal procedure and 34 revoked by the court. Forced administrative measures imposed for the period 2003 - 2009 s 22 pcs., for the period 2010 - 2014 100 pcs. Forced penal measures since 2003 have increased by nearly 40%, colleagues have increased 4 times, which is justified both in terms of increased assets and in terms of increasing the trend towards stricter regulation, especially after the financial crisis. The national report on Bulgaria from February 2015 of the European Commission on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances clearly states that the Financial Supervision Commission conducts strict supervision of pension funds. Who regulates the regulator, that is, who regulates the Financial Supervision Commission? Besides us having to accept their reports and reports here? The temporary committee has been provided with information on which European regulators verify the quality and effectiveness of supervision. Stoyan Mavrodiev, Chairman of the C.F.R.: ESMA is a specialized European body for professional supervision and regulation of securities and markets. The other body is the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority EECPA. 13 inspections have been carried out in the C.F.R. since 2011 by the ESM, i.e. since this financial supervision system has been in operation. Some of these checks are still underway and are not finished. In the course of the checks, the conclusion is that the Financial Supervision Commission strictly applies the requirements of European securities and markets legislation and maintains the highest standards in its work. 7 checks have been carried out in the field of insurance and occupational pension insurance. It has been found again that the FSC strictly respects European legislation in these areas, noting that the results have been seriously achieved despite their limited financial resources. Commission Decision on this matter The provisional Commission agreed on the conclusion that it is necessary to strengthen the supervisory capacity of the C.F.R. as recommended by the European Commission's quoted report. The strengthening of supervisory capacity is a guarantee of the independence of the C.F.R.S. from economic and political influences. This independence is key to the stability of the non-banking financial system. Last, the signal submitted for discussion by the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov. At its meeting, the Commission examined this signal in a specific case. Vladimir Savov, vice-president of the C.F.R., informed us: The first signal was received in the Financial Supervision Commission in February 2013. In it. 114 et seq. of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities by the Public Company CEZ Distribution Bulgaria. Article 114 provides for a special order for prior approval of large-value transactions or with the participation of interested parties from the general meeting of shareholders of the public company. Large transactions or transactions with related parties committed in breach or concluded without approval of the General Assembly shall be considered minor. The Financial Supervision Commission finds that art. 114 is not applicable in this case. The second signal of "Trust" repeated the first one, which already ruled the C.F.R.S.A. a year ago, and days before that, the Sofia City Court dismissed the case. Stoyan Mavrodiev stated on this occasion: "All listed and detailed transactions worth 900 million. lv. they did not fall within the scope of art. 114 and all this happened before the acquisition of public status of CEZ Distribution and its listing on the Stock Exchange. Dimitar Bajraktarov addressed the Financial Supervision Commission because under the Financial Supervision Commission Act it has the power to interpret the legislation, in this case the Public Offering of Securities Act. Yordan Tsonev, a member of a parliamentary commission, said: "There is no doubt that the FSC has complied with the letter of the law, but there is no doubt that pension insurance companies are entitled to seek protection against such type of ongoing transactions. In this regard, the Commission decided: in relation to the case under consideration, we believe that there is a problem and, in order to protect the maximum extent, the interest of minority shareholders, explicit rules should be laid down in the Law on the Public Offering of Securities with regard to transactions in continuous execution. Such explicit rules, colleagues, we have proposed to you in the form of a Law amending and supplementing the Public Papers Act. At the meeting held on 28 April 2015, the report on the activities of the Temporary Committee on the study of the financial situation of pensioners and their managed universal and professional pension funds and the implementation of the regulatory framework was finally adopted by 6 votes for the pension fund and 1 abstention. We propose to Parliament a draft decision: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 35 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt the report of the Temporary Commission for the examination of the financial situation of pensioners and their managed universal and professional pension funds and the application of the regulatory framework with the findings and recommendations contained therein.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Colleagues, we heard the report together with the presentation to him. The debate is open. Please, Members of the National Assembly wishing to participate in it, give a sign. Mrs. Mariana Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honored guests! I would like to express my high appreciation for the Commission's work, because I think it can be set as an example, as it is the first interim committee formed in the Forty-third National Assembly. I wish similar success to other temporary committees, which also have very important and socially important missions. I cannot fail to note the retention of good tone during the work of the Commission and the high professionalism of both President Ninova and Vice-President Mr. Ananiev and all Commissioners, because there were quite critical moments, a lot of disputes, but then some of the colleagues gave up, made a lot of compromises in order to reach consensus and the clashes were rather productive and fruitful. There was a temptation for the Commission to exceed its powers because irregularities were also found through the imported signal of colleague Bajraktarov, but she did not because it is not appropriate to behave as a supervisory institution of a supervisory authority. A more sensible and working solution is to propose, as has happened, legislative changes that will fill legislative gaps. As you know, there was one member of each parliamentary group in the Commission and consensus and objectivity of the work were reached. This gives me optimism that if such consensus can be raised on a micro-level, it can also be achieved on a macro level when solving other important problems. I can therefore say that here the political interests and the extraction of political dividends gave way to finding a working solution and the Commission objectively doing its job. The Commission has done a huge amount of work. It did not only adequately analyse the regulatory base, the financial situation of pension companies and their pension funds, but the Commission's very formation had a beneficial effect on the removal of tensions among society and the removal of tensions between the increased relations between the Financial Supervision Commission and pension companies. I believe that this is one of the good contributions to the Commission's work. I would like to highlight a few successes and results that have resulted from the discussion in the Commission. First of all, pension insurance companies came to the belief and agreed that a gradual reduction of fees and deductions for their services in universal and professional pension funds should be undertaken. This will also be one of our legislative proposals, which we will make on behalf of the Commission, as Mrs Ninova has already said. It is important to reduce the fees so that they do not lead to a large reduction of the accumulated funds on the accounts of the insured persons. Secondly, as has been pointed out in the report, a working group is formed between the representatives of the Bulgarian Association of Pension Companies, the Financial Supervision Commission, the Bulgarian Association of Licensed Investment Mediators and the Bulgarian Association of Management Companies. It will work until we find an acceptable option for a single methodology. It is important to adopt a uniform methodology so that the data does not differ, because this also has a psychological effect on society. Where the supervisory authority says that the yield is negative and companies that are positive, this creates a problem of confidence in the use of the services of pension companies. It is therefore important to find a solution and that people have an informed choice, especially after the envisaged changes, which say that lots of pension companies can be transferred to the Silver Fund and vice versa. Thirdly, the Commission recommended and came up with a legislative initiative to expand the concept of related persons, as it has been found by various institutions - both Bulgarian and European - that there is a need for such a change. The Commission agreed on the conclusion that the Commission's supervisory capacity for financial supervision should be increased, adequate resources should be available for the implementation of administrative powers and for the construction of an electronic platform and other such. Last but not least, in relation to the signal of my colleague Bajraktarov, the Commission comes up with a concrete proposal, namely a change in art. 114 of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, with the intended amendments to the Law aimed at limiting the operation of transactions concluded in breach of the provisions of that regulatory act and granting the relevant powers to the regulatory authority to self-examine and take the relevant legal measures to remedy the infringements. The debate that took place in the Commission and in the media also acts as a kind of information campaign for people who were interested in where they were stationed, if they had not specifically chosen a pension fund, they were interested in portfolio management and profitability. As Mrs. Ninova stressed, it became clear that in relation to the new changes and because of the lack of a regulation to determine the order for the transfer of pension accounts from the funds to the Silver Fund, the accounts of the new ones on the labour market last year, young people who have not explicitly chosen a pension fund, stand on accounts in the NRA and this problem needs to be cleared. In addition to legislative initiatives, in relation to the interests of society, I have allowed myself to propose some recommendations outside the Commission's direct activity and which were in its periphery but socially significant. First of all, I suggested that the publication of investment portfolios of pension funds happen not once a year, but at least once every three months, so that society can have clarity about the investment activities and activity of the funds. Secondly, in relation to the proposal made by the Association of Pension Companies and the Financial Supervision Commission to build a common guarantee fund, I also took the liberty of recommending one because there were ideas for each pension company to make a guarantee fund. However, I believe that if a pension company has not managed its assets well in the event of a possible problem, it is also assumed that it will not manage well the portfolios of the guarantee fund. Finally, I believe that the Commission has done a good job in order to clear some problems and in the context of the forthcoming pension reform, and there is already a basis for the changes to continue with the foundation of a guarantee fund, and with the introduction of multifunds and risk-based supervision and so on. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Todorova. - What's the line? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u70	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I am the only representative of the Commission who has voted on the report with abstention. Moreover, I have signed this report with a particular opinion. Why? Yes, the colleague is extremely right that the members of the Commission have done a great deal of work, but not to the end. Colleagues, if you have read this report or at least bother to read it, you should pay attention to some extremely important things. Firstly, the creation of the Commission was preceded by an extremely sharp public debate, which was heated following the changes at the end of December to the Social Security Code and taking action under the so-called If someone decides to move several billion leva from the pension funds, which, by the way, are the basis of the capital market in Bulgaria, in another direction. From this point of view, the Commission has had the object of examining the financial situation of pension funds, but the first issue that was important and which we as the Commission do not give you an answer to is ultimately what imposed these changes in order to form this Commission? What forced several billion leva to start moving in an unknown direction? Because the changes in the legislation supported by the DPS actually outlined an unknown direction I said it another month of December and this is already a fact, six months later. Colleagues, if you read the report carefully, you will probably be extremely surprised because you will see only accounting for income of pension companies. This information is extremely public. There's nothing here that's not public. Even in the app you will see the links that refer you to the publicity of this information. In other words, pension insurance companies, as well as the Financial Supervision Commission, have never withheld this information. However, you will not find a single figure for their expenses. Dear colleagues, you will see that there is not a single sentence to conclude: what is the financial situation of pensioners after all. Well, if the Commission could hold 10 meetings for months, I say, tiring, until late at night, and ultimately, as the Commission, you wouldn't come up with a conclusion as to what the financial situation is, how people's money is managed, what income has been brought to people. When I say income, I need to explain it very simply and clearly to you because they are absolutely right both colleagues from the pension funds and colleagues from the Financial Supervision Commission. When commenting on a methodology for calculating profitability, this is extremely expert material. It is not for an ordinary person to exercise on yield material. For this reason, I recommended to my colleagues at the C.F.R.S. not to announce the yield, because it has many different calculation methodologies. Unfortunately, some of the methodologies applied in the developed European countries have not yet been introduced in Bulgaria are not yet widely practiced. Moreover, I will share what I have also said in the Commission, we still do not have such expertise in Bulgaria and therefore pension insurance companies, as they themselves have acknowledged and confirmed, pay serious sums to employ expertise from the outside. Unfortunately, we do not yet have that kind of expertise. By the way, there's information that may be out of misunderstanding purely misleading. Colleagues, you will see that in the portfolios of pension companies net assets as of 31 December 2014 are worth 8 billion. 164 million. lv. Eight billion and 164 million. lv.! You'll see that there are individual accounts found. Here immediately arises the next question mark for more than 4 million. 200,000. souls insured persons. However, these are only individual lots as numbers. The question will immediately arise: if there are 4 million. 200,000. insured persons, why are they not, for example, provided to the NSI system? Here is the great question mark, whose answer the report does not give. The answer is simple. A lot of these people have lots that don't move. They are not moving because the majority of these people are our young Bulgarians who left the country. They are simply not located in Bulgaria and there is no movement on their accounts for years. I say these things because they are extremely important, and the difference between the Pension Fund and the 4 million NSI. 200,000. It's a million people. Five hundred thousand, like living souls. Here is a question to which the report does not answer. There is also a lot of comment on the issue of fees, which is also an extremely expert issue. People who do not understand the subject at all are being misled by some public attitudes that, if you see, we should reduce the fees of the pension funds. Yes, you should, but in what way and in what way?! Does anyone realize that a mechanical reduction in fees actually creates a monopoly?! No one has made an account, and there is no way, because not all people are specialists in this matter. This means that if an investor decides to create a new fund, at these reduced fees there is no chance of surviving on the market because it is being set new conditions. 12 years ago, no one asked the pension companies if it was easy for them. If you look at the receipts tables, you will ask yourself whether the fees were at all sufficient to enable pension companies to develop networks, offices of settlements and whether they were not at all in this period of loss. Not to mention that the first few years with these fees they did not even have a chance to meet the terms of the Ordinance on advertising and information activities.. to develop a massive information activity for citizens. If now you mechanically reduce the fees, this means that you are practically excluding new players in this capital market and we are creating a monopoly. It's not that simple and you don't think so superficially about these serious topics. A third issue, which is extremely important, concerns how much money as a cash mass has been realised in these extremely complex years, a period of crisis in which pension companies had to manage the money of Bulgarian citizens. I'll let you know. Almost 2 billion. BGN, almost 2 billion lv.! You will find the answer in the additional applications where the NRA gives accurate information on how much money it has transferred with the accumulation of pension funds. There is the answer, but strangely why this response was not given by the Commission in its report. Obviously, this is the rule of law, and I will not comment on that the Commission's report is being drafted by the President, but ultimately it must be as objective as possible and give the most accurate information to stop all speculation, to come up with precise and clear conclusions. Yes, Mr. Bayraktarov has signaled for connected persons. Now I will explain what this is about, because first, on this signal, there was absolutely inaccurate information recorded in the report that the court had dismissed the case. There's no such thing! Colleagues, we are talking about contracts between related parties of CEZ of a total value of between 900 million. and 1 billion. lv. Since this is not the subject of the Commission, it cannot require the contracts, unfortunately, but it would have been very interesting to demand them and to see if one subsidiary of CEZ had rented out to another subsidiary of CEZ to say computers with a monthly rent of 2 thousand. lv.; or cars with a monthly rental of 5 thousand. lv. In understandable Bulgarian this means damage of the Bulgarian budget by reducing the financial result; load at the final price for Bulgarian electricity consumers, with not less. Colleagues, referring to the example of two companies, I will express here my humble opinion that someone will not do his job properly. I would rather say that in the Financial Supervision Commission, there is a blatant need to strengthen capacity and financial support for this capacity. If the Commission had this capacity and financial resources, I am sure that this thing would not have been allowed. I want a time extension. The signal I've given has been transmitted to all the institutions. The court, however, said: "Yes, the signal is legitimate. Gentlemen, if you want to see a case, you have to submit a 4% fee. Sieć several tens of million leva from the accounts of the people who invest their money in pension companies. Well, who's gonna be the one to split a few tens of millions and rely on our justice system to say in years' time, or not? There's no normal person like that. That's the truth. However, there are many talks here, because with a legislative change, there is a possibility that we can legitimize the outrage that has occurred with regard to the related parties. I consider that Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 As I said, according to art. 13 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act it should have issued a general opinion signed by all members. That's the kind of attitude I didn't see, for some reason. I asked a lot, there are shorthands, you can see. Colleagues, I will finally say that we at the Patriotic Front cannot support such a report, which does not actually give us the full and clear picture. This can't go on like this. Pension companies have worked well, but we do not have a clear and accurate picture of who the real owners of these pension companies are. Here we have a emptiness in the legislation.. We do not have an accurate and clear idea. We have no precise and clear idea whether any of these pension companies have accidentally been playing along with the scheme of.................................................................................................. We also do not have, and we cannot, in this report today give you this answer. We should give it up. Yeah, the coworkers worked hard. I thank my colleague Vladislav Nikolov, who stood up for the business, because it was very easy to pass the blame on the NRA to the business and business to load up and pay. What's the NRA's fault anyway? To date, the NRA accounts hold 170 million of Bulgarian citizens' money instead of their accounts. And not since yesterday or that day, almost 10 years. One hundred and seventy million at least that's the official reference. It was very easy to say: employers and businesses create false declarations, so let us meet them. Colleague Nikolov as a man who has worked for many years does part of it, says it publicly stood up and defended the business because it should. But these things do not appear in the report, and they must be clearly and accurately said. Naturally, in the report at my request, we reflected that the new Bulgarian citizens after 1 January, a large part of their money...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u71	The time to clarify, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u72	Yes, I'm done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u73	You can extend the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u74	Yeah, I'm extending it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u75	It's prolonged.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u76	Is it extended? I'm done.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u77	So you used the extended time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u78	I only say two words at the end because they're important. A large part of the young Bulgarians who first started working and signed employment contracts after 1 January 2015, it turns out that their money is also not on their individual accounts in the funds, are still in some account of the NRA something that can bring serious problems to the Bulgarian state tomorrow, because these people can present serious claims for unrealized income from their contributions. That's it, guys. Think about it. Ninety-two pages is the report without the annexes. It's nice to read it and get to know it in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u79	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. To make a statement there is Mr. Zhelyo Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I would just like to remind you how this Temporary Committee has been established. We have witnessed one thing, I would say, a rather inappropriate proposal for amendments to the Social Security Code with the State Budget Act. You know the idea that some of the insurance contributions should be transferred from the universal pension funds to the National Insurance Institute budget. And you know the scandal and discussion that arose in the Bulgarian society. Apart from the establishment of the Temporary Committee of inquiry, I would like to recall what public opinion was on this subject. There were a number of speculations about the financial situation of pension insurance companies and their managed universal pension funds, what is the financial situation, what are the assets they manage, what is the control of their activities, what is the yield. All these questions provoked the BSP Parliamentary Group to make the initiative to create this Commission. And I am grateful that it has finally come to its creation and today we are looking at its report. What does not impress me and I am satisfied with the Commission's work is that several of the questions raised have been clarified. One issue that concerns all Bulgarian citizens insured since 1959 is precisely speculation about the calculation of real profitability. You know, there were different published public values. On one side were the data of the Association of Pension Companies, on the other hand was the methodology that the Financial Supervision Commission applied. The Commission made it clear, after all, that it was a time gap, it was a different approach, a different methodology. And I see that a period of two months has been given since the adoption of this report to clear this issue. There were many questions about ownership and related persons. We now have in the Parliamentary Commission report the actual state and ownership of these companies. You can see that the analysis has shown that there are a number of gaps in the Bulgarian legislation regarding the related parties and this will be an initiative of legislative changes. I am also pleased that the Commission has played another role and is essentially proposing a reduction in fees. You know, these companies collect several types of fees. And if you see the reference from the entire report, one example for 2014 the dispute of the collected fees is within 116 million. 461 thousand. The Commission's proposal, in the light of the reduced version, would amount to 69 million. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) Eight hundred and eighty thousand. If only that had been what the Commission had done, it was worth the support and the effect of its work.. 46 million. 880 thousand will be allocated to the contributions to the personal accounts of each of the insured persons. And I see that there is a consensus from all sides on the offer of these changes. After all, one of the important issues that stood at the beginning of the Commission's work was the control over the activities of pensioners and universal pension funds, and you see that the Commission proposes to strengthen supervisory capacity, as recommended by the European Commission. So we can ultimately argue that the work of the Commission and the report clarify a number of issues that stood before the Bulgarian society, concrete legislative proposals and measures are being implemented and I hope that they will be included in Parliament's agenda as soon as possible. In my opinion, the Commission report and the entire discussion will make a significant contribution to the forthcoming discussion and submission of proposals for the forthcoming pension reform and, overall, it is a good institutional example of a well done job for me, which seems to me that both the members of the Commission and the President of the Commission deserve to be congratulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u81	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Vladislav Nikolov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As a member of this Commission, I would like to introduce you to her work with several sentences. Representatives of all groups in parliament were included inside. The work was active, dialogueal, which is good and is indicative of the work and of this National Assembly. This could be the basis for working in such a direction. All that we have looked very closely at in the Temporary Commission, however, I would like to say that before that, it has also been examined in the Committee on Budget and Finance, but I do not deny that we have examined all the documents more thoroughly here. Since the name of the Commission itself is an examination of the financial situation of the funds in question, I still think that the real effect, and this should be spoken everywhere to the Bulgarian citizens, who achieved this Commission and we within as members, is to talk that the state of these funds is good. And you shouldn't speculate on their condition. The debate that preceded the Commission about the negative yield and perhaps, above all, this debate caused this Commission to be made, I think, with our actions and with this report that we made in the Commission, we have proved that no real income is calculated elsewhere, except in pension funds. And the method itself is wrong. This is what we need to explain to the Bulgarian citizens. Because if they start asking about the real yield on their bank deposits, they will understand that it is quite different and it is not the interest that the banks give you. If we look at the yield of the funds for these 12 years, it may be over 96%. So all Bulgarian citizens who have contributed their contributions must be calm to them. This is the final result of our Commission to bring peace, to know that the yield is positive. The actual result is that the criterion is not going to be used, which has so far been used because this indicator in different years gives different rates, but is ultimately not used elsewhere. I appeal to all the members of this Commission and those who have signed the report, and to reassure the Bulgarian citizens in Parliament, to tell them that their money in the pension funds is secure; that their income will no longer be used this methodology, is positive and that they receive income from the money they have invested there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u83	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Ananiev, we're listening to your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u84	Madam President, honourable Members! As Vice-President of the Commission, I can say that we have done a lot of work. If we had done enough, it certainly could have been done more. Whether this is the perfect report is not, is not the perfect report, could still be done. We have had eight meetings for these eight meetings we have been able to get a lot of information and it is included in the report itself. All Commissioners have actively participated in the discussions. We've come up with a lot of information we didn't know before. About the yield. In fact, the creation of the Commission itself was linked to the so-called As Mr. Nikolov said earlier, the state of the funds is good, but the problem is with this terminology. Only one yield should be used, as the general public, people who do not have a financial culture, who do not know and have no financial education, do not care what the real yield is, because they simply do not understand it. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]] The experts understand her...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u85	Mr. Ananiev, I'm sorry. Colleagues, the noise in this House is so loud that also those Members who follow the debate and want to hear the speaker cannot do this. Please be quiet in the hall. Sorry, mate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u86	I think we have made progress in this report. First of all, this working group, which was established between the Financial Supervision Commission and the pension funds, until then, so to speak, they did not talk, they did not communicate only with e-mails, with correspondence. They had even requested the resignations of various members of the Financial Supervision Commission. There is now a working group.. it has specific tasks which are set by the Temporary Commission and which we hope will fulfil, related to the terminology of the connectivity of the people, which is very important. However, it is a very deep problem - a temporary committee cannot unravel this connectivity in any way, or a subcommittee to the Committee on Budget and Finance must be set up - the problem is very serious. It just takes a lot of time and constant verification of these facts because it turns out that by law a property check was carried out in 2010. Since then, no such verification has been carried out as there is no such legal requirement. We will propose different CIDs in the Commission, as we have agreed with our fellow Members, we have already proposed several. This came out of this Commission, which, in my opinion, is very important for the changes that will certainly make the model itself much better. The signal Mr. Bajraktarov told us about......................................................................................... 114, with which we close this loophole, the companies that have become public, which is currently being used by CEZ. I think this is a very good step, very positive of the Commission's work. And about the fees, I mean. Taxis must be reduced. Over the entire period, up to now, 600 million tax dollars have been collected. For these 12 years, 600 million are the fees that we have paid all of us - all of us are members of these funds. From our salaries, they charge to the funds. So the fees need to be raised, not only the fee that is to the contributions, but also the investment fee, because this investment fee actually shows what these funds are doing their job properly. It must be paid on the basis of the yield they have brought, what work they have done. At the moment, whether they were doing a good job, whether they were carrying 3 or 6% returns, where we have a 100% difference, they receive this fee without any commitment to their work. So you could think about it this way, too. I personally call on most people to check where their money is. I think that there was also a sociological study. It turned out that many people were not interested, as these funds were due to be deducted from their salary. They don't know what fund they're in. I even asked a few Members of the National Assembly and it turns out they don't know where their funds are either. So I call on you to ask you where your funds are. Log into the Financial Supervision Commission website, see what income your fund brings you, where your funds go; see if you are satisfied with this yield. If you're not satisfied, change your fund, take someone who brings better income. Keep an eye on what's going on with this money of yours, because, of course, everyone will think about where his money is the moment the retirement time comes and when they have to get that extra pension. Then he'll be interested, but it may be too late. A percentage difference in yield over a period of 30 years is a huge amount that will have a huge impact on the amount that will be received from universal pension funds. I would like to thank all the Commissioners, Mrs Cornelia Ninova. With absolutely all our colleagues, we had some disagreements about the truth in the dispute, but I think it was very good work for these two months, for these eight meetings. Of course, it is not enough for the Budget and Finance Commission to continue to control the financial situation and the regulatory framework, as these funds are managed by a huge amount, more than 4 million. Bulgarian citizens have a direct interest. We, as the National Assembly, must monitor and ensure that everything is okay, that the system is stable, as we have established, that there are no problems in these funds. But we need to clear out the nuances that are bothering us and that would cause some kind of panic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u87	Thank you for your speech, Mr. Ananiev. Replices, honourable colleagues? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, first of all, I would like to congratulate the Commission on the work that has been done, as it is aimed at revealing concrete facts and not at the usual political activity, and I hope that we will continue this way from now on. I would like to draw attention to two issues. One question, my fellow Members, is the latest changes to the Social Security Code, which were called...................................................................................... Here we must continue to insist that Parliament unite around a position that really gives free choice to people, not if you have not decided to choose a private fund, to go to the NSI. No, if you went or a guy who went to the NOI once, he could never come back. It's no coincidence that a man, God forbid, with his wife, can divorce his husband, but with NOI, never. This question continues to stand, and we have a duty to resolve it. The second point I would like to draw your attention to is that we are talking about the fees that the funds collect, but I did not see any international comparisons in the report that the Commission presents, but it is important to see. I looked into it and found an O.C.D. report, the World Bank's report on the topic and almost the comparisons I read show that the fees collected from these funds from the Bulgarian funds are almost one of the highest in the world compared to other countries. Let me give you an example: in Austria, there is no fee on the contributions, and there is a half percent fee on all assets. The same situation is in a number of other countries. I can give you an example with the Czech Republic, although the data are from 2011 and may have undergone some changes, there is simply no next but again about 1% fee of all assets is rather an exception. I see it in Estonia, where it is 1.49%, but there is no fee on the contributions. None! Some countries such as the Czech Republic and Slovakia have introduced a fee on the yield, i.e. which has a yield, will have to pay such a fee that will not pay, which means a fee on the result, stimulates companies to achieve higher results. Whoever achieves a higher result will accordingly pay a higher fee. I am telling you all these things because the only case in which we can talk about fees as high as in Bulgaria, as an example of what I see in the OCD report is Turkey. Everywhere in other countries, the fees collected are lower. When these pension companies were set up, it may have made sense to maintain high fees to capitalise at the beginning. Now more than 10 years later, we must decisively reduce the fees collected from them, because if the competitive mechanisms do not work, it is an interesting question: why, if it is up to 5%, they all collect nearly 5% of the fee from the contributions? This is a very interesting question for you, colleagues. If competition in a given industry works and we as legislators have said and it is written in the Law that the fee is up to 5%, I ask you: why is everyone close to this limit if the competitive mechanism worked properly? So obviously a legal change is needed in order to reduce the fees. And I'll give you how it can be justified something that I don't see in the report. The justification is this: to go to the average level of fees for the European Union and to go there, to move to the average level of fees collected, we can reduce them almost half, because in Bulgaria the fees are about twice as high as the average fees collected in the European Union, so I will strongly support measures in this direction. Now the question is whether they should become gradual, whether there should be a reduction in a period of several years or whether we should approach more decisively? I know, in the project I read, which has prepared the Commission, it proposes the step-by-step version, year-to-year. I would recommend, fellow Members, the more decisive option with a rapid reduction in fees with the following arguments: for more than 10 years, we have given these funds the opportunity to collect some of the highest charges in the European Union. I think this period should end. People ask us questions for a reason: Why do we allow such a thing? This will also allow an increase in yield, because by taking 5% of the contribution itself and 1% of all assets each year, you realize that this has a direct negative impact on the yield of these funds. Finally, once again, to highlight the good work of fellow Members and to express hope that we will continue this way.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u89	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Any lines to the statement? There aren't any. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, and I will join you as a participant in the Commission, as a member of the Temporary Commission, in good assessments of the Commission's work, because it may indeed now sound to this House as an unnecessary eulogy, but I would like to remind you that the Commission has been set up and started working in a very difficult environment around pension funds, around companies, around pension insurance companies and the pension funds they manage. And if your situation now seems calm and consensual, the credit for this is also for the Commission's work, special thanks and congratulations, of course, to the President, Cornelia Ninova, who, according to all of us, managed to direct the Commission's work in a direction that would be useful to Parliament and the people for whom this Commission was made. In essence, however, I would like to remind you of some of the disputes and hot spots, the hot issues at the beginning of the establishment of this Temporary Commission, because we do not stop in particular, we do not focus on these things that I am about to say, but they are important. Firstly, it is your impression that the name and subject matter of the Commission are two types of interlinked companies, legal entities. On the one hand, pension insurance companies are and on the other, pension funds they manage are pension funds. And if the issue of fees concerns the work of pension insurance companies, the question, let's say, of the model, of the change and so on, concerns the accounts themselves, contributions, that is, the funds themselves. I stress this division because it is essential for how the report will be adopted, the legislative changes, and then the model. Fees can be reduced, can be reduced, but the mechanism needs to be found. What we are proposing and will propose with legislative changes is only one vision that the Financial Supervision Commission and the pension insurance companies themselves have united around. I think it is imperative to think about the model, as many accounts mean a broad basis on which fees are formed, but there are funds that do not have so much and the difference in management costs when a pension insurance company manages a fund of 1 million. 200,000 depositors or 200,000, it's not that big. At least not six times, so we need to think carefully about not really making uncompetitive pension insurance companies that are small for the system or beginners for the system in terms of the fees with which they form their budget and operate both the investment fee and the other fee. But basically, the opinion of all of us is that they need to be reduced. I would like to remind you that, before the creation of the Commission and at the beginning of its work, there was a very difficult dispute, not only on the regulatory framework, but also on the implementation, i.e. the body implementing it, the Financial Supervision Commission. I would remind you, I think it is important that there were persons in charge who literally wanted and argued that the Financial Supervision Commission did not apply the regulatory framework equally to everyone, that it was not strict. There were all kinds of charges. In the course of the work, I think it has become clear, and I would like to stress that we have not established such facts, on the contrary, we have found that the Financial Supervision Commission in general terms in cases where things are legislatively clear, from a regulatory point of view, has applied absolutely strictly strict laws and regulations on which it rests, i.e. those regulations which constitute the regulatory framework. Here it is good to say, because we made this conclusion in the course of the work, that the Commission's administrative acts and penal decrees are being appealed to the court, not before the Bulgarian Parliament, as a thesis and as a debate there was before and around the creation of the Commission, but also at the beginning of its work. The court is the one who is assessing what these acts are good, right, legal, illegal and so on, and we have established this fact, which is obvious, but there has been such a debate. The supervised entities will even go a little further and, in relation to some findings on the work of pension insurance companies, I would say that if we are to judge the work of a regulatory authority, it is better when supervised entities are not satisfied than when they are very satisfied, because if market entities are supposed to act only market, there is no need for regulators. If, by assumption, market entities, including pension insurance companies, use this definition as funds are managed by pensioners, if they were.. I will use a very resourceful definition given a year and a half ago by a manager of a large company in Bulgaria, a strange definition of law-abiding, you remember this word, if all market entities are legitimate, there is no need for regulators, there is no need for arbitrators. As are other market entities and not in all their actions are lawful, i.e. purely market-oriented. They must be corrected and punished in accordance with the laws when necessary. And there is an arbitrator above them who determines whether this is right or wrong, and this is the Bulgarian court. This is one of the findings that we have made in the Commission, and I would like to say in plenary that the regulator has done its job well, unlike other regulators, for which we cannot say the same. The other thing we have to say, and we owe it to both the Chamber and the Bulgarian citizens, is that the market operators in question must also draw their conclusions from this discussion in the Bulgarian society. Some of the colleagues said that. To think whether they are sufficiently informed their insured persons, whether they know all about their lots, their activities, investments, profits, losses and so on, because these insured persons are not fortified peasants of any company. On the contrary, the movement between companies, the movement from one company to another should be much more dynamic in order to talk about a competitive environment, and in this plan it was the decision of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms to support that legislative change. Perhaps it will awaken the market reflexes of the Bulgarian pension companies. Even if he did so, our decision to support this was sufficient. Both from the discussion and from the work of the Commission, I can, as a participant in this discussion and in the work of the Commission, find that these reflexes were awakened and they were asleep, believe me. Everyone thought that the persons who provided themselves to him were given to him once and for all, or those who did not claim and will be distributed with lots, this is also not a market mechanism. I agree that it may not be right to go directly to the National Insurance Institute, but what market is there in having lots?! We need to be careful in this system, obviously there are problems inside. The Commission has found some of them, is proposing solutions for some of them, but I hope that the majority and the government will finish this work because there is still much work on pension reform. To conclude, I would like to say that what we have put in the beginning, by investigating the financial situation, with the regulatory framework, with the supervision of the Financial Supervision Commission, is useful, in the right direction. If we accept the package of legislative proposals, if it is followed by the corresponding changes in the model that the government will present in the right direction, I think that at least this reform will be able to move a step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u91	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Is there a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I did not intend to replicate Mr. Tsonev, but I had to, in one part, in which I agree with most of his comments, but personally I have comments to the Financial Supervision Commission. During the debate in the Commission several times it became clear, and they themselves said that they needed administrative capacity, that they needed more money. This should tell us that, in fact, if someone needs administrative capacity, it means that he hasn't had it so far and that there are some gaps because of the lack of that administrative capacity. Also, the ZID we do in art. 114, 2013, 2014 this has happened. The Financial Supervision Commission should at least have signaled. This ZID could have been inserted in 2013 and this loophole could have been closed because they are the regulator, they monitor how the processes flow. They received the first signals from the funds that invested in CEZ that there was some problem, and it was the Commission's obligation to respond to these signals. The other Mr. Jalazov, who is in charge of pension funds, has not gone through the legal procedure of choice, and we note it in the report. He must be elected by the National Assembly, as by law, following a proposal from the President. That didn't happen. He fulfilled his duties for a year and a half without being legitimately elected for this position. This is also an omission of the President of the Commission, so I have comments to the Commission itself. And one last thing was presented to us during our meetings information about the checks carried out by the Financial Supervision Commission itself, but they were given to us as general figures. When we asked for information to be given how many checks have been carried out on each particular fund to see if there is a trend - if 400 checks have been carried out in one year and 300 of them are for a particular fund, it is worrying to me. I do not know if that is the case, because we were denied, based on current legislation, to give us this information. Are there any funds that haven't been checked? We could not understand, because this information was also denied us, so I personally have comments to the Financial Supervision Commission, and that is why it is my reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u93	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Second line? Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u94	Dear colleagues, because Mr. Tsonev tried to justify his vote and his parliamentary group, that if the young people who started a job did not choose a pension fund, he would go to the NSI for a service, he said it was a good idea because it would make them think about it. Mr. Tsonev, it's like parliament at some future moment to decide, who hasn't married in 20 years, to get him married in a professional capacity to think about it. That's what it sounds like. I hope you'll think about it, and that's why I'm addressing you. I know there hasn't been much time to think about it so far, but this is much more like nationalisation than free choice. Something that is private capital, which should be part of a capital building system, is going to the NSI, where there are no private funds, colleagues, is not a free choice. It's closer to the concept of nationalization, even though we don't have a complete match there. Also, if anyone ever goes and decides to transfer the lot to the NSI, that you can never come back, we can hardly explain it with the concept of free choice. I had no intention of taking the floor, but these things must be answered in order for the next moment, as I have set you an example, to take away other freedoms of citizens. Mr. Tsonev, it's the same as if you explicitly stated that you didn't want someone to change your name to someone else who can change your name depending on the specific situation. By the way, this has happened in Bulgarian history and has been a bad example of anti-democratic actions. Colleagues, for me, this is all a mistake that has been made by this National Assembly, and I hope that we all together, without going into personal conflicts, on the basis of a reasoned conversation, find a way to fix it. That is, as the choice will be free, to be able to go where you want to go is a free choice. Free movement in the European Union is to go wherever you want to go and come back. Let's make it a free choice here. You want an NOI, you like an NOI, you think there's no capital scheme, but it's the best, and you go there. You want to come back, you come back. Let's make free choice.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u95	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. I inform you that your speaking time is up, as well as the Reformation Block Group. Third line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Dimitrov, I don't have a duplicate for you, we're talking about the same thing about free movement not only between the individual market entities, but also between the individual pillars. By virtue of my years and experience, I am a participant in the creation of the capital pillar, Mr. Dimitrov, in all the legislation from his first day to today and I am a supporter of the capital pillar. However, the crisis in the capital market, in general what has been happening in the last seven years, shows that we must also open the door for a choice between the individual pillars. I agree with you that this should not be done in a compulsory manner and I hope that the changes will be in this direction. I don't have a line for you. I'm thinking the same thing. To my fellow Vice-President of the Commission, I have, and I will say that before I make my speech, I have been thinking what kind of speech to make: which will cause lines, or which will not cause them. I chose the latter, knowing that if I touched on the subject of the Financial Supervision Commission, there would be lines. Not that I agree that we do not have any notes that I myself have no notes to the work of the C.F.R., but I want to protect you from error because you are about to make it. The findings of weaknesses committed by the Financial Supervision Commission do not suggest that you should submit bills to change the structure in order to change and change mandates, because there is such a bill, there are such intentions. At the beginning, before the creation of the Commission, part of the objective was also this. I wanted to tell you clearly and categorically that an assessment of the work of the C.F.R.S. does not imply such an approach may suggest adjustments. You remember that it was also my proposal and support to pay attention to the President's exercise of his powers and to propose that the respective two positions be approved, chosen and so on. I agree here. Do not slide on what the Bulgarian Parliament should not do. The regulators should not be replaced in any replacement of the country's governance and the majority in the Bulgarian Parliament, unless there are blatant violations of their functions, as is found in another regulator, let's say. There are none here, so don't be tempted is my advice. You will face a very heavy resistance if you are tempted to change the structure to change the mandates.... and from the European Union you will meet such a resistance, and from the Bulgarian Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u97	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Before we move on to the next speech, honourable Members, give a round of applause for a group of seniors on the balcony. Guests from the town of Strazhitsa, Veliko Tarnovo District, from which I have also been selected. [[Applause.]] Here you are, Mr. Alexandrov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, although I am not a member of this Temporary Committee, I will give a brief opinion, which is also the opinion of our parliamentary group. It's more about the model, and maybe a lot of people, I don't know how much of the MPs understand what we're talking about. Currently, the net assets of pension companies account for 10% of the country's gross domestic product or just over 8 billion. lv. I'm not gonna go into political talk about how much the C.F.R. did her job, how much she didn't do and attack her for some political reason. I am more concerned about what will happen from now on after the legislative changes that will be proposed on the basis of the very investigation carried out by the Temporary Commission. There are a few things we need to make a note of. Currently, 5% of the money goes to UMF since 2007. Since 2017 it has become 7%. The model of the pension system, which we have repeatedly said should be, is that this second pillar should be state, to have one. In Section VII of the Commission there are precisely such changes in the pension model, or it is in the Silver Fund, where they are commented together with the Finance Minister, we all know, at the moment the Minister of Labour and Social Policy is having talks about changes in the pension system. For us, the money that's in the UFF must be a second pillar. There must be a state. Why? The answer is very simple. It is practically extremely difficult for the state to fall into bankruptcy. I'm not saying that this is the case with the UFF right now, but it's quite possible. Imagine, for 40 years you've been putting in money and asking yourself, what happens to a company from today after 40 years? Where will she be, how will she function? Do you know if it is not registered in an offshore area, whether the company itself will disappear and then look for its tracks, because only less than ten months ago we had this exact case in Bulgaria with another financial institution. It is for this reason that it is essential for us and that this money should be managed by the state. There is a proposal for the Silver Fund, however, which we absolutely cannot agree with. Why? First, if you move your lot there, we suggest that it can be inherited. According to the Finance Minister, this is not the case. I do not think that if someone has saved their entire life for a pension and did it in a private fund, to offer them exactly the same conditions in the state, that is, to have direct competition on absolutely all indicators, so that there can actually be a free movement of capital, as colleagues from the Reformation bloc suggested. Another question is how will the individual account itself be managed.. whether it will appear as an individual account or as figures. For us, the best model is the indication of an individual batch that everyone can track. The big problem is that really a large part of society does not know where his money is, what part that money is, what number of shares is, as it says in the extracts from the respective funds, what is their yield respectively. Here, my colleague Nastimir Ananiev said that he had asked a question to colleagues who could not answer where their money was in pension funds. Maybe 90% of society has this particular problem...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u99	Sixty.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u100	Is it sixty? Thanks for the adjustment. Sixty percent can't track them. So I think that with our proposal these 60% will know that at least they come into this hypothesis, that if they leave them in the country, they can only track them with the total flow that is currently functioning. Regarding the state, you may not now divorce the National Insurance Institute (NSI), always be connected to the NSI in the common flow, but if we do an individual one, it is also a transition to a pension system that is far better than the option offered to us. Someone might say, "You want to remove the privates." No, let's stay in the supplementary pension insurance as it's been functioning since 1994. Anyone with a good will can set aside more, go and set aside there. However, the main capital, which is also the large one, should function in the interest of the state and of society, and not know how it works at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u101	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Since it's time to rest, I suggest, because there's a registered man, Mr. Ademov, is there anyone else who would like to speak later? Mrs. Ninova wants it too. In that case, it is really best to declare a break. Before that, I would like to read you a message: Immediately after the announcement of a holiday in the Club of the National Representative will be opened exhibition "Varna" European Youth Capital 2017. A musical program will be presented by the Municipal Youth Complex of Varna. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. Colleagues, I'm announcing a 30-minute recess until 12.05. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u102	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our work on the draft decision. The next MP to sign up for a speech is National Representative Hasan Ademov. Mr. Ademov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Financial Supervision Commission! I would like to join the overwhelming opinion expressed here in the plenary on the positive assessment with regard to the Temporary Committee for the Study of the Financial Status of Pension Insurance Companies and the universal and professional pension funds they manage, as well as the regulatory framework. The benefit and good news of this Commission's activities is that this Commission's report, in general, the Commission's activities, answered a large part of the questions that arose in the public domain after the National Assembly's decision at the end of last year. Of course, this does not in any way cancel the need for private pension companies to continue with the information campaign, because the information campaign is the basis for the Bulgarian citizens provided to be able to make their informed choices and to be responsible for this choice. My fellow Members, I would like to stop your attention to a few questions. First of all, the issue of related persons is a topic which is one of the main topics in the report of the Temporary Commission. It is obvious that there is a need to expand the definition of related parties in order to prevent any possibility of investing in related parties, a practice which has, in individual cases, been used in the current development of our pension system. Next, I would like to say a few words about the notorious yield, which was the subject of an extremely serious discussion, there were conflicting opinions from both the Financial Supervision Commission and the Association of Extra Pension Insurance Companies. Both the Budget Commission and the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee had the opportunity to listen to the representatives of the Association of Private Pension Companies, the Financial Supervision Commission and thus to enable all interested parties to express their views, their considerations and to answer questions which were the subject of a broad public discussion. I dare say that these discussions were at the heart of these discussions and have created a prerequisite for the emergence and structuring of this Temporary Commission, whose report we are currently discussing. As far as profitability is concerned, it is obvious that the issue must be addressed by the well-known methodology and, in this sense, in the Commission report, there is a proposal within two months that the Association of Extra Pension Insurance Companies and the Financial Supervision Commission will finally come up with a single methodology that does not create conditions for diverging signals, as such signals are at the root of a loss of confidence in the activities of private pension companies, and there is no guarantee system that operates normally without the element of trust. It is obvious that this methodology must answer the question of whether we will define the real yield, whether we will define the nominal yield, or whether we will define both the real one and the nominal one, and that is already a question that needs to be resolved in the methodology. Diverse signals, of course, come from different approaches, from different methods. Some use the monetary weighted method and others stop at the time-weighted method and hence the difference in the final disclosed results. It is clear that as long as there is no clearance of these methods, these approaches, there will be no uniform assessment of the profitability of private pension companies. I'd like to say a few words about fees and deductions. My fellow Members, it makes a strange impression that the Commission in its report makes a proposal to inform the insured persons on a monthly basis and at the same time there is a proposal for a reduction of fees. You know, this information, if it has to be provided monthly, costs money, and the reduction of fees, I don't know how it will affect this activity, but it is a matter of judgment that needs to find its final answer in the discussions between interested parties. As far as the fees are concerned, the Financial Supervision Commission, private pension companies long ago, a few years ago, have proposed that this fee, these deductions be reduced by about 40%. This should not happen once, but in a certain time period, in order not to hinder the activities of pension insurance companies and the funds they manage. With regard to who and how should determine the relevant fees, there are actuarial estimates that are the ones who have to answer the question: what is the amount of the fee to be? Because the arbitrary reduction and increase in fees is by no means beneficial to insured persons. The reduction in fees, of course, leads to an increase in the funds provided in their individual accounts and hence to a higher yield, but if this makes it difficult for companies and their funds to operate, we must ask ourselves: how can they optimally carry out their activities? As regards the proposals made by the Commission in its report. It is obvious that these are part of the identified problems, the identified problems and the Commission in its report responds through the proposals for changes in legislation, but, honourable Members, there are other changes that have long been waiting for their turn. Within the framework of the Forty-first Parliament, the Financial Supervision Commission, respectively the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, proposed also the Labour and Social Policy Committee then adopted these proposals at first reading, but they failed to reach plenary and now they will again find no place in the package of measures that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy proposed yesterday to the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation and next week will enter for discussion in the Council of Ministers. Once again there is one gap and it is for objective reasons, because there is no way that changes in the accumulation phase and especially in the payout phase to be proposed without clarity regarding the third category retirement age and other categories. The questions are related and probably after the adoption of the package of measures by the National Assembly... this package, which the Minister of Labour and Social Policy proposes, should be dealt with with by a new bill... the proposals that are related to changes in the phase of accumulation, with the creation of guarantee funds, with the creation of the multi-fund system, the introduction of multi-funds and, of course, a comprehensive definition of the repayment phase. These are issues that have been on the focus of the Financial Supervision Commission, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for several years, but do not find political support. My opinion on this issue is that, as soon as the package of measures proposed by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy is adopted, we must proceed to consider these proposals, and they, as far as I have information, are more than 70 pages, so they require a serious discussion. To conclude, I would like to thank once again for what the Temporary Committee has done, for the report it is presenting to the National Assembly, because this report and this Temporary Commission have answered most of the expectations of the public and are a guarantee for a better awareness of those provided in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. For a further statement, the popular representative Cornelia Ninova had declared a wish. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u105	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members of the Temporary Commission. Dear colleagues, you have been professionals, you have worked extremely responsibly and with very striking deadlines. I think we did a good job. I don't share the position of the Patriotic Front, I don't understand it, all the more so it doesn't rest on facts. For example, the claim that we have not accounted for the costs of pension funds, but only the revenues, does not correspond to the truth, and you just an hour ago saw on the slides this information where there are revenues, costs and net results for each company separately. Of course, just because I don't share and I don't approve of that position doesn't mean I don't understand the differences. Let colleagues be of a different opinion, vote in their own opinion, but I still believe that we reached a high agreement in the Commission, went outside our party clothes in the name of those over 4 million Bulgarians who expected us to do work for them and to be informed. Honourable Members of the Commission, I ask that we do not relax until we see the legislative proposals adopted on behalf of the Commission. And since we have talked about them a lot, I would like to say very quickly, briefly, exactly what they are and what purpose we are pursuing with them. First, people's awareness and transparency. Until now, funds once a year by the end of March had to announce their income and fortune information. Our suggestion is that this happens every month until the 20th. Some of my colleagues say it's far-fetched. Yes, we will charge them with extra expenses, Mr. Ademov, let's discuss it and see. But our proposal, in order to be transparent, is for people to be informed every month about the state of their accounts. A second goal: to limit the risk of abuse and investing people's money in connected persons. We therefore offer you a very broad concept of related persons, based on the definition requested by us and received by the European Commission of related persons requested and received by us the opinion of the Financial Supervision Commission, requested and received by companies. We have made, I think, a sensible proposal that ensures that people's contributions will not be invested in connected persons. A third objective that we have set is to increase people's money by reducing the fees that their funds collect. Our specific proposal, colleagues, is as follows: instead of up to 5 percent, as it is now, the contribution of up to 4 percent in 2016; up to 3.5 percent in 2017; up to 3 percent in 2018. The investment fee is now up to 1%, to be up to 0,8 per cent for 2016; 0,7 per cent for 2017; 0,6 per cent for 2018. The transfer fee from fund to fund, which is now BGN 20, will be cancelled. We increase the requirements of the concepts of control by affecting control over funds. Finally, we have given the Financial Supervision Commission working group and the Agency two months to work out a single methodology. I cannot state here on behalf of the entire Commission, but I am allowing myself to tell them that if they fail within two months, I will take the legislative initiative to resolve this issue in a law and not in a regulation. I would suggest that I and my colleagues from our parliamentary group develop such a unified approach and a uniform methodology that we should probably write in the Social Security Code, but from now on we are waiting within a two-month period, first, for the C.F.R.S.R. and the Association to present their view of a single methodology. My fellow Members, in addition to having these proposals to accept them, there remains a great discussion on the pension model and on pension reform. This was not the subject of our Commission's work, you were not entrusted to us to do this work, but I still think that with what we have done, we have made a significant contribution to this discussion, which is to be made in the coming months, a significant contribution with information, with actuarial estimates, with numbers that will be of your attention and with the effects on the insured persons, especially on the amount of the current and future pensions, on the state budget and the budget of the NSI. I believe that with this we will contribute the next discussion on pension reform to rest again on facts, on arguments, on national agreement to a greater extent than on political differences. Once again, in the name of one goal, I say that today's and future pensioners should be guaranteed with higher pensions and that the state budget should be stable and calm as far as the pension system is concerned. Once again, thank you all for listening to us today. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u106	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the draft decision on the Temporary Commission's Activity Report to examine the financial situation of pensioners and their managed universal and professional pension funds and the implementation of the regulatory framework. The draft decision was presented to you by the Chair of the Temporary Commission "The National Representative Cornelia Ninova," and it is also visible on the screen in front of you. Please vote. Vote 117 MPs: 112, none, abstention 5. The decision has been adopted, the Commission report accordingly. [[Private applause.]] That's what we've done with work on this point. Please turn off the cameras and microphones of the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group You have the floor, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u107	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On May 14, 1925, the Bulgarian police arrested one of the biggest Bulgarian poets, the patriot of the Bulgarian modernism Geo Milev. It is known why the authorship of the poem and the position of the poet against the violent political repression after the murderous attack in the church is known. Sunday. Geo Milev's protest against the bloody quarrel with the world's first anti-fascist uprising, since 1923, is the real reason for the poet's detention. The basis is the Law on the Protection of the State, adopted by the Twenty - first National Assembly in early January 1924. One of the first acts of rising world fascism. Today, representatives of the ruling right-wing parties in our country are again importing repressive laws that are contrary to established principles of law. The remains of Geo Milev were discovered decades later in a mass grave near Sofia, recognized by the artificial eye, and its terrible end of wire strangulation is certified in the testimony of the gene. Ivan Valkov, the same Valkov, whose order was given a blow to the resistance of the most intelligent and honest part of our people, the same ones who are now being rehabilitated to erase the crimes of Bulgarian fascism. The death of Geo Milev is a symbol of the terror and darkness of the authorities, of a historical period when the Bulgarian poets paid violently their ideas in their fight for a socially fair society. It is no accident that the victims of Bulgarian fascism in 1925 became left-wing intellectuals, who recorded their names in our national culture and awe. "Geo Milev, Joseph Herbst, Hristo Yasenov, Sergei Rumyantsev, Georgi Sheytanov, Todor Strashimirov, Vasil Karagyov, Ivan Manev, Alexander Borimechkov, Nikola Ganev, Ana Maimunkova, Zeko Dimitrov, Dimitar Gruncharov, Hristo Kosovski, Temelko Nenkov, Nikolay Petrini and many others. In 1924 by the beginning of 1925, the Communist group disappeared not politically but physically in the National Assembly. They, like almost all left-wing farmers, were killed. On May 9, 2015, we celebrated the 70th anniversary of Victory Day, the end of the empire of German Nazism. Many Bulgarian citizens bowed down to the achievement of the millions of victims who gave their lives for the freedom of humanity. They paid tribute to the known and unknown warriors of the armies of the Soviet Union, the United States of America and Britain, who won the freedom of Europe and the world. But the Bulgarian Parliament did not recognise the case and contribution of the Bulgarian anti-fascists in this war. Today we must bow our heads to the memory of Geo Milev, who, in the first years of rising fascism, protected humanism and human dignity in the dust. Geo Milev and the thousands of victims of the regime in the bloody 1925 are categorical proof of the nature of Bulgarian fascism, whose cruelty and criminal nature is comparable to the cruelty and criminal nature of Italian fascism and German Nazism. Geo Milev's question: "It's wonderful: but what is Homeland? "................. is...................................................................... the situation of terror and war, economic and social and social security for many of our compatriots, extreme poverty and desperate poverty and despairing, and despairing between beneficiaries and outsides........................................................................................................................................... The answer to this question is also up to us, our will to cross hate, to stand against the social injustices and protect the interests of Bulgaria. This requires another motivation and state of mind that are lacking in today's policy requires a profound change and a sincere cause for modern generations....................a cause that springs from the heart and conscience, from the sense of justice and from the national community. The Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria and will continue to defend the truth and the ideas that Geo Milev left us in a brilliant way: On the bridge of the sky high without end With ropes and levers ♪ We'll bring down the blissful paradise ♪ Down ♪ On the sorrowful ♪ ♪ In bloody showers ♪ It's a landmark. Everything written by philosophers, poets, It's gonna come true! Without God! without a master! September will be May. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. We continue with the next item on the agenda: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO TAKE THE ACT OF THE ARCHIVER TO CONVENTION No 29 OF THE INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION OF THE TRUDA ON THE EMPLOYMENT AND RECOMMENDATION No 203 OF THE INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION OF THE TRUD ON THE PRESENTATION OF ADDITIONAL MEASURES FOR THE EFFECTIVE PROCEEDING OF THE EMPLOYMENT OF THE EMPLOYMENT. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 16 April 2015. With the report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, Mr. Hasan Ademov will introduce us to her chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on the adoption of a draft decision on the taking of an act Protocol to Convention No 29 of the International Labour Organisation on Forced Labour and Recommendation No 203 of the International Labour Organisation on the taking of additional measures to effectively counter forced labour, No 502-03-07, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 April 2015. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a regular meeting held on 29 April 2015 examined and discussed the draft decision to take an act from the Protocol to Convention No 29 of the International Labour Organisation on Forced Labour and Recommendation No 203 of the International Labour Organisation on taking additional measures to effectively counter forced labour. The meeting was attended by Lord Zornitsa Rusinova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Dimitar Manolov, President of KT Supporta, etc. The draft decision was presented by Mrs. Zornitsa Rusinova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. She stressed that during the meetings of the International Labour Conference in 2014, attention was paid to the fact that the ban on forced and compulsory labour was part of fundamental rights. Forced or compulsory work violates human rights and dignity, contributes to the preservation of poverty and hinders decent work. The texts of the Protocol to Convention No 29 of the International Labour Organisation contain certain proposals for overcoming the deficiencies in the application of the Convention itself. It is from 1930, with its provisions legally binding and can only be ratified by the countries that ratified the Convention. The purpose of this Protocol is to partially revise or supplement the texts of the Convention by introducing new mechanisms for compensation and policy-making obligations. Other measures not contained in Convention No 29 shall also be introduced. Under the provisions of the Protocol, Member States are required to develop national policies and action plan for effective and sustainable countering forced or compulsory labour, as well as to take concrete action against trafficking in human beings for the purposes of preventing forced and compulsory labour. The provisions of ILO Recommendation No 203 cover the same measures and policies that are laid down in the Protocol but are of a recommended nature. It is necessary for Member States to take preventive action to include respect, promotion and implementation of fundamental principles and rights of work, promotion of freedom of association and collective bargaining, anti-discrimination programmes and others. The Commission received the opinion of the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria. It states that both documents provide for preventive measures aimed at promoting freedom of association and collective bargaining in order to enable workers at risk to join workers' organisations. Mr. Dimitar Manolov took part in the discussion on the draft decision. He said that Bulgaria has long taken legislative and other measures regarding the application of Convention No 29. In this regard, it recalled that it was part of the arguments with which Construction troops and other types of structures outside the army were closed. He also said that it is hardly necessary to take any very special measures to implement this Convention. Members of the National Assembly agreed that taking an act is a procedure whose function consists in broad information and mobilization of public opinion to adopt more effective measures at national level corresponding to the relevant international documents. Such decisions enable the National Assembly to take into account ILO regulations in future work. The taking of an act which Parliament has done more than once does not give rise to legal obligations for national authorities relating to the application of the documents in question. However, the fact that, according to the provisions of the Protocol to Convention No 29 and Recommendation No 203 of the ILO, the Member States, as is the Republic of Bulgaria, are obliged to apply the international labour standards developed by the ILO. At the discretion of national parliaments and governments, national policies, plans and measures should be developed for prevention, protection and remedies such as compensation and rehabilitation in order to achieve quality opposition and termination of forced or compulsory labour. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 15 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support the draft decision on the taking of an act by the Protocol to Convention No 29 of the International Labour Organisation on Forced Labour and Recommendation No 203 of the International Labour Organisation on the taking of additional measures to effectively counter forced labour, No 502-03-07, submitted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u110	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. I do not see any other committees aimed at the draft decision. We are moving on to a speech and debate regime. Are there any who would like to speak on the subject? I don't see anyone who wants to. We're closing the debate. Before we go to the vote, I would like to read the decision itself: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the taking of an act of Protocol to Convention No 29 of the International Labour Organisation on Forced Labour and Recommendation No 203 of the International Labour Organisation on the taking of additional measures to effectively counter forced labour The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in accordance with art. 19th para. Article 5 (b) and (c) 19th para. 6 (b) of the Statute of the International Labour Organisation HAS DECIDED Takes an act from the Protocol to Convention No 29 of the International Labour Organisation on Forced Labour and Recommendation No 203 of the International Labour Organisation on the taking of additional measures to effectively counter forced labour adopted at the 103rd session of the International Labour Conference on 11 June 2014 in Geneva. The decision was adopted by the Forty-third National Assembly on 14 May 2015 and was sealed with the official seal of the National Assembly. Speaker of the National Assembly "Tsetska Tsacheva." This is the text of the decision that we are now going to vote on. Dear colleagues, please vote. 88 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. That's how the decision was adopted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN FOR LEGAL AID IN PRACTICAL CASES. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2015. With the report from the Committee on Legal Affairs, Mr. Chetin Kazak will introduce us. Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u111	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ Who... are you? ♪ on the first vote of the Draft Law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan on legal aid in criminal matters submitted by the Council of Ministers to 20 April 2015 At its meeting held on 29 April 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law on ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan for legal aid in criminal matters submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20.04.2015. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Silvia Filipova, Senior Expert at the International Legal Cooperation and European Affairs Directorate. The purpose of the Treaty signed on 14 November 2014 between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan for legal aid in criminal matters is to provide the necessary legal basis for the development of legal cooperation between the two countries and the possibility of more effective countering crime of a transnational nature. The contract shall determine which cases are deemed to be criminal, specify the types of legal aid which may be granted, the grounds for refusing and delaying the provision of legal aid, the central authorities of the parties and the arrangements for making contact between them, the languages in which the communication takes place between the parties and to which the applications for legal aid are transmitted, respectively, shall fulfil the legal aid applications; the costs of implementing the legal aid applications, as well as the arrangements for providing legal assistance and the content of the applications. Specific provisions are laid down for individual types of legal aid, as well as for the protection of witnesses, victims of crime and other participants in the criminal trial. It is explicitly provided that the Treaty is subject to ratification and enters into force on the 30th day following the exchange of ratification documents. An indefinite duration of the Treaty is envisaged and the possibility of unilateral termination of the Treaty, which occurs six months after the date of receipt of the written notification by the other Party by diplomatic means. Following a vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 10 votes for the European Parliament, without the opposition and 2 votes for abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan for legal aid in criminal matters submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u112	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. There is also a report from the Committee on Foreign Policy, to which the Bill has also been allocated. Mrs. Grozdanova, you're welcome to introduce him to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan for legal aid in criminal matters, No 502-02-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2015. The Law proposes the National Assembly to ratify the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan for legal aid in criminal matters, signed on 14 November 2014. The Treaty explicitly provides that it is subject to ratification and enters into force on the 30th day following the exchange of ratification documents. The aim is to provide the necessary legal basis for the development of legal cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan and for the more effective countering and combating crime of a transnational nature. The Treaty on legal aid in criminal matters governs the legal aid obligations by determining which cases are considered criminal for the purposes of the Treaty; they are listed: the types of legal aid which may be granted under the Treaty; the grounds for refusing and delaying the provision of legal aid; the procedure for making contact between the central authorities of the Parties, as well as the central authorities themselves (the Ministry of Justice for the Republic of Bulgaria and the General Prosecutor's Office for the Republic of Kazakhstan); the languages in which the communication between the Parties and to which they are transmitted shall be implemented respectively the legal aid applications; the costs for the implementation of legal aid applications, as well as the procedure for providing legal aid and the content of the applications. Special provisions are also provided for the individual types of legal aid.. Temporary transfer of persons detained or suffering punishment.. Deprived of liberty.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The contract also contains a provision on the protection of witnesses, victims of crimes and other participants in the criminal trial. The Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan is concluded for an indefinite period and each Party shall have the right to terminate it at any time after written notification by diplomatic means to the other Party. The termination shall enter into force within six months of the date of receipt of the relevant notification. At a regular meeting held on 29 April 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers. After hearing the reasons for the bill, a discussion and a vote was held, as a result of which, by 15 votes for the National Assembly, without the opposition and 2 votes for abstention, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposed to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to adopt the draft Law on ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan for legal aid in criminal matters submitted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. I don't see them taking the floor on behalf of the importer. I'm opening the debate on the proposed bill. You have the floor to speak. I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. Before we proceed to the vote on the proposed ratification, I will read you the text: THE LAW OF THE on ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and Republic of Kazakhstan for legal aid in criminal matters A single member. Ratifying the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, signed on 14 November 2014 Please, honourable Members, voting arrangements. Vote 74 MPs: for 73, against 1, no abstentions. The bill was passed at first reading. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u115	Thank you. Mr. President, honourable Members, since you have heard from both of the opinions of the parliamentary committees that the draft was supported unanimously, there were no speeches, it was supported almost unanimously in the plenary and as a former Chairman of the Friendship Group Bulgaria. Kazakhstan, with the approval of the current President Dr. Daniela Daritkova, I am making a procedural proposal for the subject of its second vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u116	A reverse opinion? I can't see. Moreover, there were no substantial debates and proposals at first reading. My fellow Members, I am voting on the procedure for shortening the time limit and voting at the time of the second reading of the proposed Draft. Please vote. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Now, please, let's vote at second reading. THE LAW OF THE on ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan on legal aid in criminal matters A single member. Ratifying the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, signed on 14 November 2014 Please vote. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The law was passed at second reading. Let's move on to point eight: LAW PROJECT FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN FOR EXTRADATION. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2015. I see the bill is assigned to two committees. There is a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mr. Kazak, today is your honor to present the report to the Legal Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u117	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Legal Affairs on a Draft Law on ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan for extradition, No 502-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2015. At its meeting held on 29 April 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Law on ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan on extradition submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2015. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Silvia Filipova, Senior Expert at the Directorate of International Legal Cooperation and European Affairs at the Ministry of Justice. The purpose of the Treaty signed on 14 November 2014 between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan on extradition is to provide the necessary legal basis for the development of legal cooperation between the two countries and the possibility of more effective countering transnational crime. The contract provides for an obligation to extradite persons present in the territory of the State concerned in order to attract criminal liability for crimes giving rise to extradition or execution of a sentence in connection with such crimes. The grounds for refusal are set out and a ban on the surrender of own nationals is also provided for. Where the requesting State provides for the death penalty for the offence for which extradition is sought, it is intended to be allowed only after sufficient guarantees are provided that the same will not be imposed or will not be fulfilled if it is already imposed. The central authorities of the Parties and the order of contact between them and the languages in which communication takes place shall be defined. The content of the extradition application and the accompanying documents as well as the questions concerning the detention of the person pending receipt of the application and the actual transmission of the requested person. Specific provisions on extradition shall be laid down, including an obligation to initiate criminal proceedings in the requested State in the event of refusal of extradition and application of the principle of peculiarity. It is explicitly provided that the contract is subject to ratification and enters into force on the 30th day following the exchange of ratification documents. An indefinite duration of the contract and the possibility of unilateral termination of the contract is envisaged, which occurs six months after the date of receipt of the written notification by the other Party by diplomatic means. After a vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 9 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and 2 votes, proposed to the National Assembly that the Law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan be passed on April 20, 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u118	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. The next report belongs to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Foreign Policy on a bill for ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan for extradition, No 502-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2015. The Law proposes the National Assembly to ratify the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan for extradition, signed on 14 November 2014. The Treaty explicitly provides that it is subject to ratification and enters into force on the 30th day following the exchange of ratification documents. It shall be concluded for an indefinite period and each Party shall have the right to terminate it at any time after written notification to the other Party by diplomatic means. The termination shall enter into force within six months of the date of receipt of the relevant notification. The extradition treaty provides for an obligation to extradite persons in their territories to attract criminal liability for crimes giving rise to extradition or execution of a sentence in connection with such crimes. The Treaty also lays down the grounds for refusal, including a ban on the surrender of own nationals. It is envisaged that in cases where the requesting State for the offence for which extradition is sought provides for the death penalty, extradition should be allowed only if sufficient guarantees are provided that the same will not be imposed or, if already imposed, it will not be fulfilled. The order of contact between the central authorities of the countries, the central authorities themselves (Ministry of Justice for the Republic of Bulgaria and the General Prosecutor's Office for the Republic of Kazakhstan) and the languages which the parties may use in their communication are also agreed. The content of the extradition application and the accompanying documents, the questions concerning the detention of the person pending receipt of the application and the actual transmission of the requested person shall be specified. In accordance with international standards in the area of extradition in the Treaty, the principle of peculiarity and the obligation to initiate criminal proceedings in the requested Party in the event of a refusal to extradite is laid down. At a regular meeting held on 29 April 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers. After hearing the reasons for the draft was held a discussion and a vote was held, as a result of which by 15 votes for the draft, without votes............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 85, para. 1, t. 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to adopt the Law on ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan for export.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u120	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. I'm opening the debate on the submitted bill. Excuse me, fellow Members, speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate and we're going to vote. We are voting on the Law on ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan on extradition at first reading. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kazak's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! On the same grounds on which I just made a procedure under the previous ratification bill, I am making a procedural proposal to move to the second vote of the Law on ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan for extradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u122	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. A reverse opinion? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the procedure for the admission of the Bill and at second reading. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please, Mr. Kazak, present the Second Reading Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u123	THE LAW OF THE on ratification of the Treaty between Republic of Bulgaria and Republic of Kazakhstan for extradition A single member. Ratifying the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan on Extradition, signed on 14 November 2014 in Sofia.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u124	Thank you. Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote at the second reading of the Law on ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan on extradition. Please, honourable Members, vote. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The bill was passed at second reading. We move to point nine of the National Assembly's weekly agenda: For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: We're moving on to reading the reports. I see that the proposed bill is assigned to three committees. First, let us hear the report from the Defence Committee. General Mihov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u125	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have a proposal to invite the Deputy Minister of Defence Kyumyrdzhiev to take part in the debates.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u126	Thank you. We are voting on the proposal of Gen. Mihov for admission in the hall of the Deputy Minister of Defence Mr. Kyumurdzhiev. Vote 75 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 1. The motion for admission has been accepted. Please invite the Deputy Minister of Defense to the Chamber. General Mihov, you have the opportunity to read the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u127	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Albania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Iceland, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the NATO Agency for Communication and Information (NCIA) on cooperation in the implementation of projects for the extension of the Air Command and Control System (ACCS), No 502-02-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers On 20 April 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) At a regular meeting held on 7 May 2015, the Defence Committee discussed a Draft for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Albania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Iceland, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the NATO Agency for Communications and Information (NCIA). 13 MPs took part in the meeting. The meeting was attended by: Defence Minister Nikolay Nenchev, Deputy Defence Minister Orhan Ismailov, political cabinet chief Iliya Nalbantov, Defence Chief Vice Admiral Rumen Nikolov and Deputy Defence Chief Lieutenant General Konstantin Popov. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Defence Orhan Ismailov. The Memorandum of Understanding was signed on 29 January 2015 by the Bulgarian side. The aim of the Memorandum is the cooperation between the NATO Communication and Information Agency (NCIA) and the host countries in the implementation of the projects for the extension of the Air Command and Control System (ACCS). The purpose of the Memorandum is to regulate the planning and implementation mechanisms for the projects to expand the Air Command and Control System between the NATO Communication and Information Agency and host countries in accordance with the provisions of the NATO Communications and Information Organisation (NCIO). According to the Memorandum, the NATO Communications and Information Agency performs the function of a project manager, an acquisition agent, a system integration agent and, if necessary, the functions of a delegated quality assurance body on behalf of the host countries. Cooperation between the Parties shall be agreed on the full planning and implementation of projects from the preparation of an invitation to participate in an international tender until a Certificate of Final Financial Adoption is issued in accordance with the Regulations of the Alliance. As a party to the Memorandum, the Republic of Bulgaria will bear the costs of the supplies and services related to the site carried out by NCIA as well as a share of the costs of NCIA as an acquisition agent for assuming the responsibilities specified in the Memorandum. The amount of funds needed to implement the planned activities is based on a common share of shared expenditure of 75 per cent under the NATO Security Investment Programme and national funds of 25 per cent. It is written in the Memorandum that for the Bulgarian country the same shall enter into force from the date of finalization of the necessary internal legal procedures, about which the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria will notify the NATO Communications and Information Agency in writing. The reasons for the ratification of the Memorandum by the National Assembly are as follows. First, if taxes, duties or similar charges are imposed, they shall be borne by the Host Party in which they are charged over the shared costs of the project. Secondly, the Memorandum provides for an arbitration settlement of disputes arising from its implementation. Due to the fact that the Republic of Bulgaria assumes financial obligations as a host country and provides for arbitration settlement of disputes on the grounds of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 et c. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria requires the Memorandum to be ratified by the National Assembly. In the discussion of the Bill took part the MPs Angel Naydenov and the President of the Commission. The representatives of the Defence Headquarters took part in the discussions. After hearing the reasons and discussing the bill, 13 MPs took part in the vote. By 13 votes, the Defence Committee unanimously adopted the following ?? RESPONSIBILITY: Asks the National Assembly to adopt, at first vote, a bill for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Albania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Iceland, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the NATO Agency for Communications and Information (NCIA) on cooperation in the implementation of projects for the extension of the Air Command and Control System (ACCS), No 502-02-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2015 I proposed the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u128	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. We are moving on to the next report on the submitted Law on Legal Affairs. [[Noise and lines.]] I see that today it is difficult to decide who is to represent the Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill for ratification of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Albania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Iceland, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the NATO Agency for Communication and Information (NCIA) on cooperation in the implementation of projects for the extension of the Air Command and Control System (ACCS), No 502-02-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2015. At its meeting held on 29 April 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft for the ratification of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Albania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Iceland, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the NATO Agency for Communications and Information (NCIA) on cooperation in the implementation of projects for the extension of the Air Command and Control System (ACCS), No 502-02-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2015. The meeting was attended by Iliya Nalbantov, Head of the political cabinet of the Minister of Defence, and Mrs. Polina Tsokova, expert at the Legal and Normal Activities Directorate. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Iliya Nalbantov. The Memorandum provides for cooperation between the NATO Agency for Communications and Information and host countries in the implementation of projects to expand the Air Command and Control System. The Memorandum was signed on 29 January 2015 and is subject to joint financing by the Member States, with the amount of funds necessary for the implementation of the envisaged activities being based on a common share of shared expenditure of 75 per cent under the NATO Security Investment Programme and national funds of 25 per cent. The reasons for the ratification of the Memorandum by the National Assembly are the need for exemption in the event of the imposition of tax, excise or other similar levies, as well as the arbitration settlement of disputes in relation to its implementation. Following the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. The next report belongs to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Foreign Policy on the ratification bill, No 502-02-12 of The Memorandum of Understanding between Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Albania, Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, The Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Iceland, The Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, The Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, Romania's Ministry of National Defence, Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic, The Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and NATO Communications and Information Agency (NCIA) on cooperation in the implementation of projects extension of the Air Command and Control System (ACCS) signed on 29 January 2015 in Brussels, submitted by Council of Ministers on 20 April 2015 The reasons for the bill were presented by the Deputy Minister of Defence Dimitar Kyumurdzhiev. The aim of the Memorandum is cooperation between the NATO Agency for Communications and Information and host countries in the implementation of the projects for the extension of the Air Command and Control System. The North Atlantic Council has approved a supplement to extend the Air Command System and control from an ASBE-based capability package (a component based on the Air Command and Control System software). The purpose of the Memorandum is to regulate the planning and implementation mechanisms for the projects to expand the Air Command and Control System between the NATO Agency for Communications and Information and host countries in accordance with the provisions of the NATO Organisation for Communications and Information Statute. According to the Memorandum, the NATO Communications and Information Agency performs the function of a project manager, an acquisition agent, a system integration agent and, if necessary, a delegated quality assurance body on behalf of the host countries. Cooperation shall include various activities during the planning and implementation of projects from preparation of an invitation to participate in NATO's international tender until a NATO Joint Adoptive Commission and issuing a Certificate of Final Financial Adoption, in accordance with the Alliance's regulations. As a party to the Memorandum, the Republic of Bulgaria will bear the costs of supplies and services related to the NATO Communications and Information Agency and a share of the costs of the NATO Communication and Information Agency as an Asset for Acquiring the responsibilities set out in the Memorandum. The amount of funds needed to implement the planned activities is based on a total share of shared expenditure of 75% under the NATO Security Investment Programme and national funds of 25%. For the Bulgarian country, the Memorandum shall enter into force from the date of finalization of the necessary internal legal procedures, about which the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria will notify the NATO Agency in writing for Communications and Information. Until then, the signed Memorandum will be applied temporarily by the Bulgarian side from the date of its signature. The Memorandum contains provisions for the taking-up of financial obligations by the Host Party in the event that taxes, duties or similar levies are imposed. The Memorandum also provides for an arbitration settlement of disputes arising from its implementation. This requires ratification by the National Assembly. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 17 votes for.................................................................................................. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to ratify by law the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Albania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Iceland, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the NATO Agency for Communication and Information (NCIA) on cooperation in the implementation of projects for the extension of the Air Command and Control System (ACCS), signed on 29 January 2015 in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u132	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. I am opening the debates on the proposed Memorandum Bill. Please, are there anyone who would like to make a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, you know the opinion of Mr. Ataka on the issue of the deployment of this NATO communication centre in Bulgaria. We will vote against it, and I will tell you why we will vote against it. As we can see, about 25% of the costs to be incurred for buying the equipment for this communication centre should be made by the Republic of Bulgaria. The amount is around 6 million. lv. I want to ask you a question because it is constantly said that there was no money for the Bulgarian army, no money for purchase of shoes for the Bulgarian servicemen, no money for buying ammunition for training by the Bulgarian army. We see what's happening at the Ministry of Defense right now. Some cuts are being made, about 400 people will be cut because we don't have the money to pay them salaries. We have no money to buy shells for the tanks that are in the Bulgarian Army because there is still no money. There was no money in the Bulgarian Army to buy rockets for the Navy because there was still no money. But by chance, you see, Bulgaria has the money 6 million. BGN, to buy the technique that will be used in this communication center. And I ask here: was there even a competition for which firm to bring this technique? I seriously doubt there was a contest for this. What was the role of this communication centre for interoperability between the Bulgarian Air Force and the air defense of the other member states of the Alliance. Well, I'm asking you: do we have air defense in Bulgaria, do we have air force? We have to tell each other the truth, no, we don't! [[Noise and lines.]] And now, just when we are talking that by June we can land this term, as used by the Minister of Defense Mr. Nenchev, that we could land the Bulgarian aviation because we don't have the money to make repairs for it, but, you see, we have some 6 million that we just like to like and give to our so-called natovski partners. For ten years we saw that day at the parade that we had ten buses left to carry the Bulgarian military and a helicopter that wanted to bring it down. The next military parades will most likely be kites that brought us NATO. This is what we have seen from NATO and this has been as a whole, apart from all the billions we have spent on our membership in the Alliance. lv. for missions outside the territory of Bulgaria and as membership imports into the Alliance. Now let's give another 6 million, while the real condition in the Bulgarian army is at the critical minimum, and everyone says: "There is no money! There's no money! There's no money! That is the only thing that repeats how there was no money. Come on, this 6 million, instead of spending it on this communication center, to which the function is ultimately clear from it will command air force, anti-air defense, will not talk there, just to play soldiers, come on, these 6 million don't give it there, but give it to the Bulgarian soldier who is currently walking with broken boots. I don't know how we're not ashamed, given that the Bulgarian soldier is one of the most humiliated right now in all of Europe, so we can spend some millions lightly?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u134	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. - What's the line? I don't see anyone asking for a line. Mr. Karadjov, you'd like a statement, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u135	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, attempts to instill that a humane centre or centre of NATO Headquarters in Bulgaria is being built are not from today, but today is their continuation. In order to bring some clarity, especially to the colleagues of Ataka, who like to distort the truth about these issues, I will make it clear that it is an extension of the Air Command and Control System. We are talking about an existing system or even simpler in Bulgarian. Since you are asking how the choice of the contractor company is happening, we, as a country, are giving up the right to the NATO system and to their public procurement system, which may be the best in the world to become the choice of this software by its rules. They bear 75% of the costs and only 25% are for the Bulgarian side. Attempts to suggest that almost because of the upgrade of this software and because of the increase of the combat capacity of our Air Force the Bulgarian soldier will walk with torn boots are extremely inappropriate, I would say that they harm the image of the Bulgarian army, harm the image of the Bulgarian professional soldier. Those political forces who are trying to insinuate such false claims not only cannot rank among the patriots, but rather are forces that act destructively against the country's military readiness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u136	Thank you for your speech, Mr. Karadjov. - What's the line? Mr. Todorov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u137	Dear colleagues, yes, only 25% takes over Bulgaria, with 25% being only 6 million. lv. Another money thrown to the wind. When it comes to patriotism, I can't understand how you have eyes to talk about patriotism? It is you who have ruled Bulgaria 25 years after each other that you have turned and brought the state to today's humiliating position where our Armed Forces number 24,000 people less than they were after the signing of the humiliating New York Treaty. [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]] You talking to me today about patriotism is, to put it mildly, hypocritical. We're talking air command and control. [[Heckling]] That's what we're talking about, Air Command and Control. While Mr. Nanchev the Minister of Defence says that Bulgaria has no money to repair the engines of MiG-29 aircraft that are available to the Air Force at the same time as we have no money to repair, however, we have 6 million to spend on our western friends. Another $6 million! I believe that telling the truth about the real state of the Bulgarian Armed Forces, so-called by you "army" is not an army, I must correct you, this is a corps.. is not a lack of patriotism. The truth is that, unfortunately, in the last 25 years, all you have managed have done everything possible in Bulgaria not to have adequate Armed Forces capable of defending the territorial integrity of the country, unfortunately. Thank you. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u138	Second line of Mr. Karadjov's statement? I can't see. Mr. Karadjov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u139	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We are again witnessing the draft decision of the National Assembly as the devil reads the Gospel or if I have to rephrase the vocabulary of colleagues who are most active on this issue, perhaps as Muhammad would read the entire Bible. [[Heckling]] When there is a solution to expand the Air Command System, we have to say that this is our air command system. This is the Bulgarian air command system. Its improvement is not only the duty of parliament, it is really the duty of all the rulers. Yes, Bulgaria does not have 35 million to repair a MiG engine, because for the double amount it could buy a brand new plane. [[Replying and shouting from DPS.]] Mr. Chairman, if you'd like to bring order.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u140	Please continue without interacting with people in the room. [[Replying and shouting from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u141	Should we wait for you to calm down?! [[Replying and shouting from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u142	Please be quiet in the hall! Mr. Karadjov, continue. [[Reply from MP Hussein Hafuzov.]] Mr. Karadjov, please continue! [[Replying, noise, voice from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u143	In order to graduate, if we want to be true patriots and not to line up in the ranks of the false patriots, we should all unanimously support this decision and increase the combat readiness of our Bulgarian aviation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u144	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Here you go, Mr. Hafuzov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u145	Mr President, honourable Members, we have just witnessed an extremely acute provocation. If you have not felt it, I must remind you that in the National Assembly there should be extremely serious things to say. Laws are passed, they are discussed, but attacks, accusations or such incitement as you do, Mr. Karadjov, are inadmissible. That's how conflicts and problems start. In this way you create fear and tension, and then we wonder how to put out, then we wonder how to apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u146	Thank you, Mr. Hafuzov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u147	Please apologize because you insult the prophet of one and a half million Bulgarian citizens! Muhammad didn't read the Koran either because he didn't know how to read. Muhammad was quoting the Qur'an by heart. To compare Muhammad with Satan because you know the phraseogram very well, you know very well that the Bible is read by faithful, by people who truly respect religion, and to claim that, respectively, as Muhammad would read the Bible, comparing it to Satan, who reads the Bible, is very offensive.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u148	Mr. Hafuzov, we understand your thesis.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u149	Just because you understand my point doesn't make me feel any better, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u151	A million and a half Bulgarian Muslim citizens are often offended by this tribune. [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u152	Mr. Hafuzov, I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u153	If we are the National Assembly and I represent a part of this people, I want an apology for what I just heard about our sanctuary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u154	Mr. Hafuzov, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u155	Muhammad is a prophet of Muslims and I want an apology on behalf of all Bulgarian citizens who profess Islam in the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u156	Mr. Hafuzov, thank you. I wouldn't know every word any speaker would say that follows. I take note of what you say. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to respect, after all, some diplomacy, to respect the people's feelings and understandings. Thank you. Any further comments? Go ahead, Mr. Bayraktarov. [[Relations between MP Grozdan Karadzhov and MPs from DPS. Revelations from the DPS. People's representative Mustafa Karadaye is leaving the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u157	Mr. Chairman, I'm taking the lead procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u158	Please consider the remark I made!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u159	I strongly object that not only should you make a remark, but in such cases you should simply turn off the microphone. After all, this isn't a prayer home, and here someone starts playing on a religious map. Moreover, Mr. Karadjov has said nothing more than that he used a metaphor, which is normal in parliamentary practice.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u160	What's your procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u161	My procedure is in the future for such gentlemen as Aytosco to exclude them and not allow them to speak in such a way.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u162	Thank you. [[Replying and shouting.]] Statements? [[National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov exchanged lines with MPs from DPS.]] Please take your seats! Mr. Bayraktarov, take your place! Order, please! We have a bill we're discussing right now. Stick to the subject! You have the floor, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I call on us to return to the subject because we have gone from something good to Bulgaria's anti-aircraft defence, to our successful cooperation with other NATO countries, from all over Europe, especially from the region, and we have come to things that are quite far from the subject. I personally regret the emotions inside the Chamber, but I still want to bring the debate back to the point we are discussing. Please let's not take anything seriously about the cocks, the boots and so on. It's not that they don't stand on the agenda, like the batteries and the shells and the engines of the planes and so on. However, it is clear to all of us that the thesis is not eaten. It was proven long ago that asphalt also brings good nutrition to the Bulgarians. It is the same now with this ratification, which we must vote on, because in practice the Bulgarian army increases its abilities extremely and in response to the treaty that we have signed for obtaining competences in our cooperation with NATO. Here I want to tell you very well and, if you accept, professionally, no one denies the qualities of Russian weapons, fighting equipment and ammunition. However, for more than ten years Bulgaria has been a NATO member and for this reason it is not a question of whether to compare Russian and NATO weapons and which to choose us or should we strive for full, not only operational, but tactical and combat compatibility with our NATO colleagues. Therefore, these $6 million are essential to gain a gift from the remaining 18 million, or they are a little more. Because you must realize that such gifts are made in mutual interest. It's not about whether or not we can reroute that $6 million and what we're going to do with it. The figure looks huge, especially if we calculate it in left hand on the current rate of the dollar, you'll say 10 million is an awful lot of money. Yeah, a hell of a lot of money, including the army. However, with a budget of about 1 billion, realize that this is about 1%, which will, however, increase us in many percentages of compatibility on one of the main topics that we must carry out with NATO. This is our operational, tactical and combat compatibility with regard to air control and the safety of our airspace. Here we have direct dependence on the engines of the planes. I am sorry that my colleague from Ataka. I can see that it will happen now, I can also say his name, whether it will be for a reply or for a personal explanation, it does not matter, but he is in the Commission and he knows very well that we are looking for an intensive solution and that we have almost found it and that our aviation will not be grounded and that the Bulgarian national honor and so on will not be humiliated. On the contrary, Bulgarian military, Bulgarian aviators are doing very well in extremely difficult conditions, as by the way, and all sectors of our economy and in general our entire social, social and economic lives. But those are the conditions, and we continue to act. Colleagues, I think I've convinced you. Let us safely vote on this ratification because, like everything else related to Bulgaria's national security, it will be good as a sign not to be accepted by majority, but to be adopted by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u164	Thank you. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u165	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! Mr. Toshev, I love it very much when someone tries to manipulate from this tribune using the phrase "operative compatibility." Yes, Bulgaria is a member of NATO and that is why we should have some interoperability with technology and armaments. I want to ask you: is Poland a member of NATO? He's a member, yeah! I will tell you only part of Poland's armed forces: 31 MiG-29 fighters; 32 Su-22 fighters; 10 My-14 combat helicopters; MI-2 helicopters, Mi-8, Mi-17. Poland's ground forces have about 250 tanks of T-72. The same is the situation in neighbouring Romania, whose armaments to this day have Russian equipment. It is also the situation in Croatia, in Slovakia, in Slovenia. All these countries are NATO members and still do not remove their Soviet equipment from their weapons simply because there is no point in giving millions, now just throwing it away or giving it to someone. Please, let's not fool people with that phrase, because there is no such thing. How are the Polish Air Force (Air Force) compatible with NATO, how are Romanians compatible with NATO, right? When we talk that the Bulgarian aviators cope with yes, bow before them, they cope, but what do they cope with? On the two planes they have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u166	Thank you. Second line? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u167	Dear colleagues, I am pleased to debate with my colleague Todorov, but I would like to go deeper. Especially for airplanes we still can't release one frequency to manage our normal speed trains for the simple reason that in all devices I'm talking about anti-missile complexes and aircraft, and helicopters of any type that somehow have to connect to their command post. There's a system called yours - a foreign system. I am a zenite rocket scientist, and I can tell you that this particular system of Russian or Soviet fighting technique, if we go back a little bit to the real dimensions of things, it is impossible to replace it with NATO, because it is the most secret thing in any apparatus. I, as an officer of missile troops, can tell you that I knew everything else, including the frequencies on which the various radar systems or radar stations worked according to Russian standards and by name, did not know anything about the system. Only the principle of work is known and nothing more. These codes changed every 24 hours and were ordered by the command of the Warsaw Treaty. We didn't know anything about them. With regard to the quoted data on the Polish army, I would like to tell you that in Poland, I am speaking and I can tell you in tanks, in infantry fighting machines, I can tell you on the anti-missile complex, aircraft and so on, the percentage of Russian or Soviet weapons against the Bulgarian army is slightly more than twice lower than we are. So let's not quote absolute numbers, let's talk in ratios. I agree, but in terms of operational, there are three levels of compatibility: - strategically, which we have already achieved with the signing of the treaty; - Operational. This means that officers and headquarters can speak the same language and understand each other. I'm not talking about English, I'm talking about professional language; - Tactically this means that when we put a platoon, a company or a battalion of Bulgarian soldiers with Turkish, German and so on, they can act together. That's it, or else it's just bullshit and I'm not manipulating anyone. Here we give 6 million and we win 18, but I'm still telling you that we're gaining the ability that we signed ten years ago and we haven't achieved it yet. Fifty-five competences must be achieved with the Warsaw Treaty, we have less than 20 so far. With what we are about to ratify, they become one on top. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u168	Thank you. You're welcome to join us in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we have just witnessed an ugly act in my opinion. Mr. Chairman, I first address you and then to my colleagues in the National Assembly, personally and to Mr. Tsvetanov. Anyone who ignores that fact agrees with that thing, I think. My appeal and my request is to react to that kind of behavior of each and every one of us, including me. Another question is that I will never afford it, but if I do or have such a behavior or attitude towards religion and others, not only to my own religion, it would be right for everyone in this room to condemn my conduct. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u170	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. In fact, there was already a comment to me in the manner of conduct. I don't know, it's a matter of personal position and morality that everyone has to express their views freely. What I have done is that I have made a remark to Mr. Karadjov, and, on the other hand, I really call on everyone to observe, however, some frameworks to be at the level of the National Assembly. We're moving on. Mr. Minister, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u171	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to give a few explanations in view of the proposed by the Council of Ministers draft decision and approval of the Memorandum. First of all, I would like to make it clear that the provision of this element is the provision of an element to the software which will be used by the Bulgarian Air Force in their relation with NATO's anti-aircraft defence. In this case, I would also like to clarify what the people's representative Mr. Todorov says that the software in question has nothing to do with it and will not be used by creations on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, a headquarters element for coordination of NATO forces, which will be introduced on the basis of the plan of readiness adopted by the meeting in Wales. This software will not be used by this staff element, which will be in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Secondly, I would like to emphasise that Bulgaria is the last country of the NATO member states, of the new NATO member states that are in the process of joining the Pact, which ratified this Memorandum. It's about a Memorandum of Software Accession, not about building some new system. In addition, it is about the implementation of the rules of procurment, of NATO public procurement. Bulgaria will participate with part of the value of this software, most of which will be from the NATO common fund. And I would finally like to say that the Memorandum is standard, it is signed by the other member states, notice, by member states that have joined the last waves of accession. The old NATO member states have this software. In order to be fully compatible and with the requirements of our North Atlantic partners, it is necessary that this software be introduced as quickly as possible. I would like to stress that the decision to introduce this software is from 29 August 2012. That is, during these three years discussions have been carried out and now the time has come with regard to the changed security environment for the country's rapid adaptation to the requirements of the North Atlantic Pact systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u172	Thank you. Since the time to discuss the bill is over... Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u173	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose that we extend the time to vote on this point. 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u174	A counteroffer? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the proposal to extend the time to vote on this. 9. Vote 98 MPs: 94, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Come in for a speech, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, I call on you to support our proposed Memorandum of Understanding not only because of the importance that experts from the Ministry of Defence highlighted for our air command and control system, but also the direction that is the only one for Bulgaria to synchronise NATO standards and more or less distance from dependence on Russian weapons. Honourable Members, I specifically address the GERB Parliamentary Group: please explain to your colleagues from the Reformation Block and the Patriotic Front what NATO is. NATO is not just a military organization! NATO is, above all, a political organisation that protects peace and security, mainly by promoting democratic values. And the greatest security for NATO is not the weapons, colleagues, but the internal peace with which some Members here in this House allow themselves to play. I call you to humility! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u176	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u177	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I don't know what peace or security is protecting NATO! We see the values of NATO, and we at Ataka do not accept these values. Is it worth going to Iraq to kill 1 million people and 500,000 children? Is that a value? Is it worth bombing churches and schools, hospitals in Yugoslavia? Is this the value of NATO? Is it worth going to Libya and bombing and killing to get the oil? Those are the values? We don't accept these values. Now I hear from you how important and urgent it was to make this Command Center because, you know, without this Command Center the Air Force in Bulgaria remained at zero. Well, how did we survive 10 years without this Command Center, I don't understand? How did we survive 10 years without having this center, tell me? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u178	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. Quiet, please! Second line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. He's getting very nervous. We went far, you forced me to speak too. Why do you have a siren in the village? From morning to night she you? Or does it ever serve if the population is to be announced that there is a disaster, an accident and it stands for that purpose? Why do you have wire? 112? If you happen to look for a hospital, a doctor, a security guard, a fire department, call them. It's not said you have to call them all the time. Doesn't Moscow and Washington have a red phone between them? It's not exactly a phone, it's a teletype system that transmits messages, but what does it serve? In order to fight with each other or in case they need to announce themselves: a computer error, a missile error, something happened, do not declare a war, a last chance to prevent any conflict. Perhaps we should remove all these possibilities? During the Warsaw Treaty Bulgaria had communication with Russia. I want to assure you that this communication continues to work. It's in Object 100, it's in Boyana, it's in PSD, it's in Zelenka, Kaliakra's still pumping air compressors into the cable down under the Black Sea, because you might ever have to work this cable and not be lost. Do we have to cut that cable? No, and no one cut him. What is now the new solution? One RVD, only that military aircraft are passing over the country, there are announcements, transponders reported, they are on request. Emergency flights are, of course, made public in one other order, but there are also military planes, they have to go through urgently and in order not to have this waiting, this two-week warning, is being done by the ATC. It's an emergency flight service. It's an emergency flight. If it has to fly an armed plane, we have to bring it down, we have to stop it or find out what it is and that it's flying for a completely different purpose. We can't protect ourselves, aviation's bad. What if we have to call a plane? Shouldn't he be able to do it, to provide some help? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So this RVD will solve our security issues, solve our problem while we're repairing our planes, so there'll be someone to protect us if necessary. It wouldn't hurt in any way. Just as it does no harm to the red phone Moscow, Washington, as it does no harm to the red phone Bojana, Moscow, so it will not harm this one from this centre to NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u180	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Would you like a third line? Mr. Anastasov, the back? [[Noise and lines.]] Thank you. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Please, honourable Members, we are voting at first reading the Memorandum ratification bill. We all know which countries it is, there is no need to be read again. Please vote. They voted 106 MPs: 99, against 4, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Mr. Mihov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u181	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At the risk of grieving you, I have learned from the whole discussion that more and more our barracks are missing and I have learned a lot from the details. [[Radio.]] In relation to the fact that we are the last country to ratify this Bill, and on the basis of the reports of the three committees, as well as on the basis of the speeches, where no proposals for amendment and supplement of the Bill were made, on the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of our Rules, I propose that, within this sitting, we put to the second vote Draft No 502-02-12.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u182	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. A counteroffer? I can't see. I put to the vote the procedure for admission to a second vote of the Law on the ratification of the Memorandum between the above-mentioned countries. Please, honourable Members, vote. Vote 110 MPs: for 103, against 6, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please present the Second Voting Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u183	Dear colleagues! THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Albania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Iceland, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the NATO Agency for Communication and Information (NCIA) on cooperation in the implementation of projects for the extension of the Air Command and Control System (ACCS). A single member. The Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Albania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Iceland, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the NATO Agency for Communication and Information (NCIA) on cooperation in the implementation of projects for the extension of the Air Command and Control System (ACCS), signed on 29 January 2015 in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u184	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Dear colleagues, debate regime. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate and we're going to vote. We are voting at second reading the Law on ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the ministries of the countries listed just now. Please, honourable Members, voting arrangements.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and to you ladies and gentlemen, for a successful end to this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-14.u186	Before that I have to announce the result, Mr. Mihov, to thank you. Please call off the vote. Vote 109 MPs: 103, against 5, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Before I announce the end of the meeting, announcements for the meeting tomorrow, 15 May 2015, Friday, which begins at 9:00 p.m. and all day is for Parliamentary control. Due to prior commitments, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov will respond at 11:00. 1. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov will answer a question from the National Representative Volen Siderov and a question from the National Representative Maya Manolova. 2. Tourism Minister Nikolina Angelkova will answer three questions from the MPs Desislav Chukolov, Krasimir Jankov and Miglena Alexandrova. 3. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer three questions from the MPs Jayhan Ibryamov, Lyubomir Vladimirov and Willi Lilkov. 4. The Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski will answer six questions from the MPs Petar Kanev, Lubomir Vladimirov, Ivan Penkov Ivanov, Maya Manolova, Volen Siderov and Slavi Binev. 5. The Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer fifteen questions from the MPs Devdet Chakarov two questions, Jayhan Ibryamov, Vladimir Toshev seven questions, Boyka Marinska and Dimitar Shishkov, Nikolay Alexandrov, Georgi Kadiev, Sultanka Petrova and Slavcho Atanasov and one question from the National Representative Maya Manolova. 6. The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev will answer eight questions from the MPs Kalina Balabanova, Borislav Iglev, Mariana Boyadjieva and Stoyan Mirchev, Dora Yankova, Villas Lilkov, Cornelia Marinova, two questions, Georgi Turnovalyanski, Valeri Zablyanov and Mariana Boyadjieva and two questions from the MPs Boyka Marinska and Svetla Bachvarova, Mariana Boyadjieva, Valeri Zablyanov and Georgi Tarnovaliyski. 7. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer seven questions from the MPs Slavcho Atanasov, Slavi Binev, Georgi Svilenski, Georgi Svilenski, Zhelyo Boychev and Stoyan Mirchev, Miho Mihov, Martin Dimitrov and Petar Kadiev. 8. The Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov will answer two questions from the MPs Maya Manolova, Vili Lilkov and one question from the MPs Chavdar Georgiev and Filip Popov. 9. The Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov will answer eight questions from the MPs Willi Lilkov Two questions, Nikolay Alexandrov, Krasimir Yankov, Martin Dimitrov Two questions, and Stefan Kenov Two questions. 10. The Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov will answer a question from the MP Boris Yachev. I specify that the sitting starts tomorrow with Parliamentary Control at 9:00 a.m. I'm adjourned today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
