ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. Please register. I shall open the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] I suggest to your attention a draft work programme of the National Assembly for the period from 16 to 18 September 2015: 1. Draft decision for the plenary sittings of the National Assembly in September and October 2015 (importers: Tsetska Tsacheva, Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Nayden Zelenogorski, Radan Kanev, Valeri Simeonov and Borislav Borisov). 2. Second vote on the Pre-school and School Education Bill [[importers: Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm 3. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Special Intelligence Means Act [[importers: Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs]] . This is intended to be the first point for tomorrow "September 17th, 2015. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code. A joint project based on the laws adopted in the first vote amending and supplementing the Criminal Code. This is going to be t. 2 for Thursday, 17 September 2015 5. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and election of inspectors in the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council [[importer: Committee on Legal Affairs]] This is intended to be t. 1 for Friday, September 18th This Decision shall 6. First vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land (importer: Council of Ministers). And several ratifications: 7. A bill for ratification of the Annex amending the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation and Support with regard to the Secretariat of the South East European Police Cooperation Convention signed on 12 October 2012 in Matrahaza, Hungary. 8. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Interior of Hungary, the Government of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Justice and Public Security of Norway, the Swedish Migration Board, the Swedish Ministry of Justice and the International Migration Policy Development Centre on the implementation of the project. 9. Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Swiss Confederation on financial assistance. 10. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion of income and profits from the transfer of property (importer: Council of Ministers). 11. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Gurnsey on the exchange of information on tax issues (importer: Council of Ministers). 12. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion. 13. A bill ratifying the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part. 14. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement amending, supplementing and continuing the Agreement on Grants under the Programme of the European Union for the Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS in Bulgaria and between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Bulgaria. 15. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) on the implementation of a project between Bulgaria and the OSCE on the destruction of the fuel reserves (liquid fuel components), Protocol No 1 on the amendment of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) on the implementation of a project between Bulgaria and the OSCE on the destruction of the fuel reserves (liquid fuel components) and Protocol No 2 on the amendment of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) on the implementation of a project between Bulgaria and the OSCE on the disposal of rocket fuel reserves (liquid fuel components). 16. A bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on the exchange of passenger information. All ratification bills are with an importer of the Council of Ministers. And last point: Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 - 103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on Friday, with starting time 11:00 p.m. Please vote, fellow Members. Vote 154 MPs: 129 against 5, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. There have been several proposals in the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules. According to the order in which they have entered the Ministry of the National Assembly the first at the time is the MPs Metodi Andreev, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, who propose to include in the weekly program a bill for amendment and supplement to the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, No 454-01-66 of 18 December 2014 submitted by Metodi Andreev, Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs. Which of the colleagues will submit the request for inclusion in the weekly programme? Mr. Slavov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! The subject of protecting classified information has been quite up-to-date lately. You remember what incidents there were and with access to top military classified information. Often, me and my colleagues who offer this point, and with the other colleagues I've talked to, we ask ourselves the question: who checks the examiners? You know that under this Law, persons occupying senior government positions, a number of other senior positions in the state for access to classified information are being checked. On this basis, they are granted such admission, but then normally also under the Law on the publicity of the property is announced their property, that is to say, there is quite a lot of transparency in terms of their activity. However, persons who grant this tolerance, possible interconnections thereof, in this case, including dependencies on the former State Security, shall not be checked. The point of these changes that we have proposed is largely to take this into account when giving the opportunity and when appointing those persons who will check, i.e. having control over the verifiers. And I'm asking you to support him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u3	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Colleagues, we're voting. They voted 141 MPs: 46, against 18, abstentioned 77. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u4	Dear colleagues, please do a re-vote, as this is a Bill submitted with the signatures of GERB and the Reformation Block, and there have been several precedents concerning this particular matter. That's why I'm asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u5	Revoting, coworkers. Vote 138 MPs: 36, against 22, abstention 80. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal in the order of art. 50, para. 3 is from Mr. Chetin Kazak, who proposes inclusion in the program of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code with No 554-01-102, submitted by Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev on 26 May 2015. We're listening, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u6	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members, you know, I guess what this bill is about. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we also have a bill of identical content tabled. Unfortunately, however, with him one of the deadlines for consideration and entry into plenary has not yet expired, so I am making a proposal to examine this bill. It is important in view of the upcoming local elections in order to remove an unconstitutional provision that contradicts the international legal standards, a provision limiting the possibility of advocacy in another language other than the official one. You know very well the OSCE recommendations, constantly repeating themselves in each report. You also know the recommendations of the Venice Commission, which is here today in the National Assembly. You know that we have already filed complaints to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg against sanctions and fines imposed against our representatives for such actions in previous elections, so now is the time to cross in the future new criticisms, new judgment decisions, to abolish this provision. It is not too late, it will not create any problems if we adopt this Law now... neither the Central Election Commission nor the OIC, on the contrary... we will release them from an unnecessary requirement for illegal acts that are contrary to European norms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u7	Colleagues, we are voting on the proposal for inclusion in the weekly programme of this Bill. Vote 148 MPs: 22, against 74, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u8	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I'm asking for a re-vote. Tomorrow Joseph Dol will come and campaign GERB in French. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Martin Schultz will come to the BSP campaign and campaign in German. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Guy Verhofstadt might come to our campaign, maybe say a few words in Flemish. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u9	Colleagues, please, no lines from the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u10	I hope you won't take the risk that someone will file a complaint about the fact that during the campaign someone has campaigned in another language but in the official language. Therefore, honourable Members, I ask you to reconsider your decision and support our proposal to remove an anti-European provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u11	It's a re-vote. They voted 146 MPs: 21, against 88, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal in the order of art. 50, para. 3 is from Mrs Cornelia Ninova, who proposes in our weekly programme as a point to discuss and vote on the first vote Draft amending and supplementing the Law on personal income tax, No 554-01-85 from 30 April this year, with importers Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs. We're listening, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u12	Dear colleagues, the strongest time has come for a parliament to look at the budget and tax laws towards it for next year. The government has already proposed its vision, its vision of tax laws, they are on the table for discussion. The philosophy of these laws is tax increases. We offer our alternative.. this is a bill for amendment and supplement to the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals. Our proposal, I say, is fairer and in no way harms the treasury. Fairer, because people with the lowest incomes up to the minimum wage will be exempt from taxes, and on a scale that is growing progressively, people with the highest and the highest incomes will accordingly pay more taxes. The effect of this is more money will remain in the people, we will help the poorest, we will increase consumption, and in financial terms and dimension the effect is 200 million. lv. more in the budget. To our proposal we add elements of family income taxation to the non-taxable minimum to add 15% for the first child and 10% for the second child. I think, unanimously in this House, we decided that the demographic crisis is problem No 1 for Bulgaria. This is a small measure to help young families raise their children. We have proposed this Law several times. You are always rejecting it with one single argument, I think, four times already: it is not yet time to discuss tax laws, we will include it when there is a budgetary procedure and a time to discuss tax laws. Well, this time has come the majority is ready with their proposals, we are ready with our alternative. Let us put them on the table and discuss with arguments which is better, fairer and more useful for the country's budget. Moreover, you are shortly about to vote on a not quite timely leave to parliament, which will delay the discussion of the budget and tax laws, the most important thing for the country, so please start today, with the agenda, with the discussion of our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u13	We vote, fellow Members. They voted 139 MPs: 51, against 52, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. Messages. Bills and draft decisions entered into force from 9 September to 15 September 2015: Draft Law amending and supplementing the Special Intelligence Means Act. Importer Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Committee for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act is the lead. A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importers "Niden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Commission for the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. Project for a recovery decision on the construction of the South Stream Project. Importers scuse Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Energy Commission. A draft declaration condemning the intervention of foreign ambassadors in the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers scuse Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Distributed to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Service Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft decision on the position of the Republic of Bulgaria on sanctions by the European Union in relation to the Russian Federation, as well as to state the non-participation of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers scuse Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education. Importer "Borislav Borisov." It will be examined by the Committee on Education and Science. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education. Importers suppose Borislav Velikov and Milen Mihov. The Committee on Education and Science is the lead. It has also been allocated to the Health Committee. Draft amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft amending and supplementing the Internal Audit Act in the public sector. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Project for a decision on the work of the National Assembly in September and October 2015. Importers are Tsacheva, Tsvetanov, Zelenogorski, Kanev, Simeonov and Borislav Borisov. On 11 and 14 September 2015, by letters from the President of the Court of Auditors, the National Assembly received updates to the Annual Audit Programme of the Court of Auditors for 2015. By my letter, the updates of the programme were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. Members of the National Assembly may meet them at the Library of the National Assembly. On 14 September 2015, a report was received by the Minister of Education and Science in the National Assembly on the implementation of the National Program for the Development of School Education and Pre-school Education and Training 2006 - 2015 for the academic year 2014/2015, containing the upcoming activities by the end of 2015. By letter of the President of Parliament, the report was sent to the Committee on Education and Science and the Commission on Children, Youth and Sports. Members of the National Assembly may meet him at the Library of the National Assembly. On 14 September 2015 the National Statistical Institute received material from the National Statistical Institute containing information on consumer price indices for August 2015. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Dear Members of the Parliament, in connection with the upcoming holiday 22 September 2015 "A Day of Independence of Bulgaria, Tuesday, and the Day of Holiday 21 September" Monday, I inform you that the MPs and the parliamentary groups can make their proposals for the work programme of the National Assembly for the week 23 September under the terms and conditions of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure by 18:00 on Friday, 18 September 2015. The draft work programme of the National Assembly for the week 23 September 2015 will be submitted to the President of the National Assembly on 18 September 2015, Friday. Moving on to point one: PROJECT FOR THE DECISION ON THE WORK OF PEOPLE'S SEPTEMBER COLLECTION AND OCTOBER 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u14	Here you go, Mrs. Tsacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u15	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! After a week the election campaign for local elections 2015 will be launched, which will be held at the same time with a national referendum according to the proposal of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria and the National Assembly decision. Always in a similar situation before the National Assembly, the question of how to organise his work so that on the one hand the legislative process and the activities carried out by Parliament would not be hindered. By activity I mean important choices that coincide and we are obliged to make in this period the time September and October. On the other hand, we are always accused of putting the other political entities, parties, coalitions that appear in elections in plenary sittings, as you see, from this tribune and from the towers of the National Assembly, microphones and cameras may be used for election campaigning. Therefore, after careful discussion with the representatives of all the parliamentary groups of the Conference of Presidents last Wednesday, I and the other colleagues who are importers of this draft decision offer the following regime of work to the National Assembly on the days immediately before the campaign. Since the legislative time of the plenary sittings set in these days must be prepared in advance, we propose an extension of the plenary sittings every day, every week from Wednesday to Friday including, with two hours, that is, instead of ending at 2:00, we should be done at 16.00. In this sense, I suggest to your attention the following draft decision on the plenary sittings of the National Assembly in September and October 2015: Project! DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. Art. 74, Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 45, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The time for regular plenary sessions between 16 September and 9 October 2015 shall be extended to 16:00, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 2. The National Assembly shall not hold plenary meetings for the period from 14 to 23 October 2015 inclusive. 3. About time times t. 2 Members of the National Assembly shall not use official transport. Here I would like to make an explanation and an editorial proposal. I would like to make it clear that, at the Conference of Presidents with the participants in it, we also agreed to hold two extraordinary plenary sessions during this period, the first of which will be on 29 September and the second on 6 October. For these two extraordinary plenary sittings, we will adopt explicit decisions, as a decision on an extraordinary plenary session is voted along with a stated explicit agenda for it, which, you understand, cannot happen in this joint decision. My proposal for editing is in point. 3, where we've translated that for time times t. 2, that is, from 14 October to 23 October, the MPs do not use official transport from the National Assembly. An incorrect interpretation would appear that it is possible to use service transport on the day of thought... on October 24 and on the day of the elections.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I propose an explicit editing to make it clear that both on the day of reflection and on the day of producing the choice itself there is no way to use transport. I suggest editing the t. 3: I'm sorry, 3. For the period from 14 to 25 October 2015, the MPs do not use official transport from the National Assembly. I ask you to support this decision in order to have sufficient time to clarify how the National Assembly will work in plenary, which does not exclude, if necessary, the possibility of adopting another decision or the committees, when there are important bills, to hold at that time their meetings to discuss and vote on bills and other acts allocated to the relevant committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u16	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsacheva. Colleagues, speeches? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u17	Mr President, honourable Members, I take the floor to make an editorial proposal: 2 of the proposed decision to read and amend: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 2. The National Assembly shall not hold plenary sittings for the period from 21 to 23 October 2105 inclusive. I think the arguments for this are absolutely clear. Honourable Members, under the Constitution, we are a legislative body. We cannot allow ourselves for more than two weeks to abdicate from our obligations under the Constitution and not to engage in our main activity during a period related to the examination of bill for tax amendments, tax laws, budget laws, and other important bills that are waiting to enter our plenary work. Secondly, you can see for yourself that the internal political and especially foreign policy environment is such that we need not allow ourselves such a long period of time that we do not meet and not work the most important body in our country. Assuming that the National Assembly will not meet for the period from 21 October to 23 October including, we will have exactly 10 days to participate in the election campaign, which is enough to assist our colleagues on the ground. From BSP left Bulgaria we believe that this is quite enough as a period in which we can afford not to work the National Assembly. That's why I'm proposing a t. 2 to change by changing the amount of the period from 21 to 23. On the occasion of what President Tsacheva said about the service transport. Colleagues, yes, but let's just assume that there will be no use of NSO's service transport. If we're talking about equality, let's have a full equality. It is not the job of the President of the National Assembly to use official transport after the National Assembly will not meet. Let, as an ordinary citizen, appear in the respective electoral area and use another transport. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u18	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Tsacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u19	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Georgiev, there are no important and minor elections. In this sense, I would not say that the local elections 2015 are more important or less important than the elections for MEPs held in 2014. I have preserved the tradition and practice of the National Assembly before I propose to your attention the draft decision. You may have forgotten, but you can make the reference that for the euro vote by some coincidence, it is a coincidence that Parliament has not worked on the same dates from 14 to 23, only then it was May 2014. Where is the logic and why do I support the decision of the Forty-second National Assembly? Colleagues, in the last days of the election campaign, on Friday with parliamentary control, there is no member of the management who is not blamed for allowing an open election campaign to take place from this platform. As for what you have shared, I agree with you that these are very dynamic days and processes that are developing not only in the country but also outside of us. That is why I explicitly stated that, if necessary at any time, be assured that I will also call an extraordinary meeting on the days that we would vote as non-patriarchs for Parliament. As far as NSO's cars are concerned, make an offer to NSO if you can free me from these cars at all, I'd be grateful. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Georgiev, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u21	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. President Tsacheva, honourable Members! I didn't say that elections can be divided into irrelevant or more important. Undoubtedly, every choice has its political specifics and importance in terms of the issues that are resolved through this choice. If we take the European Parliament elections as an analogy, I think it is not right. First, they take place in a completely different period when it's not so... [[Shouting, GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u22	What difference does it make?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u23	It matters, Mr. Ivanov. I'll explain... [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u24	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u25	Second of all, let's realize that that's when they're elected... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u26	Quiet, please! Go on, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u27	Let us be aware that then only 17 European representatives of our country are elected and it could be assumed that the election campaign needs to be supported by other participants. I do not believe that we can make a direct analogy between one and another elections, and I have not said at all that some elections are less important or that others are more important.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u28	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Velizar Enchev. [[Shouting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u29	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, representatives of the Bulgarian media, I am making a proposal, which is a kind of continuation of my proposal from the beginning of the year................ the Christmas and Easter vacation of Bulgarian MPs to be equal to the holiday of Bulgarian citizens. By the way, I have tabled a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I will update this as early as next week.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u30	That's not the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u31	On the subject, yes, you're right. However, the subject is related to what I just said. A two-week vacation is available. I think... [[Noise and lines in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u32	Mr. Enchev, please... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u33	Let me speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u34	Please be quiet in this room, colleagues! Mr. Enchev, please, on the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u35	I propose that because of the election campaign for the local elections 2015 the MPs do not receive their remuneration. On what grounds will we receive wage for absence due to an election campaign? This will be unpaid leave and, if it is necessary to change the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u36	That's a whole other thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u37	The rules for the work of the National Assembly are not a sacred cow and are subject to change. Social behaviour of the MPs will be on the days when we campaign, when you campaign for your MPs who must be elected mayors when all MPs will be in their constituencies, we will not receive our wage and this will be unpaid leave. Thank you for your attention. I ask that this proposal be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u38	Mr. Enchev, I remind you to speak on the proposal and the draft decision. What you are proposing is a change in the Rules, which is a completely different procedure. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, elections are coming, it is clear that each one of you in the electoral district would like to help the neighbour and will go to do so. If we don't have a leave of absence, you'll say you're deliberately keeping us here so we can't campaign in the polls. There has to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u40	This isn't a vacation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u41	There has to be. On the occasion of some other speeches, I would like to say that many exotic ideas can be given, including someone who could give up his salary here and make it equal to that of the Bulgarian pensioners, and give a personal example. From then on, I think it's unnecessary to abuse. The proposal made is very good, it is realistic and each of you will take advantage of it, and will give the maximum of himself to campaign in his electoral area. I think the debate is unnecessary. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB. Proclaims: "Bravo, Emo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u42	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. A line? I think the lines were in the form of applause. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate on the draft decision. First, I will put to the vote the editorial proposal made by the honourable Mrs Tsacheva, which reads in point. For the period from 14 to 25 October 2015 including the MPs do not use official transport from the National Assembly. This is Mrs. Tsacheva's editorial proposal. 3. Please, honourable Members, vote. Vote 141 MPs: 126 against 1, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the next editorial amendment by Mr. Chavdar Georgiev of the BSP Parliamentary Group. He proposes in t. 2: The National Assembly shall not hold plenary meetings for the period from 21 October to 23 October 2015. Please vote on the editorial proposal made. They voted 139 MPs: 31, against 83, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. Now, honourable Members, we are voting on the entire draft decision together with the proposed editorial amendment by Mrs. Tsacheva. 140 MPs voted: 109, against 13, abstention 18. The proposal is adopted, with which the Decision is adopted, etc. 1 on the agenda. Dear colleagues, we are moving to the second point of the National Assembly's agenda for the day: THE SECOND VOICE OF LAWPROECTION FOR PRE-SCHOOL AND SCHOOL Please, Mrs. Damyanova, report to Art. 49.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u43	Mr. Chairman, before that, I am making a procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber of Mrs. Vanya Kastreva.. Deputy Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. We are voting on the procedural proposal for admission in this House. Vote 101 MPs: 97 against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Castreva, please report to the court. Dear Mrs. Damyanova, report to Art. 49.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u45	Under art. 49 there is a proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports in principle. A proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports in principle. A proposal from MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports in principle. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Galya Zaharieva, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which the Commission supports. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 49, which becomes art. 50: Art. 50. (1) Specialized service units shall be for: 1. research and information activities; 2. organizational and/or methodological support; 3. activities related to the qualification of pedagogical specialists; 4. activities for organizing, preparing and conducting internal and external evaluation and participation in international research related to pre-school and school education; 5. activities related to the conduct of the state policy to support the process of inclusive education; 6. activities in the management of international programmes; 7. activities in the preservation and development of the educational case. (2) Specialized service units may carry out one or more of the activities under para. 1, except for the activities under para. 1, t. 5. (3) The activities under para. 1, t. 5 shall be carried out by specialized service units, regional centres to support the process of inclusive education, which shall be established on the territory of each area. (4) Specialized service units shall be state-owned. (5) The structure and activities of the specialized service units shall be governed by regulations issued by the Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u46	Thank you. Statements? I won't. Dear colleagues, we are voting Art. 49 by importer which, according to the Commission, becomes art. 50. Voted 103 MPs: 87, none against abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u47	A proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 51. Art. 51. (1) The activities under art. 50, para. 1, t. 1 for the promotion of public policy in the field of pre-school and school education and for the development of the educational work are carried out by the National Publishing Office for Education and Science. (2) The National Publishing Office for Education and Science shall carry out publishing, information and methodological activities, as well as the activities of the preparation, printing and distribution of the scientific and methodological publications of the Ministry of Education and Science and of the newspaper I-Buki. (3) The structure and activities of the National Publishing Office for Education and Science are governed by regulations issued by the Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u48	Statements under art. 51? I can't see. I'm sorry. Mr. Zablyanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u49	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! I would like to draw attention to the proposal for art. 51. Of course, a lot of arguments can be found for the Law to enter and record a particular publishing house, which will issue the materials of the Ministry of Education and will implement state policy. I mean, it's about economic structure. On top of that, in art. 51 is written that it is a national publishing house "I-Buki" whose property is not specified. Just because it's national doesn't mean it's state. Tomorrow this publishing house can be of dominant private property. What it means in the Law to record a particular publishing house, which will implement state policy and on top of that, and will also issue methodical instructions and documents, look to see the Ministry of Education. Well, then let's put it on the proposal that he's going to publish all the textbooks. Or rethink the proposal for art. 51, or unfold in its fullness and assign the publishing company to publish all books in Bulgaria. On top of that, I'd like to hear the opinion of the importers. 51 does not violate the logic of the Public Procurement Act? Take a look at para. 2. It says he's issuing all the materials to the Ministry of Education. What do you mean he's gonna give them away? Isn't there a contest going on? What's this about? I'm sorry, maybe it's about publishing, which is specialized, highly qualified staff, colleagues, experience, history, tradition and so on, but the law can't make an exception. On what grounds is this proposal being made? On what grounds only one publishing house? So when it comes time to look at the number of textbooks, fellow importers will explain to you how the most logical thing is to have countless textbooks per item and in art. 51, we're recording a publishing house. Well, shouldn't that make sense, dear fellow importers? Not to mention that this really contradicts the Public Procurement Act. How are we going to record that this is the only publishing house that makes a-what are you? If only it were state-of-the-art! Well, it says there. What does a publishing house mean? Excuse me, could someone please come out and explain what a publishing house is? Anyone can take one of those concepts. There are national televisions that are private. I can create a national league of Western lovers. Right? What does the Publishing Office mean, which is written in a separate article in the Law? I'd be happy to make a point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u50	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. - What's the line? Here's a line for you, Mr. Veliv. Mr. Veliv, you have the floor of the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Colleagues, colleague Zablyanov was very keenly trying to explain that we seem to have assumed some inaccuracies. This is not the case, since this publishing company is indeed part of the Ministry, it is state property. There's nothing here that's embarrassing. In addition, it is explicitly stated that it is about the implementation of the activities under art. 49, para. 1, t. 1, i.e. this is already art. 50, which we accepted, which are specialized service units, so in this sense we proposed it, was adopted by the Commission in order to have stability of state policy in this area. In this sense, I assure my fellow Member that we have done perfectly in the Commission, and we are proposing to all Members of Parliament that we support this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u52	Thank you. Second line? A hole, dear Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u53	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Public Procurement Act is no exception to publishing. Take a look at para. Two in the offer! It's fully developed what publishing is doing there. Well, there's a monopoly activity in there, practically. The Ministry is obliged to announce, of course, a contest when these activities are awarded. Then how does art work? 51 of the Law, for example, for issuing the methodical tools of the Ministry, as recorded inside? The Ministry announces a contest because the amount of the order exceeds what is required. And then, in this hypothesis, what should the publishing house do......... or how this article works............................. Two? Please very much take full legislation seriously, not just what we want to do right now, or do a favor for someone who writes well for us. The second thing that I would like to propose, and I am making a concrete proposal in order that there may still be some completeness, and if you consider that this article should remain for some unknown reasons, because I have not heard any from Mr. Velikov, my proposal is to record that it is a state publishing house.I-Buki.In order to have clarity on the matter, as the notion, I will return to my speech, the notion of a publishing house is absolutely nothing. All publishers can register as national in the Trade Register and register with this name. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u54	Thank you. You're making an editorial proposal, aren't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u55	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u56	National Publishing House... Is this not by registration only or do you want to change the name specifically in the Law? Editorial? Got it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u57	Specifically the name in the Law, editorial.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u58	Got it. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: To be replaced by a Member State. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw attention to the fact that such an editorial proposal actually disproves the importer in itself. What is the obstacle to register a state publishing company? Tell me, is there such an obstacle? Even I'll tell you that if you take it that way, I'll put it in the Patent Office tomorrow to keep the brand and then see what we do. So what do we do?! It's nice when you speak and try to motivate yourselves, to really think a little ahead in time, because otherwise we'll be playing here at some ridiculous amendments, which, apart from losing valuable parliamentary time under the Law, which is over 450 members, if memory serves, nothing else is achieved. As for the logic and meaning of what the replicator might have had to explain earlier, it is actually that this publishing company is conducting a state policy. We watched over the years of issuing textbooks for the same class, for example, say the fourth class, where there are ten lines in one textbook for Vasil Levski, there are three in the other textbook and there are none in the third textbook at all. However, there was also a very interesting dependence that each of these textbooks with the corresponding lines for the Deacon and the Apostle of Freedom Vasil Levski were published, so to speak, on an ethnic map. That's what was weird. So in this text, it is aimed at finally having one unification with the publishers, and it is a uniformity to conduct a state policy, because this Law we adopt to be a conductor of state policy in the field of education, Mr. Zablyanov. I can remind you of some other times that you probably don't remember, but in the early 1990s in many of the technicians we taught without textbooks because they just didn't exist, they were gone. Especially tragic was the situation in economic technicians. At the time, it was very difficult to explain to the students the difference between planning economy and market economy, but these were some times to which you, with your speech, probably have something else in mind, or going back 20 years in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u60	Thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u61	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Mr. Bajraktarov, it is about property, not the name and the preservation of the trademark of the property structure in the capital of the company. Elementary! The second question I would like to draw your attention to is the state policy, what you say. Yes, there is hardly anyone in this room who claims to be against the implementation of a single state policy in education. You raised the issue of history training, but that also applies to other subjects. It is about the following: in what way to implement it, whether by recording this article. 51 which is obviously contrary to the Public Procurement Act and is not well thought out, there is no objection here on our part should there be such a policy. Not only do we have to, we insist on this thing, but, unfortunately, this article, as imported, cannot compensate for the remaining shortcomings that concern the issue at all and the entire process of publishing, auctions, acceptance committees and so on, which should then be organised by the Ministry of Education. So our suggestion is not just to replace the specific word in the text. I hope this thing is clear. If we really want to have a single state policy, it also concerns that conversation we had on Friday, when it comes to extracurricular centres, it concerns the conversation about the number of textbooks, about the procedure by which textbooks are accepted by committees in the Ministry of Education, that is all of this. This is state policy, not art. 51. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm sorry if you think you can solve this with him. Our proposal is to change the publishing house of the state...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u62	We understand, Mr. Zablyanov. Your time is up, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u64	Second line? I can't see. A hole, would you like one? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u65	Dear Mr. Jablyanov, it is nice when you speak, to write down what you have said. Otherwise, you can check your transcripts of what I said, what you said. It was precisely about the name you wanted to change with your editorial amendment, with your editorial proposal. However, I wanted to be softer and more diplomatic in my speech, but I can give you an even more striking example and it concerns your unmotivated speeches regarding the implementation and implementation of the Public Procurement Act. I hardly need to explain to you that there is an authority called the State Gazette, which also carries out a state monopoly in terms of printing, issuing and distributing all that is accepted here in the National Assembly. By your logic, we should probably conduct public procurement there as well. This is also a body that conducts state policy. [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] Right, yeah. I'm glad you're starting to agree. And you yourself understand that the author of the text followed exactly that logic. Otherwise, if we start talking, I'm sure a lot of other views will come out. In my coat, I'll give you one more reason to think. For some time I have been listening to colleagues, MPs, who want to conduct for example an campaign in a mother tongue, which, by the way, is an indirect insult to all Bulgarian teachers and teachers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u66	Mr. Bayraktarov, please, on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u67	Yeah, I'm just setting an example, and that's on the subject, Mr. Ivanov. This is an insult to Bulgarian teachers because it turns out that almost Bulgarian teachers have taught students to read and understand Bulgarian language. Here, I'm giving you another reason to think. That is why this article is important so that there can finally be a truly unified state policy in the field of publishing, in the area of all the documentation that the Ministry is working with. That's the point of this text. I hope you have understood me this time, as you have understood me in my other statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u68	Thank you. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. There is an editorial proposal made by Mr. Zablyanov in the proposals by the Commission a new article. 51 Wherever there is an expression of the Education and Science Publishing House, I-Buki. To replace the word of the State. Honourable Members, vote on Mr. Jablyanov's editorial proposal. Vote 68 MPs: 13 against 37, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. Revoting, Mr. Stoilov. I seem to have seen you vote, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u69	I voted, but to say, Mr. Chairman, what is the motive for asking for a re-vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u70	Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u71	We do not dispute the need for this publishing company to conduct state policy, but it is namedly....... does not create guarantees that tomorrow at the Ministry someone will not decide to privatise this national activity or to outsource it, as is also modern, i.e. to assign state policy not to an authority owned by the state, but to something else that, we fear, in the logic of the Law is being passed no longer by one or two texts. That is why I demand a re-vote, and you, if you do not support this proposal, means that you are not concerned about any national policy in the field of school education, but you are giving this policy the opportunity to be attracted to someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u72	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Dear colleagues, re-vote the editorial proposal by Mr. Zablyanov. Vote 95 MPs: 18, against 51, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new art. 51. Vote 84 MPs: 78, against 5, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please continue with art. 50.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u73	Article 50. Proposal by the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50, para. 4 after the words are financed by the.................................................................................... and...................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Mariana Todorova in Chapter 4, Section II, art. 50, para. Three out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by MP Stanislav Stanilov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) in para. the second sentence is deleted; (b) in para. 4 is finally added: the spiritual schools of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church are also financed by the state budget according to the order of this law. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50, para. 2 a second sentence is added: The state helps financially raise and feed children in the municipal kindergartens, as well as investment activities in the construction of new and modernization of existing kindergartens. 2. in para. 3 the last sentence of the State budget is also received under the terms and conditions of this law.................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs in art. 50, para. Three, sentence two, drop. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50 para. 3 is amended as follows: The private institutions in the pre-school education and school education system shall be financed under the conditions and in accordance with the law under which they are established. The private institutions in the system of public education shall also be assisted by the State under the conditions and under the order of art. 10, para. 1 of this law. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 50, which becomes art. 52: Art. 52. (1) State institutions in the system of pre-school and school education shall be financed from the state budget through the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science or of another ministry or office. (2) Municipal institutions in the system of pre-school and school education shall be financed through the budget of municipalities. (3) The private institutions in the system of pre-school and school education shall be financed under the conditions and under the law under which they are established. (4) Spiritual schools shall be financed by the respective religion under the terms and conditions of the Religious Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u74	Thank you. Statements? Here you are, Mr. Mihov. You have an unsupported proposal, most likely................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u75	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Since our proposal consists of two parts, the second part concerns the financing of private schools, it has already been decided to save time, we withdraw our proposal under para. 3. I would like to draw your attention to the rest of our proposal, which provides state financial support for raising and feeding children from municipal kindergartens, as well as investment activity in the construction of new and modernized, in the sense of existing kindergartens. This proposal naturally provides State aid for the development of kindergartens which are predominantly municipal property. What's the motive for that? This is naturally motivated by many factors related to both the demographic problem and the disproportions in the development of individual municipalities. We know that there are whole areas in the country that are dramatically behind in their socio-economic development and which are, we can say, white spots on the map of Europe. This text gives the legal basis in the future to develop state programmes, to develop a system of planning support for these areas, to these municipalities in the development of the much-needed infrastructure for early childhood education and child education. I would appeal to our opponents from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, as they have repeatedly expressed such ideas, and I hope they will support this legislative idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u76	Thank you, Assoc. Mihov. However, your first proposal, which is not supported by the Commission, remains, so I will put it to the vote. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate on the member concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting first, unsupported by the Commission, a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. They voted 89 MPs: 12, against 31, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the next unsupported proposal, it is from the MP Mariana Todorova. We are voting on the Commission's unsupported proposal. They voted 84 MPs: 21, against 13, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from the MP Stanislav Stanilov, which is not supported by the Commission. We are voting on the Commission's unsupported proposal. They voted 93 MPs: 18, against 28, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs has been withdrawn in the second part. We are voting for the Commission's unsupported first proposal by the MP Milen Mihov. Vote 79 MPs: 19 against 13, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote on this proposal. Vote 80 MPs: 8 against 57 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. Honourable Members, we are now voting on the proposal for art. 50 by importer, which becomes art. 52 in the version of the Commission. We are voting on a text supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 65 against 2, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u77	Under Section III, there is a proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for the name of Section III:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u78	Statements? I can't see. Colleagues, we are voting on the name of Section III by importer in the version of the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposal for the name of Section III has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u79	Under art. 51 has a proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The proposal has been issued in its part after the word "Education." The Commission does not support the proposal in the rest of the proposal, which is: 51, para. 3 words of age "16" shall be replaced by the words "upgrading of secondary education." A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: Art. 51, para. 1 is amended as follows: The school is a public school under art. 37, para. 1 and 2, which is located in the nearest locality in the territory of the municipality or in a neighbouring municipality, where students from the settlements are trained where there is no school. Art. 51, para. 2, p. 2 is amended as follows: "2." lunch meals organised on premises in accordance with the state educational standard for the physical environment of kindergartens, schools and out-of-school centres; Art. 51, para. 3 is amended as follows: For the students under para. 1 shall be provided free of charge for transport. Proposal by the National Representative Irena Kotseva, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Krasimira Anastasova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 51, which shall become Article 51. 53: Art. 53. (1) A kindergarten is a municipal kindergarten located in the nearest settlement in the territory of the municipality or in a neighbouring municipality where children are raised, educated, socialize and train children in compulsory pre-school age from the settlements where there is no kindergarten or school which organizes compulsory pre-school education. (2) The secondary school shall be a state or municipal school under art. 38, para. 1, t. 1, 2, 4 and 5 where students from settlements are trained in the territory of the municipality or in neighbouring municipalities where there is no school. (3) For the students under para. 1 from I to VII class including shall be provided: 1. full-time organization of the school day; 2. lunch, organized on premises in accordance with the state educational standard for the physical environment and information and library provision of kindergartens, schools and centers for support for personal development. (4) For children and students under para. 1 and 2 transport shall be provided. (5) The secondary kindergartens and schools are included in a list adopted by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, on the basis of a decision of the relevant municipal councils and published in the Official Journal. The list shall be updated annually until 1 November. (6) The criteria for inclusion in the list under para. 5 shall be determined by an act of the Council of Ministers, ensuring the minimization of travel time for children and students and providing conditions for the implementation of the educational process in accordance with state educational standards.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u80	Statements? I can't see. Firstly, we are voting on the proposal of the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs in the part which is not supported. We are voting unsupported by the Commission for a proposal. Vote 87 MPs: 14 against 5, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the proposal of the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 9 against 59, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting for the editorial of art. 51 by importer, which becomes art. 53 in the version of the Commission. We are voting in favour of and edited by the Commission. Vote 93: 92, no objection, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u81	Under art. 52 there is a proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 52, which becomes art. 54: Art. 54. (1) A protective kindergarten is a kindergarten, the closure of which would lead to a violation of the access to education of children at compulsory pre-school age. (2) A protected school is a school where closure of which would lead to violation of access to education. (3) Protected kindergartens and protected schools shall not be closed. (4) The protected kindergartens and the protected schools are included in a list adopted by the Council of Ministers and promulgated in the Official Journal. The list shall be updated annually until 1 November. (5) The criteria for determining protected kindergartens and protected schools shall be adopted by an act of the Council of Ministers and shall be related to objective geographical and demographic factors, the availability of road infrastructure, the remoteness and capacity of the nearest other school or kindergarten. (6) A protected kindergarten or a protected school that meets both the criteria for a kindergarten and a middle school shall also be included in the list referred to in art. 53, para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u82	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I will begin by calling on you to accept the final revision. However, a very long debate has passed on it and eventually came to an agreement. But since people spend all day here dealing with politics, anyone who is comfortable, I can show you another point of view to understand that we shouldn't play around. Do we do middle and secure schools and kindergartens in the country? We do. Do we spend money on teachers who need to be motivated to stay in these areas? We're doing it! Do we give for transport, so that they can get their education, to become full citizens of the state? We're doing it! These people, after they graduate, do they benefit from the health care system, the insurance system, the pension system? That is, at any given moment they are trained in Bulgarian textbooks, receive a health system, submit documents for work, for social benefits. And we started today's meeting with the problem of mother tongue. It doesn't suit me the most, but does it mean that all the money we give to these protected schools has been in vain after all these years since the beginning of our country's existence after the Liberation, primary education is free? There's no way they don't know Bulgarian, there's no way they can come up with a choice with a translator. Here, you see how politics can be made from something that shouldn't happen. Let's take all these decisions and let's not make the situation nervous all the time in the remaining days. Please support the final version of this article. All children in Bulgaria are our children. They're all future citizens. Everyone will pay their taxes and let us do what is necessary, as it is declared, that education is the primary objective of every government, that it really is, but not just in words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u84	Thank you. - What's the line? You're welcome to speak, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u85	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The introduction of the figure of the protected and the middle school is one of the genuinely positive steps that we were able to take during the Fortyth National Assembly, where the Minister of Education was Daniel Valchev. It is wonderful that in the new Law we have a visible sign of continuity regarding the settlement of the status of protected and middle schools. However, this step with this revision, right in nature, will not be enough to solve the problem of providing the basic principle of equal access to education if these texts are not combined with a new approach to financing these protected and metropolitan schools. My call is to try to free our eyes from the dazzling brilliance of the yellow pavement and to look at the educational realities from the point of view of the small settlement and the mountain, the mountain and the semi-mountain areas. I'll give you an example. In Momchilgrad municipality in the distant 1990s the school year was opened in 28 rural primary and primary schools. At the moment, 24 of them are closed. There are only four middle schools left. In them, the average number of children in the classes is 10 - 11 children. These schools have no status as protected. For this reason, their funding follows the general principle of funding under the differentiated maintenance regulations of a student. What's going on? One eight-class school, for example in the village of Zvezdell, where children are trained from the 12 - 13 other small settlements in which the schools are closed, receives a class of 10 children, according to the regulations, say BGN 1500. 15,000. At the same time, in Sofia, Plovdiv, Varna, Burgas, the parallel is 30 children. £1,500 each. £45,000. Three times that, provided that 80 percent of the costs of supporting the class are for salaries for pedagogical and non-pedagogical staff. And the number of teachers is determined not by the number of children, but by the number of classes. That is, in a class with 10 children, they teach as many teachers as they teach in a class with 30 children. Where did the principle of equal access to quality education go? Now, with a new structure of these schools, the main and middle class is being taken away from the 8th grade. I mean, they're losing an eighth of their minor alimony anyway. I warn you this is equal to the liquidation of all such metropolitan schools. So this is where the bomb was planted, which could blow up the idea of a new secondary school structure. I just want you to imagine what closure of any of these four survivors from 28 rural schools in the Rhodope municipality of Momchilgrad means. This means that the originals should travel not only from the neighborhood to the middle school 7 km, but from the center to the town of Momchilgrad another 20 km. Only in Rhodope Mountain these 20 km are an hour in winter. Notice. This means a new structure exploded, huge tensions and practical inability to access education. The problem doesn't end with first graders. With this Law we introduce an obligation for children and parents to provide in preschool forms of education and training and children who are four years old. Are they going to travel to town, too? Because there are no kindergartens. The shape is in the middle school. How do we imagine all this? Therefore, in a moment, I will continue this analysis in relation to my proposal that the new funding formula not only apply to protected schools, but also to the district schools that are closed down which are really impossible. Otherwise, the idea of the new structure was exploded in the bud. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u86	Thank you. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I can't see either. Let's move on to the vote. Vote art. 54 as amended by the Commission. We are voting on an importer text, as amended by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: for 104, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u87	A proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The proposal is withdrawn under para. Two, sentence two. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 54. A proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u88	Here you go, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u89	Thank you. I hope you will be understanding, ladies and gentlemen of the House. A record is reflected that the proposal has been withdrawn, and in fact the stenography protocol shows that the idea was to consider this proposal in Section "Financials" of the school education system. However, I subsequently understand that the proposal has not been put to the vote on the substance in the discussion of this section, and it has been adopted in the version of the Commission of art. 282, para. 5, only reduced only to protected schools. A moment ago, I made a statement to justify why the proposal should not be reduced, why the new funding formula should also affect middle schools. Because otherwise they will not survive and the responsibility for the consequences of closed district schools will be those MPs who would not support the proposal. I assure you, there is a need to open the map, to see educational realities not only in Momchilgrad, but also in Jebel, in Smolyansko, without exception, in all municipalities, to see that the survival of the middle schools, given that the VIIIth grade is dropping out of the basics, passes through the adoption of the proposal for a new formula. Here it is possible another approach to the district schools to acquire the status of protected. Then the Commission's text will practically cover the problem and will solve it. From then on, we will be faced with other problems, the solution of which, with the new structure of me, seems almost impossible. For example, Madam President [[turns to rapporteur Milena Damyanova]] You have this statistic. [[Shows table.]] Twenty-three percent of primary education graduates do not continue in average! This means that 23% of children enter the labour market with 8 years of schooling! Given that the eighth grade passes in the high school stage, there is a potential risk that these 23% of children will enter the labour market with not 8 years, but with 7 years of training! This problem must also be solved. The law doesn't answer. You will talk about the united schools. Don't. There is no way to survive a school with 10 children in a class next to the X-class class, not in Starkel, not in Jebel, not in any Smolyan village. I therefore call for more responsibility and for you to accept the proposal for a new formula of funding and the district schools, like those protected. Otherwise the new structure will not work and the effect will be education on wheels, that is, only urban schools will survive, and indoor and middle school means indoor village. That's not populism! It's a reality we're facing. Of course, I expected the Law to answer, for example, the following question: how does a teacher in a elementary school who forms his law for teaching employment to receive a regular teacher's salary, with the hours laid down for the subject in V, VI, VIII, VIII, VIII class, when dropping out of the third grade will bind the regulations? Take a chemistry teacher: how will he tie up a minimum of 50% hours in his specialty to receive a regular teacher's salary? Even for the teachers in Bulgarian language: three classes three hours each nine, under the regulations 22 hours a week! How is he gonna tie the salary regulation to a regular teacher? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Therefore, I repeat, funding is only one of the elements that must be foreseen to survive the middle schools. Not surviving them is a crime, and I wouldn't want time to show it. If we have will. [[the President signals that time has run out]] We'll prevent that risk. Everything, of course, is in the will of the ruling parties. We have fulfilled our duty to warn of the real risk of liquidation of dozens and hundreds of middle schools.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u90	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. I understand, you'll probably make an offer under art. 282 "Editional," or at least there will be a statement there. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Indeed, the proposal of Mr Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs is partly reflected in art. 282, para. This is a new para. 5 which was proposed by colleagues from the Ministry of Education and Science to introduce a new formula of funding for protected schools. Colleagues, I think the more important question that we need to answer is: why do these 23% students, according to the data that were presented, do not continue their education and how do we make sure that we keep them at least to the X grade so that they can master part of a profession or get a first degree of professional qualification? How do we keep them in school until the sixth grade so they can get high school? This is the essential question that we need to answer. Here I really hope for more serious analyses on these 23% students, on the reasons for their dropping out of the educational system, and not to strive to make the Law so that, if possible, they can stay until the VIIIth grade. No, colleagues, if possible, with responsible political behaviour to motivate these young people to stay longer in school. The proposal, of course, will be discussed in art. 282 with regard to district schools. We did not accept them to be included in para. 5 for one main reason. We have middle schools in the country, colleagues who are older, as a number of students, from a school that has neither the status of a protected nor the status of a middle school. I will give an example of such a school in the town of Kardzhali, with a wonderful director, our former colleague Mr. Bagdasarov. This school has over 1,500 students. Should it receive an additional formula for other funding? I'll be back here again. I'm sure you'll replicate me that schools with a smaller number of students will be included in a separate paragraph. However, what we have united in the Commission is that the schools that Mr Mestan is talking about, those who will be threatened in one form or another in order to have peace in the system, to be calm and the people, the schools that will not likely be able to be converted into united, will be granted the status of a protected school and will be financed under para. 5. So there will be no closure of schools and there will be no danger that these children will virtually not have access to education. Moreover, with the texts that we have looked at before, and also here, not only does the legislator show continuity, but also introduces the status of a protected kindergarten and middle school, which once again guarantees access to education and to younger children, including guaranteeing their transportation something that has never happened before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u92	First line, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ms. Damyanova, of course our proposal does not affect the quoted school with 1,500 children. And it's no coincidence. We have correctly reflected the proposal that the provision of para. 1 does not apply in cases where the number of children is sufficient in the relevant middle school and there is no point in raising unnecessary discussion. It is natural that we are talking about secondary schools with small classes, whose closure, however, is impossible. The new financing formula played its role: direct financial pressure for radical optimization of the school network. Everything that could've been shut down has been shut down. If there are more surviving schools, whose closure would not violate access to education, the municipal councils should assume their responsibility, as in Momchilgrad, Jebel, Krumovgrad took over by shutting down nine out of ten schools. Not two thirds, but nine out of ten schools. Mrs. Karayancheva knows that. But there is one limit after which closure is impossible. Here are these, a priors are protected. If this is where you declare willful these cases to really include them in the list of protected schools, we have already reached an agreement to resolve the issue. As for those who will enter the labour market after the seventh grade, my forecast is that this will be the effect of implementing the new structure, it had one solution, but I see that there is no will for it. I believe that the constitutional record that school education is mandatory by the age of 16, could be bound by an obligation to complete the X grade, the first high school stage. Why don't we? Because given that X grade is not mandatory, remember my prognosis, after the 7th grade these 23 percent will go to the labor market, with 7th grade and not 8th grade school training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u94	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. Second line? I can't see. Would you like a douche? Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u95	I think I was clear enough with the declaration of the political will of our parliamentary group, our coalition partners and, I would say, to all the colleagues we discussed and united around the new para. 5 in art. 282.. we will examine it further so that these schools you are talking about are included in the list of protected schools. Otherwise, in terms of engaging at the age of 16, with the completion of the first high school stage, I think the Constitution is clear: training by the age of 16 is mandatory. Why doesn't a child, when he's 14 years old, attend school? And here the measures really need to be supportive, to examine the reasons for not attending school and to take the appropriate compensatory measures so that really these children by the age of 16 at least be in school, as is their constitutional obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u96	Thank you. Any other speeches? Here you go, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u97	I will start backwards in relation to the statement of the honourable President of the Commission: why do not they continue after eighth grade? Because they have no motivation. There are three groups: one group are the gypsies, which are social nomads and in their value system education is nothing. The second group is those who are also in the marginal part of society. You know, she's very big at my place. That's where the motivation is for another reason. In the end, poor education has no value. And the third group, which is perhaps less than a third, are children of educated parents who are simply missed because of the crisis in society. But I'll take another position from here to say a few more words. In fact, all that we have said in the last few speeches, and the whole Law is pierced by this problem, this is the demographic problem. There are no children, and that is why there is a crisis in education and that is why we are also discussing middle schools, discussing auxiliary schools and so on. And the education crisis is a demographic crisis. The demographic crisis is the fault of all of us who made the wrong transition. Why were so many people allowed to leave the country with their children? It's not about birth rates. The birth rate is a less overbearing obstacle. In Northwestern Bulgaria now nearly 50 percent of the children who had to go to school are abroad. Even more than 50 percent, that's for sure! And for all this we have all the responsibility and especially those who have ruled the country for the last 25 years. So when we start crying about the demographic crisis and about education, I will remind you of what Botev wrote in his Filipica, but I will not quote it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u98	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. - What's the line? I won't. Assoc. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u99	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! We have started a debate on a text that has been postponed, which concerns a very big issue about financing the system of pre-school and school education. And I think that when we get there, we should pay serious attention not only to the funding of protected and metropolitan schools, but also to the whole mechanism for the formation of delegated budgets. And although we are a bit ahead of the subject, this should be noted, is a serious topic, a serious issue that is based on the attention of our entire public and which directly affects the functioning of both the system and each institution. Today we are witnessing that there are schools overcrowded, overcrowded, and schools suffering from lack of students for one reason or another. Some cases have nothing to do with the quality of education. I would not agree that there should be some regionality, for example, Kardzhali, Razgrad, Smolyan or somewhere else in the debate on district schools. This problem is a nationwide problem and it cannot be regional, even less ethnically defined. And that is why a monopoly in this direction cannot be assigned to any representative of any region or any electoral region. I propose, Mr. Chairman, that we break the debate and vote on the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u100	Thank you. Are you making a procedural proposal, Mr. Mihov, for an interruption? Thank you. A reverse opinion? Mr. Mihov did the procedure. Previously on the procedural proposal? I won't. The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, I have a procedure in the manner of conduct, and I note to you that you have allowed 15 minutes of chatter by text, which, notice, has been withdrawn by the importer. Excuse me, but in the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, it is not envisaged that we discuss texts that have been withdrawn by the importer himself, so I ask you very much that, in subsequent such texts, you simply end this discussion, which there is neither how nor for what to lead it, after the text has been withdrawn, so that we do not waste really valuable time. The law, once again, is over 450 members, and if we are having discussions on withdrawn members and proposals, it is simply unacceptable indeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u102	I take occasion from your speech to really remind the Members of the National Assembly to stick to the subject and, accordingly, the members we are discussing. We are voting on Professor Mihov's procedural proposal to end the debate. 90 MPs voted: 86, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Proceed with Chapter Five.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u103	"Chapter 5" Pre-school education. A proposal from the Member of the National Assembly Valery Jablyanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly the name of Chapter 5 is amended as follows: Chapter Five. Preschool training and upbringing. School's readiness. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u104	Statements? I can't see. We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 7 against 65 abstentions 16. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission's proposal on the name of Chapter Five. Vote 92 MPs: 84, against 2, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u105	General provisions. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 53, which becomes art. 55.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u106	Statements? I can't see. Please, honourable Members, we are voting on the text of the importer supported by the Commission for the name of Section I, together with the text in art. Art. 53, which becomes art. 55, supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u107	Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs: Article 2 is created. 53a: Art. 53a. (1) Preschool training and education shall create conditions for the achievement of school readiness. (2) School readiness is a set of acquired competences ensuring a smooth transition of the child to school training and education. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u108	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. Honourable Members, we are going to vote. We are voting for the Commission's unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs for the creation of art. 53a. They voted 91 MPs: 8 against 61, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u109	Article 54? a proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 54, which becomes art. 56: Art. 56. Pre-school education is carried out by kindergartens and compulsory pre-school education and by schools that can provide conditions for this, under the conditions and under the state educational standard for pre-school education and the state educational standard for the physical environment and information and library provision of kindergartens, schools and centers for support for personal development.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u110	Statements? I can't see. We are voting, honourable Members, the text of the importer, edited by the Commission for art. Art. 54, which becomes art. 56. We are voting in favour of a proposal supported by the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: 88, no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u111	"Department II " Posting and moving to the kindergarten ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 55, which becomes art. 57. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 56, which becomes Art. 58. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 57, which becomes art. 59. Article 58 "A proposal from the National Representative Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 58, which becomes art. 60: Art. 60. (1) The number of groups and the number of children in a group in the state and municipal kindergartens shall be determined by the director of the kindergarten after consultation with the pedagogical council in accordance with the state educational standard for the financing of institutions and the state educational standard for the physical environment and information and library provision of kindergartens, schools and centers for support for personal development. (2) The number of groups and the number of children in a group in private kindergartens shall be determined in accordance with the state educational standard for the physical environment and the information and library provision of kindergartens, schools and centers for support for personal development. (3) The seats in the kindergarten shall be within the defined number by para. 1 and 2 which have remained unoccupied after enrolling all the children who want at a certain time. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 59, which becomes art. 61.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u112	Speeches, honourable colleagues? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting in one name of Section II and the proposed texts for Articles 57, 58, 59, the version of art. Art. 60, Art. 61. Dear colleagues, we are voting. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u113	"Department III" "Pre-school Education". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III. Article 60? a proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports in principle the proposal, which is reflected in para. Three and four. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 60, which becomes art. 62.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u114	Statements? I can't see. We are voting, honourable Members, the name of Section III, proposed and supported by the Commission, and art. 62 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u115	Article 61 s a proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 64, para. 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 61, which becomes art. 63.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u116	Statements? I won't. I shall put the text of Article to the vote. 61 by importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes art. 63. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u117	Under art. 62 has a proposal from the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: "Article 62' is amended as follows: Art. 62. The content of the training and activities in pre-school training and education shall be determined by the state educational requirements. Proposal of the National Representative Borislav Veliev, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 62, which becomes 64: Art. 64 (1) The school time during the school year shall be between 15 September and 31 May of the following calendar year. (2) The time of study shall consist of study weeks and study days. (3) The time of study shall be organized in pedagogical situations. The number and duration of pedagogical situations shall be determined by the state educational standard for pre-school education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u118	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u119	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Rather, this is a question for importers because the introduction of the concept of a pedagogical situation is not, in our view, a definition suitable for law. It is absolutely appropriate for a textbook, but the law is not a textbook in pedagogics. This has also been commented in the Commission. Once again, is it appropriate to use the term "pedagogical situation" in the Law?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u120	And what should we write?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u121	Thank you. Please don't engage in dialogue. If anyone wants a line, please come in. There's no one for a line. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. Vote 85 MPs: 14 against 56, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 62 by importer, which becomes art. 64, as amended by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 76, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u122	Under art. 63 has a proposal from the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal, which is: "Article 63 shall be amended as follows: Art. 63 (1) Training and education in kindergartens include mandatory and additional forms. (2) In state and municipal kindergartens the compulsory forms of training and education are funded by the state. (3) State and municipal kindergartens may organise additional forms of self-organization for the activities defined by the state educational requirements and to negotiate with external organizations their implementation. (4) Children may take part in additional forms only after written consent of the parent (the guardian). The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 63, which becomes Art. 65.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u123	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the unsupported proposal of Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. Vote 82 MPs: 13 against 56, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 63 by importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes art. 65. Vote 87 MPs: 84, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u124	Under art. 64 has a proposal from Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs in art. 64 The words "pedagogical interaction" are dropped. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 64, which becomes Art. 66.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u125	Statements? I can't see. Honourable Members, we are voting on the Commission's unsupported proposal by Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. Vote 82 MPs: 13, against 53, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 64 by importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes art. 66. Vote 84 MPs: 77, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u126	Under art. 65 has a proposal from Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The proposal is withdrawn under para. 1. The Commission generally supports the proposal under para. 2. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal, which is: This is how 65 is changed: Art. 65. The compulsory and additional forms of education and education in kindergartens shall be carried out in the full-time, half-day, part-time or parent-selected organisation, under conditions and in order laid down by the state educational requirement for pre-school education. Proposal by Milena Damyanova, made in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 65, which becomes art. 67: Art. 67 (1) The main forms of pedagogical interaction shall be carried out in the full-time, half-day, part-time or self-employed organisation of parental choice, under conditions and in order laid down by the state educational standard for pre-school education. (2) The self-organization of para. 1 shall be approved after a decision of an expert committee of the regional education management. A representative of the municipality concerned and the Agency for Social Assistance shall participate in the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u127	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u128	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As we conclude this section, my statement is basically. In my opinion, there should be understandable terms in the Law for educators, non-pedagos, parents and people who are related to Bulgarian education. Instead of a pedagogical situation, a pedagogical interaction, especially in this text, the more eloquent words and terms are teaching, education. I believe that the Law is aimed not only at the people employed in the Bulgarian education system, but also at the wide range of Bulgarian public that is relevant. That is why we have also made proposals that are clearly not supported by the vote, but we think these are adopted terms that are understandable to people. We believe that this should be the Law when it comes not only to professional circles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u129	That's not the lyrics! And that's second reading!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u130	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. We are voting unsupported by the Commission a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. They voted 87 MPs: 13, against 52, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the text of Article to the vote. Art. 65, which becomes art. 67 by importer in the version of the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 74, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u131	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 66, which becomes Art. 68. "Section IV - Content of pre-school education'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section IV.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u132	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. We vote on the name of Section IV together with art. 66, which becomes Art. 68 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: 77, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u133	Article 67 supposed by the National Representative Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 67, which becomes Art. 69: Art. 69. (1) Pre-school education shall provide conditions for the acquisition of a set of competences, knowledge, skills and relationships necessary for the successful transfer of the child to school education. (2) The jurisdictions under para. 1 shall be determined by the state educational standard for pre-school education. Article 68 supposed by the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposed by the National Representative Krasimira Anastasova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 68, which becomes Art. 70: Art. 70. (1) The pre-school education process shall be subject to the implementation of a programme system as part of the strategy for the development of the kindergarten or school which carries out compulsory pre-school education and which shall comply with the requirements of the state educational standard for pre-school education. (2) The programming system shall be a comprehensive concept of the development of the child with approaches and forms of pedagogical interaction subject to a common goal. (3) State, municipal and private kindergartens may work on copyright and innovative programming systems in accordance with the state educational standard for pre-school education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u134	Thank you. Speeches, honourable colleagues? I won't. We are voting together on the proposals of the importer for art. Art. 67, which becomes Art. Art. 69, Art. Art. 68, which becomes Art. 70 on the Commission's version. Vote 88 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Negative vote first negative vote, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u135	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, in order to save time for discussions, and also because these discussions will not change the course of the Law, I am still obliged to express my reasons for the negative vote under Article. 70. Note, a series of meaningless and non-state texts: The process of pre-school education subject to the implementation of a program system as part of the strategy for the development of kindergarten or school............................................................................. What do you say with this text? Even if these are some sort of party directives, they are first for another kind of documents, secondly they must still carry some minimum content. What strategies are you talking about in the separate kindergarten and in the school? What are these accumulated words that do not prescribe any behavior? After all, the law is oriented toward his... what they can, or are obliged to do. So this large volume that you are taking, which you have assigned to some to write for sure against a lot of money over two or three mandates, through which dozens of people have passed, this is being produced, this word ballast, called the law, and the introduction of the terms behind which the fog needs to be created to conceal and certain changes in educational policy, some of which will now quite really reflect on people, on pedagogists, on students and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u136	Thank you. Second negative vote? I can't see. Moving on, Mrs. Damyanova, with art. 69.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u137	Article 69 supposed by the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 69 A sentence is created second with the following content: It introduces a new educational field of religion and ethics. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov in art. The second sentence shall be created with the following content: It must include education and ethics. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of Members of the National The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Milen Mihov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 69, which becomes art. 71: Art. 71. Pre-school education is carried out in the educational fields, in order defined by the state educational standard for pre-school education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u138	Statements on the proposed art. 71? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, we are voting unsupported by the Commission a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. They voted 89 MPs: 12, against 24, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on a proposal from the MP Mr. Stanislav Stanilov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 87 MPs: 10, against 27, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. Honourable Members, we are voting on a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 86 MPs: 11 against 51, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 69 by importer, which becomes art. 71 as amended by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u139	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 70, which becomes art. 72.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u140	Statements? I can't see. Honourable Members, we are voting in favour of the Commission text of the importer for art. 70, which becomes art. 72. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, I'm announcing a break until 12:00 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u141	I ask the MPs to take their seats. The hearing is ongoing. Mrs. Damyanova, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u142	sixth school education. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Six. "Department I" - Types of school education. Grades, stages and types of school education. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u143	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the name of Chapter Six School Education, and Section I "School Education Types." Grades, stages and types of school education (by importer) supported by the Commission. We vote, fellow Members. Abort the vote! There's no quorum. Name check. Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - absent Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - absent Valentin Ivanov Radev - absent Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - absent Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - here Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valentin Stefanov Vassilev - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - here Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - here Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - here Vili Mladenov Lilkov - absent Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - absent Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Vyara Mikhailova Tzerovska - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - here Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - absent Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Darin Ivanov Dimitrov - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov - here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - here Dimitar Tanev Tanev - absent Dimitar Hristov Zhelev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - absent Zdravko Dimitrov - absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - here Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Andonov Kotev - absent Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Dobreva Marinova - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - absent Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - here Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Krasimira Peneva Anastasova - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - here Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bancheva - here Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shetreva Belova - absent Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - absent Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Maya Bozhidarova Manolova - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - here Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - absent Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - absent Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - here Peter Hristov Bekov - here In addition, they came in here: 1. Valentin Nikolov 2. Atanas Zafirov 3. Vladimir Toshev 4. Valentin Nikolov Ivanov 5. Valentin Vassilev 6. Jayhan Ibryamov 7. Dimitar Zhelev 8. Willy Lilkov 9. Borislav Milanov 10. Aliosman Imamov 11. Aidoan Ali 12. Magdalena Tasheva There is a quorum. Let's move on. I am voting on an importer supported by the Commission, the name of Chapter Six and Section I of the Law. Vote 114 MPs: for 113, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u144	Under art. 71 has a proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Art. 71, para. (2) to be changed: The training for the acquisition of primary education shall take place from I to VIII class including in two stages as follows: 1. start-ups from I to IV class including; 2. junior high school from V to VIII class including the high school; Alinea 3 to be amended: The training for the acquisition of secondary education takes place from IX to XII class including in two stages as follows: 1. First high school - from IX to X class included. 2. Second high school student - from XI to XII class including. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Art. 71 (2) t. 2 is amended as follows: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 2. junior high from V to VIII class including. Art. 71 (3) is amended as follows: The training for the acquisition of secondary education is carried out from IX to XII grade, including in one stage of high school education. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 71, which becomes art. 73.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u145	Thank you. Statements? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u146	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members. Here again is the question of the correlation between the degrees of completion of education and the stages as they are currently scheduled. Our proposal is this: firstly, the high school stage to be common not because of this, but because in the discussion in the Commission it became clear that by graduating from the tenth grade as foreseen, students who complete it receive no document, meaning they receive no document for completed degree of education. They complete a stage. At the same time, in members of the same draft of the Law, several chapters earlier, we anticipated the creation of a separate kind of schools from first to tenth grade, where we did not specify what kind of education these children complete. Do they graduate from high school in the tenth grade? In the Commission, when we discussed these issues, they remained open, there was no convincing or reasoned answer. That is why our proposal was to have a complete correlation between grade and stage, and that is why we proposed that the second stage of education should also be with the completion of secondary education. At the moment, there is a meaningless division in the high school stage that gives nothing. It may be from a point of view inside, purely technologically, but as a document for completed education absolutely has no meaning for further realization and is somehow outside the overall system at the moment as it is proposed. The second question that I would like to ask again is the question of completing primary education. In the current degree, as suggested, you see what disproportion is obtained from the first degree in primary education is taught from first to fourth grade, the second degree is studied from fifth to seventh and ends, so in two years one degree, the other degree is four years. This was one of our arguments to suggest that we remain the completion of primary education in the eighth grade. There wasn't, and I can't see any compelling arguments. It's been an hour since the debate started here from this tribune, to get back to it, but I think there's an opportunity to bring some intelligence into these internal divisions of individual degrees of education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u147	- What's the line? Here you go, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u148	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I just come out to say that I supported this structure of the Commission, in fact, to the author of this Law, which stands on my right hand. Why? So the two stages are not four to two, but four to three, which is normal. The authors of the Law made a retro movement and returned to the Bulgarian education between 1925 and 1961, I think it was, or 1962, I don't remember exactly, on this return they rely that education will become more sustainable. Because I've graduated from first to fourth and fifth to seventh, and as you can see, I'm alive, healthy, I'm fine, I haven't lost my mind yet. Note that this education, which was introduced by Alexander Tsankov in his reforms after 1925, after the arrival of Tsankov to power after the Nine-Yuan coup, this structure was also related to the so-called "incompleted average." High schools are divided into two, one is classic, one is semi-classic, one is real, they end at different times, depending on students' abilities. It is still clear in high school, since junior high who will not continue to study higher education and who should get a trade and so on, and thus save money to the state, funds to learners and so on, that is to say, education is divided. Whether what they have done and what the National Assembly will accept will work in the Bulgarian society is not quite certain. I am not sure that it will be successful, but I hope it will be more sustainable because the teachers who are in this room know very well that the characteristic of the taught material does not change in the eighth grade, but changes after the seventh grade Books can comply with all this and things can work out. So I see no reason for this old scheme, which is thirty years old, to be in junior high and high school to start at ninth, and I see no particular reason why there should be no students who graduate from secondary school, but are not allowed to continue in high school because they have studied one or two years less. All this is possible to do. That's what I wanted to say, although, to tell you right, I'm going to repeat it for which way: if we don't have children, why do we need an Education Act?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u149	Thank you. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Stanilov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the period 1925 " 1961" completed seventh grade was sufficient for successful realization of the labour market. Times change. Knowledge is depreciated much faster than technology. Therefore, in favour of the new structure, there are not exactly those arguments that have been put forward by you. I will repeat again, the white spot in this Law, the fundamental question to which this Law does not answer, is: What happens to those 23% graduates of primary education who do not continue in secondary education? What's going on with these kids? The eighth grade study content will not fit into the training program from first to seventh grade. This is not possible and is not foreseen. Therefore, if there are no mechanisms for these 23% to continue to a minimum up to 10th grade, they will enter the labour market without mastering the eighth grade learning content, i.e. even more illiterate, more inappropriate to the current labour market requirements. That's the white spot in the Law. And the whole apologetics about the new structure of secondary school ends up answering that question. If he's gone, you have no reason to be apologists of the new structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u151	Thank you. Second line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Jablyanov! The law must be read from the beginning to the end, and I think, as a member of the Education Committee, we have had a long enough time to read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u153	And that was a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u154	That's my cue to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u155	No, there was a prof. Stanilov. That's very clear. He asked for a statement, so the line is to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u156	We have a line from Zablyanov right now, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u157	Mr. Stanilov had a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u158	No, Mr. Stanilov had a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u159	No, Mr. Stanilov asked for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u160	In that case, consider it a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u161	Only we have a line from Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u162	Do you want to make a line to Professor. Stanilov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u163	No, I want a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u164	Please, then, let's give Professor Scully a chance. Stanilov to make a duplicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u165	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u166	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u167	That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u168	I invited someone who has lines to prof. Stanilov. Here you go, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, before the break, Mr. Mestan came out when I explained what these 23% are and why they have no motivation to continue. I don't think eighth grade is gonna add anything. With nothing will add to these 23% to complete eighth grade and expand their knowledge sector, they will still not go and will still not find work for one simple reason that one part of them, I already explained, belong to the social nomadic group of Bulgarian society and there the value of education is not at all. And for the second group, I explained which ones; and for the third group. These 23% can be returned in another way if society starts, but there is no philosophy in our society for such success. So even if we increase the primary education by one year, let's get it up and down by one year the average, they still won't go on. I'm perfectly sure of that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u170	To speak, Mrs. Cornelia Marinova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to point out something that is obviously not well understood when secondary education is completed and what happens when the first stage of the middle degree is completed. The same is obtained after the completion of the basic educational degree stage of the certificate. That is, the principle by which the stage and degree are completed is the same, equal in different cases, whether it is the first stage of the basic degree and the first stage of the average degree of education. So fairy tales of the kind that don't give anything, that's pointless and so on, are absolutely groundless. And one more thing. At the moment, the primary education stage is completed in four years and four years, respectively, at the secondary stage, at the expense of the years 4 years, of secondary education. What the new structure is signing is seven for the first basic degree of education, and five for the high school, for the middle degree of education. This is how we believe that continuity and passability of the system are achieved, which I have already spoken about, and I do not intend to repeat myself.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u172	Any lines to Mrs. Marinova? I won't. Mr. Bajraktarov, after him Mr. Yanaki Stoilov stated themselves.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u173	Thank you, Madam President. As a matter of fact, this text is one of the important texts. However, the omission is not in the text, because what is also at stake by the Commission is an idea which, by the way, is already working in one part. It has been working since the time, I dare say that I have made a special contribution there, when, for example, students graduating from secondary vocational education at that time, we gave them the right and opportunity, as were economic technicians, to apply with economics to the higher education institution, something that showed that it worked. As for the first stage of secondary education, here the omission is not in the Law itself, colleagues. Here the omission, even I wouldn't call it a pass, here already the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Economy must create synchronization with the Ministry of Education and Science, namely to analyse what the needs of business of a certain type of occupations and certain types of personnel can immediately enter the labour market. It's not complicated and it's not difficult to understand. I'll give you a simple example, especially public food schools that produce culinaries, cooks, waiters, bartenders. There the tenth grade is absolutely enough.. these students get one good enough training to be already well prepared personnel for the business and service sphere. So there's no problem here. I agree with Professor. Stanilov that this is an opportunity to save money for the state. The most important thing is to provide prepared footage of the business. As for these 23%, which is indeed an extremely serious problem, but this problem is a matter of very thorough analysis. He goes through traditions of early birth, early exit from the system of education. It passes, even if we have to go back to that debate about these schools, which in many areas have become mixed, in which 10 children are taught at different ages by one teacher. Imagine what motivation these children will gain when children learn in the first, second, third and fourth grade classes and have to prepare in a different material. That's a second problem. The third most important problem with these 23% is the issue of integration. I don't know why nobody's bothering him, though. There is a plan, there is a report that we will still have to look at, which has been accidentally spent only in the last two or three years around 3 billion. 500 million. lv. The question is, why hasn't the goal been achieved? So the issue is serious, it is really a resource of the state which, naturally at this level of education, cannot go anywhere other than before the Agency for Social Assistance, before the aid services and to appear in a serious burden on the Bulgarian society. But here this Law cannot solve this problem. This Law gives opportunities, it regulates the rules, it regulates the respective policy of the Bulgarian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u174	Mr. Bayraktarov's lines? Here you go, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u175	Thank you. Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Bayraktarov! On the one hand, I am pleased that the emphasis that we have put on the problem today with 23% of children who do not go to the middle level was due to an early dropout, either because of a lack of motivation, even after a completed basic education, is a serious problem that we need to resolve with common efforts. My line to you is about your thesis that the tenth grade is enough for a citizen to already work as a chef in the field of services. Perhaps so, but I would recommend that we refrain from these, because we will appear in sharp contrast with the 2020 Strategy of the European Union, which talks about massaging even higher education. It is not worthy to set lower goals than the objectives set in the European Union Strategy. As far as the lasting solution to these 23% problems is concerned, let us assume that you correctly refer to which social and ethnic groups this problem relates, then the solution is indeed pre-school. If 80 - 90% of Bulgarian Roma drop out of school, that is exactly the percentage of those Roma who do not pass through kindergarten before entering the first grade. We are deeply convinced that the solution is there. Unfortunately, our proposals for a targeted national program to cover all Roma children in children's buildings and other forms of pre-school preparation at this stage does not meet understanding. However, we will not tire of asking this question, because the issue of Roma integration is perhaps the most important issue related to Bulgaria's national security as well. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u176	Second line? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u177	Madam President, honourable Members! I will continue the thought of my colleague before me about Mr. Bajraktarov's thesis that he can complete the tenth grade, but with well acquired and mastered professional knowledge it does not matter what document you will receive. Look, about the 23 percent that we're talking about, I guess you're aware that primary education graduates are at such an age that, apart from parents' desire, personal motivation may be the greater factor for them to continue their education because they're conscious people. At the same time, you say that when they receive their primary education diploma and last another two years, these two years have no bearing on their professional realization. Well, then I ask: if you complete the first degree of secondary education, that is, up to the tenth grade, when you got your secondary degree and are told that you will study for two more years, for which you will not receive any diploma, but will receive a certificate, as Mrs Marinova said, who are the students who will sign up to study these two years with what incentive?! You know when you sign up to learn something and qualify, the ultimate goal is, first, to get knowledge and skills, and second, to get a document that you possess such knowledge and skills. However, you say the following: they take their primary education diploma where they have learned a profession and then receive a certificate that they have graduated from tenth grade. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Secondly, the other thesis that a direct analogy can be made between the completion of primary education, the initial degree in primary education and that degree. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Well, you can't, because when you graduate, you have behind your back a degree in basic education, and in fourth grade, you have nothing. This will stimulate dropping and the percentages will be more than 23%.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u178	Third line? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u179	Thank you, Madam President. I'll start my back with Mr. Zablyanov's answer. Mr. Zablyanov, all the words you've written to me, I say I didn't say anything. There's a transcript, you can check it out. Be so kind as not to put words in my mouth that I didn't say. I said something quite different, but I guess you weren't listening very carefully. This is as far as I'm gonna go. As far as what Mr. Mestan said is concerned, I didn't intentionally want to incentivize the matter. Yeah, just a few days ago, I was going over the background check. We don't have to go there. I think that's the right approach. However, we also should not close our eyes, because the data shows that the 23 percent, I would even say are more than 23%, but let us take the statistics of the institutes to be correct, the analysis of the numbers and the structure of the population shows, unfortunately, that these are places with marginal parts of the population. I'm saying again, I'm not gonna get any ethnicity. [[Relations from the left part of the hall.]] The problem is serious, extremely serious. We can safely say that marginalisation of the population has in all ethnicities depending on what geographical areas it lives in. It was no accident that I transferred her discussion to art. 53. Again, I would like to say that education must actually go in line with the economic needs and development of a country. Everything else turns education into a hollow system and we come to the absurd production, unfortunately, graduates who turn out to be working with higher education diplomas like bartenders, waiters and practically huge resources have gone in vain or we have given it to other countries, which is even worse. I trust you'll agree to that. Finally, in order to conclude the debate, you, Mr. Mestan, are well aware that the first stage of secondary school does not in any case deprive the student of the opportunity to take a mature exam, to complete the second stage and, accordingly, if he decides to apply to a higher school. Thank you. I'm making a procedural proposal. I think the debate is over and I suggest we end the debate on this article. [[Relations from the left part of the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u180	There's a procedural proposal. Before that, I announced that Mr. Yanaki Stoilov had a statement. You have the floor, Mr. Stoilov. I accept that there are no other speeches afterwards, and we will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u181	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like once again to draw your attention to the other discussion issue in this text: when to complete primary education after seventh or eighth grade? Here is the last opportunity to revise the current decision. The arguments can be educational, but to an even greater extent they are also social. I'm gonna miss the first ones because there's a reason to maintain both one and the other. However, let us not underestimate the fact that by proposing that the degree of primary education should end in eighth grade, we do not exclude in certain schools and under certain conditions apply after seventh grade and move on to the secondary degree. I think this flexible system is much better because it reflects complex realities. However, I would like to draw attention to the other social reasons, other than those I had the opportunity to ask, why it is better to finish after eighth grade. Mr. Mestan, I think you've done well to participate in this discussion, except for the mother tongue, because this is the other key element of the Law. Perhaps Professor. Stanilov, who finds a slightly easier explanation for the characterology of some of the ethnic groups, was not at Lom's port at the end of May or in June, when mass celebrations were held there and many of the children from the Gypsy quarter celebrate their proms not after the 12th grade, but after the graduation of primary school. Many of them, especially girls, are then oriented not so much how they will continue their education, but how they will switch to other activities concerning possibly family, childbirth or finding a certain livelihood. So at this age, one year is not small in both personal development and in the maturation of children, adolescents, and girls. If they know that by attending the school for another year, they will receive a degree in primary education, it is not a small incentive for some of them to get close to the age of 16, when, as you know, they can work fully under certain conditions to marry and so on. Therefore, in this reality, when we have very early dropouts children, another even greater share that does not reach secondary education, raising with this one year apart from the opportunities for full basic education, helps to solve severe social and demographic problems, not entirely, no one here has illusions, but in this case the school becomes one of the decisive factors. These are our motives to offer an even distribution of education between the initial, the main stage and the completion of secondary education. We appeal not as some kind of self-sustaining discussion or clichés that prejudge one or the other solution, and we ask you once again to support our proposal. I see there's a similar proposal from the Patriotic Front, I heard the same from the DPS. Leaving from today's Bulgarian realities, we must make laws that lead to solving problems, not deepening them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u182	- What's the line? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 96 MPs: 20, against 40, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 111 MPs: 37 against 60 abstentions 14. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the Commission's proposal to vote in favour of the text of the importer for art. 71, which becomes art. 73. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. They voted 115 MPs: for 83, against 11, abstention 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u183	Under art. 72 has a proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 72 the following changes shall be made: 1. A new para is being created. 4. The profiled education in music, fine art and choreography is carried out in the middle grade at the first and second high school stage through general education and profiled training. It can also be complemented by enhanced training to the primary educational degree. 2. Alinea 4 becomes an al. 5. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: A new para is being created. 4. The education profiled in the first and second high school, through the general education and profiled training. It can also be complemented by the expanded preparation. Alinea 4 becomes an al. 5. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the National Representative, Christian Vigenin, is identical: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: A new para is being created. 4 and the present becomes al. 5. The profiled education in music, fine art and choreography is carried out in the middle grade at the first and second high school stage through general education and profiled training. It can also be complemented by the expanded preparation. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 72 para. 3 is amended as follows: supplied education is provided to the average degree by learning to acquire general education and profiling training. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 72 The general, profiled and vocational education in specialized schools is also provided by training to acquire specialized training. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 72, which becomes Art. 74.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u184	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u185	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, there are three proposals made by various MPs from two parliamentary groups, which concern schools where children can receive secondary education with a profile of Unfortunately, in the Commission, these texts have not been supported, but I would like to draw your attention, as the final decision is being taken today in the National Assembly and perhaps you in the electoral areas from which you come, you know that there are such schools. These are schools with rather long traditions and very serious achievements of young people who are trained in them. They created their association a few months ago, including 26 schools across the country. Right during the meetings that we have all had in discussing the draft law, we were made proposals for these texts. Therefore, I would like to draw your attention to them once again, because if only the introductions, supported by the Commission, will actually interrupt the education of music, fine art and choreography in these schools with a profile of secondary education precisely. This will have a negative consequence for the students' education. Two years of interruption of preparation for a musician or dancer can have a bad consequence, lead them to uncompetitiveness in this field or force them to compensate for their preparation with private lessons. And another proposal that relates to the text on para. 5 in the text we are discussing in which there is a specific record that general, profiled and vocational education in specialized schools is also provided by training to acquire specialized training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u186	- What's the line? Mrs. Damyanova, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u187	Dear Mrs. Boyadjieva, dear colleagues! I call you for a responsible attitude towards the Bill, for a careful reading of the texts. For a long time, I think seven months we commented on them in the Commission, explaining the new philosophy of the Bill. This is not a mechanical accumulation of words that we have united into a bill. Here we follow another logic of the preparation and it was very well explained to us by both the colleagues of the Ministry of Education and by us as importers. I suggest we stop with the ridiculous speculation about the Bill. No music and art training is interrupted in the first high school stage. Types of profiled and professional training as a name and content are shifted in the XI and XIII grade. In VIII, IX and X-class these schools, like language high schools, like mathematical high schools, will continue to study foreign language, mathematics, music, fine art, choreography through expanded training, i.e. knowledge and skills they remain from VIII to X grade. The training will not be interrupted and these schools will study according to the relevant curriculum, which will have a curriculum for language schools, which will have a curriculum for mathematical schools and so on. I ask you very carefully to read the texts, to read if it is general education, which is extended training, which is professional and profiled, and to stop causing embarrassment in the system, because we do no good to anyone, much less to children and teachers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u188	Second line? A hole, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u189	Mrs. President, Mrs. Damyanova, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we take this discussion extremely seriously and we read the texts carefully. However, I think that in addition to reading the texts, I think we need to convince both the professional community and the parents. This did not happen during the discussion of the Bill. And no matter what we have read, it will still remain the law and not be done as with the texts about the secondary schools, where you convinced us of these and eventually turned out to be the fact that there is no such record de facto. Therefore, we pay attention to what has been offered by teachers, by parents and what matters to those students who are in specialized schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u190	Any other MPs who wish to speak? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Svetla Bachvarova and a group of Members of the National Assembly "The Commission does not support it. They voted 97 MPs: 16 against 50, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Milen Mihov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 98 MPs: 20, against 49, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on Christian Vigenin's proposal "The Commission does not support it. They voted 93 MPs: 12, against 51, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal by Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 15 against 59, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for art. 72, which becomes Art. 74. They voted 99 MPs: 84, against 13, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u191	Section II "School training" "Actuality and content". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 73, which becomes Art. 75.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u192	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of Section II and art. 73 with its new numbering................................................................................ 75. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u193	Article 74. A proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 74 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) in para. 4 words can be studied and the subject of study is replaced by the words "I to XII class" and the subject of study is studied professionally and the "Religion" (with the option of alternative choice of non-confessional subject "Ethics") in the classes of sections "A" and "B" and "B" in the curriculum, "B" and "B" in the curriculum; (b) in para. 7 the following content is added: The study subjects under para. 4 shall be studied by study programmes established by the Minister of Education and Science and by the supreme authority of the respective religion (confession). The study programs also determine the number of hours of study. Proposal from the National Representative Mariana Todorova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from MP Stanislav Stanilov. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 74 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) in para. 4 words can be studied and the subject of study is replaced by the words "I to XII class" and the subject of study is studied professionally (with the possibility of alternative choice of non-confessional subject "Ethics") in the classes of sections "A" and "B" and "B" in the curriculum. (b) in para. 7 the following content is added: The study subjects under para. 4 shall be studied by study programmes established by the Minister of Education and Science and by the supreme authority of the respective religion (confession). The study programs also determine the number of hours of study. A proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission generally supports the proposal under para. 5th sentence first. The proposal is withdrawn under para. 5th sentence, second sentence. A proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 74, para. 3, at the end of the text, after the word "Horeography" a comma is placed and the expression "Beyond" stated in the State Educational Standard for Educational Content in the General Educational Training and in the State Educational Standard for Educational Content in the Profiled Training is added. A proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 74 the following changes are made: (a) para. 1 "In the process of school education is studied compulsory and the study subject is studied "Maichin language"; (b) para. Article 7 74 is amended by adding a new sentence: The number of classes in the course of the class is at least 4 hours per week. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The proposal has been withdrawn under paragraph 1. 1. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2. A proposal from MP Miho Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Christian Vigenin. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 74 para. 3 acquires the following version: In the course of school education, the subject of study can also be studied, beyond those specified in the State Educational Standard for Educational Content in general education and in the State Educational Standard for Educational Content in the Profiled Training. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Milen Mihov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Mariana Todorova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 74, which becomes Art. 76: Art. 76. (1) In the process of school education can be studied the study subject Mother tongue. (2) In the course of school education, the foreign language study subject may also be studied outside the specified foreign languages in the state educational standard for general education and in the state educational standard for the profiled training. (3) In the process of school education the study subject Choreography can also be studied. (4) In the process of school education, religions are studied in historical, philosophical and cultural terms through the educational content of different subjects. Under the terms and conditions of this law in the process of school education, the study subject of Religion can also be studied. (5) In the process of school education, learning subjects in the field of global, civil, health and intercultural education, entrepreneurship, personal finance management and programming, home, population and environment protection, educational subjects that form national self-esteem, patriotic spirit and patriotism in children and students, expanding and supplementing content that is integrated in other educational subjects can also be studied. (6) In special schools for students with sensory disabilities outside the types of training under art. 75, para. 2 mandatory training in special subjects shall also be carried out. (7) The educational subjects under para. 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 are studied according to the curriculum established by the Minister of Education and Science. Study programs also determine the number of hours of study. (8) The educational subjects under para. 5 are studied by curriculum approved by the principal of the school. The study programs also determine the number of hours of study.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u194	Statements? Mr. Mestan goes first.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u195	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I call for responsible debates under art. 76 and, in particular, on our proposal on the study of the mother tongue. Debates aren't from yesterday. However, there are two main reasons why this debate is rather coming out of the field of expert analysis and enters the territories of self-target patriotic exercises. The main reason is that the study of the mother tongue opposes the study of the official Bulgarian language. Please also consult specialists. This opposition is absolutely unfounded and unacceptable because learning the mother tongue as a natural, inalienable right, being a condition for the normal, harmonious development of the personality, not only does it not appear to be contrary to the need to learn the official Bulgarian language as a constitutional obligation, but vice versa, it is an important prerequisite for quality absorption and the official language. I'll put it simply: a man who doesn't speak his mother tongue can't even learn the official language. It's the dialectic link. It's an official language. The current state policy regarding mother tongue learning is formal. It's a policy of imitation. The objectives of this training are not clear. There are no state standards for learning content. From there there there are no state standards with what competences should the initial stage, primary education or secondary education be completed a student studying his mother tongue. Dear colleagues, the second fundamental reason is that because language is undoubtedly the most important marker of identity, in Bulgaria there is an understanding of identity as a potential risk to the unity of the nation from there and to national security. We must overcome these prejudices. Our proposal aims at something very simple to turn, I would like Mr. Stoilov to hear me, to turn a right into an obligation, but rather we aim to settle the obligations of the state in terms of providing conditions for learning the mother tongue. If necessary, we will adopt an amendment to remove the doubts that this is our ultimate goal. We are ready for an editorial amendment, which reads: the subject is studied in the Section of the study subject, the state is obliged to provide conditions for the study of the language of the language, but the right of the child concerned and his parents is whether they will benefit from this right. We're turning around! We aim for the state to provide the conditions required to study the language, and whether I take advantage of my right is my right. That's what we understand. That's what we're after with the proposal. What does the law do? Ms. Damyanova, the Law repealed the Law on the Study Plan, the general educational minimum and the distribution of the study time. This Law laid down the minimum hours per week in which a mother tongue is studied from three to four hours, plus an opportunity to study and as freely selective preparation, except for the hours of compulsory election. This Law, the new draft, which repeals the special law on the curriculum, takes a decisive step backwards. You're comparing mother tongue to choreography. It was no accident that in your first project the mother tongue and choreography were in one provision, but now you have divided them into neighboring ones and think that you have changed something. No! The same humiliating approach is preserved, albeit in two adjacent paragraphs. The greatest risk, what we really think is a retreat, with very strong doubts about potential discrimination, is that the legal guarantees for learning a mother tongue, at least three hours a week, are now cancelled. [[the chairman gives a sign that time has run out]] and have been transferred to the field of the Minister's subjective right to determine the number of hours. I have no doubt in Mr. Tanev that he will save three or four hours for the corresponding classes. Well, if tomorrow the Minister of Education is a man of special understandings and according to para. Article 7 76 in the Commission's version considered that the mother tongue is studied not three, but one hour only? Where is the bail by law against this risk? [[The President gives a sign that the time has expired.]] That provision is therefore categorically unacceptable to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. [[(Calls from the bottom of the room: Time!]] And we will continue the battle for a stable, precise legal status...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u196	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. I gave you a sign that your speaking time has expired.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u197	... In mother tongue as natural and inalienable law. Thanks for the time. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u198	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u199	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Why did we not support this proposal by Mr Mestan and his group in the Commission, and why are we not going to support it today? Firstly, because it is unacceptable from the point of view of European values and of European standards, and before I open a word to be replicated, I would refer to a fundamental document that our partners and friends love to quote the Convention on National Minorities. In it in art. 3 It is clearly defined the right of a representative of such a national minority to benefit or not to avail himself of the rights granted to him under this Convention, which means in practice that every citizen has the right to benefit from or not benefit from certain rights granted to him by this Convention, to which he is Bulgaria and in this case he has the right to translate it by virtue of this legal text, to study or not to study the mother tongue in that definition. Next, the statistics show that in the last ten years the study of Turkish as a mother tongue in Bulgarian schools has halved. According to the Ministry of Education and Science in 2004, approximately 18 thousand children studied Turkish, that is, so many families benefited from this right. Today, as of 2013, 2014 they are half. I do not know whether by law we should reverse this trend and oblige parents to send their children to these classes or choose other classes that guarantee them better qualifications, better skills, better realization in the Republic of Bulgaria and in the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u200	Assimilation is better!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u201	Thanks for that line. You often accuse us of assimilation. We are talking about integration, about integration based on the traditional Bulgarian national culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u202	First line, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u203	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Mihov, remember that at last integration without a preserved identity is assimilation. There's no other definition of assimilation. From this point of view, identity is a condition for integration, while assimilation is a total anthonym exactly of identity and hence integration. I have a very simple question for you: Are you okay with this, because we strongly agree and will fight for this as Bulgarian politicians, Bulgarians from the Western suburbs, Bessarab Bulgarians in Ukraine, Moldova to study their native Bulgarian language [[Applause from DPS]] With a guaranteed number of hours in the weekly program? [[Noise and lines.]] And if the Ukrainian law, which envisioned at least four hours a week for Bulgarian language for the Bulgarians in Ukraine, changed so that this guarantee is already becoming a subjective right of the Ukrainian minister to determine the number of hours, would you agree? Your battle for Bulgarians abroad can only be successful if your policy on Bulgarians across the border is symmetrical in policy towards internal minorities. No one will respect double standards. And in conclusion, once again: our proposal does not aim to turn a right into an obligation. Our proposal aims to settle the obligations of the state. This trend of decline in the number of children studying their mother tongue is an exact argument in favor of the DPS proposal, because this decline is due to a wrong and vicious state policy and not a lack of motivation. There's motivation. Studying mother tongue is a cultural need and it will be realized despite your resistance. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u204	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u205	Mr. Mestan, thank you for that line. You very correctly said: the battle for Bulgarians abroad. Yes, we are fighting this battle, but we are also fighting the battle for the Bulgarians within our borders. [[Laughter and excitement in DPS.]] We believe that every Bulgarian, who is a good citizen, respects the laws, pays his taxes I would say: he served in the army, served in the army and is ready to defend Bulgaria without a difference of his gender, race, religious differences and ethnicity is a pure Bulgarian and a good patriot. This, Mr. Mestan, is written in the Statute of our organization IMRO since 1905. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause by PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u206	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 96 MPs: 10, against 44, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Stanislav Stanilov's proposal. The Commission does not support it. They voted 103 MPs: 13 against 35, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Stanilov. You hope that representatives of your group will enter the Chamber and support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u207	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, what did she come up with? That for the spiritual and moral development of the Bulgarian people are only 13 people in the hall. Isn't it funny, if not disgraceful?! We offer one supplement: "Spirit and moral development." You are voting against. Only 13 are for. The proposal of my colleague Iskren Veselinov, who should go out and say the same thing. We propose to include in education this trend for spiritual and moral development. You're voting against it. One of you is not going to do it now, after my speech, to make a line and say: "We are against spiritual and moral development. We will only develop, as they say, immoral development! - Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u208	It's a re-vote. They voted 107 MPs: 13 against 33, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on Mrs. Svetla Bachvarova's proposal, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 113 MPs: 23, against 60, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the proposal of Mr Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 116 MPs: 28, against 61, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. First negative vote, Julian Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u209	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I express my negative vote with the following motives because the proposal made by the DPS aims through their feudal mayors on the ground, especially in the Rhodopes, where the mother tongue is Bulgarian and not Turkish, the Bulgarians will be Turkized, as well as the gypsy population in different villages and neighborhoods. For this reason, we from the Patriotic Front strongly opposed and voted against, because with measures to impose on Bulgarian citizens rights, things are not being done. It is important for us to say that for the things that were said by this tribune concerning Bulgarians abroad, it is a little embarrassing for the DPS to talk about them, provided that by their parliamentary group in the various committees never support anything related to Bulgarians behind the borders or do not vote or vote against. I suggest that you speak up and talk about the rights of the Bulgarians abroad, stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u210	And thank you, Mr. Angelov. Any other MPs? I won't. Second negative vote? I won't. We're going further with the vote. The other proposals of the Members of the National Assembly are supported by the Commission or partially withdrawn. There's another unsupported proposal from Mr. Vigenin. I put to the vote Mr Vigenin's proposal, not supported by the Commission. They voted 109 MPs: 9 against 60 abstentions 40. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 74, supported by the Commission, which becomes art. 76, in its version of the Commission report. They voted 105 MPs: 84, against 12, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Mr. Merdjanov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u211	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria we want a half hour rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u212	I'm calling a 20-minute break. At 1:55 p.m., we're trying to collect the quorum. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u213	I ask the Members of the National Assembly to take their seats. Ms. Marinova, art. 75 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u214	Thank you, Madam President. Article 75 "A proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 75, para. 1, t. 9 After the words the words "sustainable" are added the words "successful" development. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov is identical with that of the National Representative Iskren Veselinov. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Boyka Marinska and group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 75 para. 1 the following changes are made: 1. 8 acquires the following content: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 8. cultural competences and 2. t. 9 acquires the following content: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 9. Healthy competences and sports. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 75 the following changes are made: (a) in para. 1 is created a new point 2: "2." competences for oral and written communication in the mother tongue; b) of t. 2 to t. 9 by importer shall be renumbered from 3 to 10. (c) in para. 2 of art. 75 after the expression "Maichin language" the expression "Maichin language" is added. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by MP Miho Mihov and group of MPs: In Chapter Six, Article 6 (2) is replaced by the following: 75, para 1, t. 6 after the social and civic competences, to add the text and models of behavior for cooperation and cooperation, and the point acquires the following wording: Art. 75, para. 1, item 6 "social and civic competences and models of cooperation and cooperation behaviours." To art. 75 para.1 to create a new item. 10 with text "Main Skills for Action and Conduct in Extreme Situations." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 75 (1) After the word, the expression "Theoretical and practical training system" shall be added, ensuring the mastery of the defined educational content and the formation of the following key competences. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Marinova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 75, which becomes Art. 77: Art. 77. (1) The general education shall cover the following groups of key competences: 1. competences in the field of Bulgarian language; 2. skills for communication in foreign languages; 3. mathematical competence and basic competences in the field of natural sciences and technology; 4. digital competence; 5. learning skills; 6. social and civic competences; 7. initiative and initiative; 8. cultural competence and skills for expression through creativity; 9. skills to support sustainable development and healthy lifestyles and sports. (2) The general education shall be acquired through the study of general educational subjects. (3) The objectives, content and characteristics of the general education training, as well as the general educational subjects under para. 2 shall be determined by the state educational standard for general education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u215	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, identical with the proposal of the MP Stanislav Stanilov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 84 MPs: 11 against 6, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on a proposal by Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 9 against 57 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: for 4, against 53, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for an unsupported proposal by Mr. Mihov and a group of MPs. Vote 80 MPs: 11 against 9, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 83 MPs: for 4, against 57, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 75 by importer, which becomes art. 77 in the numbering and in the version of the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 84, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u216	Proposal by the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs for the creation of a new art. 75a. A new Article 75a shall be inserted with the following content: Art. 75a. (1) The general education is determined by the purpose of the Bulgarian school to provide every Bulgarian citizen with the opportunity to develop fully. (2) The general education shall be built on the principles of respect for: 1. basic human rights; 2. the rights of the child; 3. the traditions of Bulgarian culture and education; 4. the achievements of world culture and education; 5. the values of civil society; 6. freedom of conscience and freedom of thought. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal by the MP Stanislav Stanilov is identical with the proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs is identical with the previous two proposals. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u217	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposals of the MPs Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, Stanislav Stanilov, and Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs to create a new art. 75a, which are identical proposals, the Commission does not support them. They voted 96 MPs: 19 against 43 abstention 34. The proposals have not been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u218	Proposal by the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs for the creation of a new art. 75b: A new Article 75b shall be created with the following content: Art. 75b. The main objectives of general education are: 1. to promote the physical and spiritual development of the student, its successful orientation, adaptation and realization in society; 2. to create conditions for the formation of value orientations related to the feeling of Bulgarian national identity, respect for the other, empathy and civic responsibility; 3. to create conditions for developing needs, interests and attitudes for learning and training and cultivation throughout life. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Stanislav Stanilov, which is identical with the proposal I have just read from the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. A proposal from the MP Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs, which is also identical with the previous two proposals. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u219	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposals of Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs; Stanislav Stanilov; Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs who are identical to a new art. 75b and not supported by the Commission. They voted 100 MPs: 17 against 44, abstention 39. The proposals have not been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u220	Proposal by the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs for the creation of a new art. 75c: A new Article 75c shall be created with the following content: Art. 75c. The general education training at the Bulgarian school is carried out through the study of educational subjects grouped in the following cultural and educational areas: 1. Bulgarian language and literature; 2. foreign languages; 3. mathematics, informatics and information technologies; 4. public sciences and civil education; 5. religion and ethics; 6. natural sciences and ecology; 7. arts; 8. bit and technology; 9. physical culture and sport. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from MP Stanislav Stanilov, which is not supported by the Commission. The difference with the proposal of Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs is in point. 5 "Confidence and Ethics." The rest of the proposal is identical. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs, where so. 5 is a different "natural sciences and ecology" instead of educating and ethic and "religion and ethics" in the previous two proposals. The rest is identical.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u221	Statements? I won't. Here I will put the proposals to the vote separately. I put to the vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support because of the distinction in the editorials of the House. 5. 90 MPs voted: 16 against 4, 70 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on Mr. Stanilov's proposal, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 16 against 5, abstention 71. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 12, Against 56, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u222	Proposal by the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs for the creation of a new art. 75d: A new Article 75d shall be created with the following content: Art. Seventy-five years. (1) The educational areas shall be consistent with the defined objectives of general education and shall create a choice within the school curriculum. (2) Each cultural and educational area shall provide a mutual link between the different educational subjects. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov for the creation of a new art. 75 years, which is identical to that of the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. A proposal from the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs, which is distinguished only by the fact that at the end of para. 2 after educational subjects... in it.................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u223	Which is more like editing, and in a sense, it's the same thing. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposals of Iskren Veselinov and a group, Stanislav Stanilov and Valeri Zablyanov and a group not supported by the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: 17 against 39, abstention 45. The proposals have not been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u224	Under art. 76 a proposal has been received by the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal by the National Representative Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. Art. 79, Art. 81. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 76, which becomes Art. 78: Art. 78. (1) On the basis of the state educational standard for general education, the Minister of Education and Science shall establish training programmes for each general educational subject for each class, specifying the competences of the students as expected results of the training. (2) Exemptions under para. 1 shall be allowed for innovative schools for which the school director in accordance with the state educational standard for general education may validate training programmes for one or more general educational subjects for the relevant stage. (3) Foreign language courses in the two high school secondary education stages shall be validated by levels of competence in accordance with the Common European Language Framework.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u225	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 76 by importer, which becomes art. 78 as amended by the Commission report. Vote 87 MPs: 79 against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u226	Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 79. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 77, which becomes Article 77. 79: Art. 79. (1) For students who are trained under individual curricula, individual curricula shall be validated on the basis of the curricula under art. 78. (2) Individual curricula shall be validated by the Director on a proposal from the team for support for personal development. (3) The structure, conditions and procedure for validating individual curricula shall be determined by the state educational standard for inclusive education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u227	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 79 on the Commission's report in its version. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u228	Article 78 supposed by the National Representative Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 78, which becomes Art. 80: Art. 80. (1) The general education in the basic degree of education shall be the same for all types of schools and shall be acquired by studying the same general education subjects and by the same number of teaching hours for each of them determined by the state educational standard for the curriculum. (2) Exemptions under para. 1 shall be allowed for evening, background and individual training, as well as training in sports schools, arts schools and schools in prisons. (3) Exemptions under para. 1 on the number of hours with which separate general education subjects are studied are also allowed for innovative schools.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u229	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 80 in its version of the Commission report. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u230	Article 79 supposed by the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs: The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Mariana Georgieva, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Stephanie Mihailova and the National Representative Boyka Marinska, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 79, which becomes Art. 81. Art. 81. (1) The distribution of general education subjects to acquire general education in the average grade of education by grade, as well as the number of hours of study for each of them for each class and stage of the average grade shall be defined in framework study plans established according to the type of education and according to the specific and form of training. (2) The framework study plans under para. 1 shall be determined by the state educational standard for the curriculum. (3) For the acquisition of general education in language schools at least three study subjects outside the foreign language study subject, both in IX and in the X class are studied in a foreign language.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u231	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 81 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 94 MPs: 89, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u232	Art. 80. A proposal from the MP Christian Vigenin. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The 80th para is The extended preparation of music, fine art and choreography is financed by the state budget. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: Everywhere in the text of the Law, the words "extreme training" shall be replaced by "selectable training" and the words "supplementary and/or optional training" shall be replaced by "free-selectable training." A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Irena Kotseva, made according to the order of art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 80, which becomes Art. 82: Art. 82. (1) Advanced training shall cover competences which develop and improve separate competences from general education. (2) Advanced training shall be acquired by studying general educational subjects under art. 77, para. 2 intended for study in the process of school education, as well as in educational subjects under art. 76, para. 1, 3, 4 and 5. (3) The educational subjects through which the expanded training is acquired in the specific school shall be determined by the school curriculum depending on the interests of the students and the opportunities of the school. (4) The content of the expanded preparation of the relevant study subject for the relevant class, except for the educational subjects under art. 76, para. 1, 2, 3 and 4 shall be determined by curricula approved by the principal of the school.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u233	Statements? I won't. I'm voting on Mr. Vigenin's proposal. The Commission does not support it. They voted 99 MPs: 11 against 63, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. Vote 95 MPs: 9 against 65, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 82 in its version of the Commission report. 99 MPs voted: 87, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u234	Article 81 supposed by the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: Art. 81, para. 3, p. 4 and 6 are deleted. A proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 81, para. 3, p. 6 to be reported. A proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 81 the following changes are made: 1. In para. 3, p. 10 is changed to music and choreography. 2. A new para is being created. 5 The profiled preparation of music, fine art and choreography is acquired in the first and second high school stages of secondary education by studying the profiling classes included in the relevant profile. 3. Alinei 5 "9" becomes 6 "10" respectively. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 81, para. 3, p. 10, to acquire the edit: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 10 music and choreography. A new para is being created. 5. The profiled education in Music, Fine Arts and Choreography is acquired in the first and second high school secondary education stages by studying the profiling educational subjects included in the respective profile. Alinei 5 "9" becomes 6 "10" A proposal from the MP Christian Vigenin. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 81 is created a new para. 5 and previous paragraphs 5 to 9 shall be renumbered into paras 5 to 9. 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10: The profiled preparation of music, fine art and choreography is acquired in the first and second high school secondary education stages by studying the profiled educational subjects included in the respective profile. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs: "Towards Art. 81 (3) A new 12: is created I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 12. choreography. Art. 81 (4) is amended as follows: The profiled training is acquired at the high school secondary education stage by studying the profiling educational subjects included in the relevant profile. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 81 is For the acquisition of profiling training, a foreign language may also be studied by the study subject outside the specified foreign languages in the state educational requirements for profiling training. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 81, which becomes Art. 83: Art. 83. (1) The profiled preparation shall cover in-depth competences in a given profile defined by the state educational standard for the profiled preparation. (2) The profile shall be a complex of profiling educational subjects, two of which shall be determined by the state educational standard under para. 1 and the rest are defined by the school with the school curriculum and are the same for the 19th and 19th grade. (3) Profiles shall be: 1. foreign languages; 2. humanities; 3. social sciences; 4. economic development; 5. software and hardware sciences; 6. entrepreneurial; 7. mathematically; 8. natural sciences; 9. Fine art; 10. music; 11. Physical education and sports. (4) The profiled training shall be acquired in the second high school secondary education stage by studying the profiling educational subjects included in the relevant profile. (5) Each profiling study subject shall consist of mandatory and optional modules. The module is a separate part of the relevant profiling study subject. (6) Required modules for each profiling study subject shall be determined by the state educational standard for the profiled training. (7) On the basis of the state educational standard for the profiled preparation, the Minister of Education and Science shall establish curricula for compulsory modules. (8) The elective modules shall acquire competences defined in the curricula established by the principal of the school. Training programmes can be developed in cooperation with higher schools and representatives of employers and non-profit legal entities. (9) The objectives, content and characteristics of the profiled preparation, as well as the conditions for determining the profiling items, shall be governed by the state educational standard for the profiled preparation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u235	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, we are voting on the Commission's unsupported proposal from MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. They voted 96 MPs: for 9, against 3, abstention 84. The offer is not accepted. Following is a proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs, the Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 93 MPs: 9 against 4, 80 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. A proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 94 MPs: 14 against 58, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs... The Commission does not support the proposal. Vote 94 MPs: 15 against 11, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on a proposal from the Member of Parliament, Christian Vigenin, which the Commission does not support, which we are not voting on unsupported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 18, Against 55, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. 88 MPs voted: 9 against 59, 20 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. Art. 81, which becomes Art. 83 by importer, following the version of the Commission. We are voting on a text edited by the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 86, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Continue with art. 82.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u236	Under art. 82 has a proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 82 new paras are being created. 4, 5 and 6, the other paragraphs shall be renumbered respectively: According to its objectives, content and characteristics, professional training is mandatory and expanded. (5) The compulsory professional training for each profession shall be general, industry and specific. (6) Advanced vocational training shall include competences that complement and/or improve competences from compulsory vocational training and may therefore be extended to a general, extended industry or expanded specific. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 82, which becomes Art. 84: Art. 84. (1) Professional training shall cover the competences necessary for the acquisition of professional qualifications, as well as for the acquisition of professional competence, the exercise of which it requires, including for the pursuit of regulated professions. (2) Professional training shall ensure the achievement of the state educational standard for the acquisition of qualification by profession in the two secondary stages of the average degree of education. (3) The professional training for each profession shall be general, industry, specific and extended and shall include training in the theory and practice of the profession. (4) The objectives, content and characteristics of the types of professional training shall be defined in the Law on Vocational Education and Training.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u237	Thank you. Statements? There aren't any. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, we are voting unsupported by the Commission a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. 88 MPs voted: 8 against 58, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. Art. 82, which becomes Art. 84 by importer after version of the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u238	Under art. 83 has a proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and group. The Commission does not support the proposal: Art. 83 (3) is amended as follows: The content of the specialized training in the relevant specialized subject for each class shall be defined in the curriculum established by: 1. the Minister of Education and Science for Mathematical and Mathematical Schools; 2. the Minister of Culture for the Arts and Culture Schools; 3. The Minister of Physical Education and Sports for Sports Schools. Proposal of the National Representative Irena Kotseva, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 83, which becomes Art. 85: Art. 85. (1) Additional training shall cover competences corresponding to the interests of the students and supporting the development of their abilities. (2) The educational subjects, modules and activities through which the additional training is acquired shall be offered by the school according to its capabilities, selected by the students according to their interests and determined by the school curriculum. (3) The content of the additional preparation, except for the study subjects under art. 76, para. 1, 2, 3 and 4 shall be defined in the curricula established by the principal of the school.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u239	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. We are voting first on the proposal by the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 16 against 58 abstentions 13. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. Art. 83, which becomes Art. 85 by importer after the Commission's version. Vote 80 MPs: 76, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u240	There is a proposal from the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. A new article shall be created. 83a: Art. 83a. The content of the training in special schools is defined in curricula approved by the Minister of Health, agreed with the Minister of Education and Science. Under art. 84, there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 84, para. 4 after the word "confirmed" the words shall be added by the Minister of Education and Science and shall be added. A proposal from the MP Stanislav Stanilov, which is identical with that of the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Art. 84, para. 1 is amended as follows: (1) Specialized training shall be acquired in specialized schools through training in the field of mathematics, sport, culture or art respectively, or through religious training. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 84, which becomes Art. 86: Art. 86. (1) Specialized training shall be acquired in specialized schools through training in the field of sport, culture or art respectively, or through religious training. (2) Specialized training shall be acquired through the study of specialized educational subjects defined in the relevant type study plan established by the Minister of Education and Science. (3) The content of the specialized preparation of the relevant specialized study subject for each class shall be determined in the curricula established by: 1. the Minister of Culture for the Arts and Culture Schools; 2. The Minister of Youth and Sports for Sports Schools. (4) The content of the specialized training in specialized teachings for religious education in spiritual schools shall be determined in educational programs established under the conditions and by the order of the creed agreed with the Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u241	Statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u242	I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Valeri Zablyanov's proposal, which the Commission does not support to create a new member. Vote 88 MPs: 16 against 57 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. Proposal for amendment to art. 84 of Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission, identical with Mr. Stanilov's proposal. Vote 79 MPs: 13 against 30, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group not supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 12, against 60, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 86 in its version of the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 81, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u243	The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u244	Statements? I can't see. We are voting on Section III by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u245	Under art. 85 has a proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: Art. 85, para. 2 is amended as follows: The structure of the curriculum covers three sections: 1. Section A supposed classes and classes for their study; 2. Section B supplied educational subjects and teaching hours for their study; 3. Section C Art. 85, para. 3 is amended as follows: The special school plan for disabled students also includes section D.D. classes provided for the study of special classes. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 85, which becomes art. 87: Art. 87. (1) The study plan shall allocate the study time between the study subjects or modules for the acquisition of the school training. (2) The structure of the curriculum shall cover three sections: 1. Section A supposed hours of study; 2. Section B "Selectable hours of study; 3. Section C (3) The special school plan for students with sensory impairment shall also include section D.. hours of study provided for special classes..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u246	Statements? I won't. We are going to vote on an unsupported proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. They voted 87 MPs: 13 against 56, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 85 by importer, which becomes art. 87 in the version of the Commission. We are voting for the text supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 72, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u247	Under art. 86 has a proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 86 the following changes shall be made: A new para is being created. 3: In schools with advanced and profiled art studies, music, fine art and choreography, training for the acquisition of extended and profiled training can also take place in compulsory classes instead of physical education and sports, music and art. Alinea 3 becomes al. 4. Proposal from the National Representative Polina Karastoyanova. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 86 to create para. 4. ==References====External links==*"The hours of para. 1 designated for sport, including chess and physical education under art. 21, para. 3 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports cannot be less than three hours a week and cannot be used for other purposes. Proposal by the National Representative Milen Mihov and a group of MPs, almost identical, with only one editorial amendment, compared to the proposal of the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova before the art of art. 3 appears the word................................................................... In the rest it is identical with the proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. A proposal from the MP Christian Vigenin. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 86, para. 2 after the art class the expression "Schools with extended and profiled study of music, fine art and choreography" is added. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: Art. 86, para. 2 is amended as follows: In sports schools, persons and art schools, training for the acquisition of specialized training can also be carried out in the required classes, instead of the classes "Mathematics" and "Physics" and "Physics," "Hymia" and "Biology" and "Physical education and sports" and "Musics" or "Physics" respectively. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 86, which becomes Art. 88: Art. 88. (1) Training for the acquisition of general education shall be carried out in compulsory classes and in vocational schools and in vocational training classes and in general vocational training. (2) In sports schools and arts schools, training for the acquisition of specialized training may also take place in compulsory classes, instead of physical education and sports, Music or respectively Fine Arts. (3) In the schools of culture, training for the acquisition of specialized language training in foreign languages outside the specified foreign languages in the state educational standard for general education may also take place in the compulsory classes provided for the foreign language study subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u248	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, we vote on the proposal by the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs together with the proposal of the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs who are almost identical and are not supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 16, against 52, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on a proposal from MP Polina Karastoyanova. The Commission does not support the proposal. Vote 81 MPs: 20, against 5, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Christian Vigenin, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 74 MPs: for no, against 54, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. The next vote is on a proposal from MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 5 against 64, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 86 by importer, which after the amendment of the Commission becomes art. 88. We are voting for the text supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 75, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u249	Under art. 87 has a proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 87, which becomes Art. 89: Art. 89. (1) Training for the acquisition of expanded training, profiled training and/or industry, specific and expanded vocational training as well as specialized training shall be carried out in the selected classes. (2) In the elective classes may also be studied the subjects under art. 76, para. 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u250	Statements? I won't. Please vote art. 87 by importer, which after editing of the Commission becomes art. 89. Please vote. Vote 80 MPs: 74, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u251	Under art. 88 has a proposal from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs: Art. 88 (1) is amended as follows: Art. 88 In the additional classes, training is carried out to acquire the additional training. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 88, which becomes Art. 90.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u252	Statements? I won't. We are voting for a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: 8 against 58, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 88 by importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes art. 90. Please vote. Vote 79 MPs: 73, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u253	Under art. 89 has a proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and group. The Commission generally supports the proposal under para. 1. The Commission does not support the proposal under para. 2: Art. 89. (2) t. 3 is amended as follows: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 3. the weekly and annual number of hours of study for each of the study subjects and/or modules included in Section A by classes, stages and degrees of education. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 89, which becomes Art. 91: Art. 91. (1) The state educational standard for the curriculum shall define framework curriculums by classes, stages and degrees of education depending on the type of education and specifics and forms of training. (2) The framework study plan shall contain: 1. the number of study weeks per class; 2. the names of the educational subjects and/or modules included in Section A; 3. the annual number of hours of study determined for the study of each of the subjects and/or modules included in Section A by classes, stages and degrees of education; 4. the total annual number of elective hours in Section B; 5. the maximum annual number of faculty hours in Section C
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u254	Statements? I won't. We are voting for a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Valeri Zablyanov in his unsupported part of the Commission. We are voting for the unsupported part of the proposal of the MP Valeri Zablyanov. Vote 81 MPs: 10, against 57, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 89 by importer, which after editing of the Commission becomes art. 91. Please vote. They voted 83 MPs: 75, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u255	Under art. 90 has a proposal from the MP Ivan Cholakov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 1. The proposal has been withdrawn under paragraph 1. 2. In Al. 2 after the word the Union shall be replaced by a comma, and after the word "Competences" a comma shall be placed and the words................................................................................... 74, para. 5. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The proposal is withdrawn under para. 2. The Commission generally supports the proposal under para. 2. Proposal by MP Miho Mihov and group of MPs: In Chapter 6, Section III, art. 90 para.1 after the text to add a new sentence to the annual study plan, up to 10 teaching hours are planned for the formation of basic skills for actions in extreme situations (fires, floods, earthquakes, mass fights, terrorist acts) and providing first aid and assistance as the subparagraph acquires the following editing: Art. 90 (1) Outside the hours of art. 85, para. 2 and 3 in the curriculum shall be included for each class, for each school week and one training hour for organizing and carrying out sports activities by choice, as well as one school hour per class. In the annual study plan, as determined by the school guide, up to 10 hours of training are planned for the formation of basic skills for action in extreme situations (fires, floods, earthquakes, mass fighting, terrorist acts), first aid and assistance. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: A new paragraph 5 shall be created with the following text: The topics in the annual action plan for extreme situations and practical training activities are developed and organized by the school guides with the attraction and participation of specialists from the Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Interior and Ministry of Interior. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The proposal has been made in its part after the word "sport". The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Milena Damyanova and the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev, made on the basis of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Marinova and the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov, made on the basis of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 90, which becomes Art. 92: Art. 92. (1) Outside the hours of art. 87, para. 2 and 3 in the curriculum shall be included for each class, for each school week and one training hour for organizing and carrying out sports activities established by the Minister of Education and Science on a proposal from the Minister of Youth and Sports, as well as one study hour per class. (2) The class hour shall be used for successive class development, for patriotic upbringing and for building civic competences, including through student self-government. (3) The organisation and conduct of sports activities under para. 1 is carried out by pedagogical specialists in the field of physical education and sport with professional qualification of a teacher. (4) The training and activities under para. 1 can be carried out in a block of hours depending on the problems and the needs of students in the class.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u256	Statements? Here you are, General Miho Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u257	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Deputy Minister! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 75 We accepted the key competences that the students of Bulgaria must acquire. In any case, my thesis was to analyse the issue of cooperation models and assistance to students, which the House rejected. There we really talked about the general training when it was possible for students to act adequately in an ecstatic situation, and now came art. 90, where these things are specified. Perhaps the House will reject them again, which is ambitious for me to propose to my colleagues and you in the future that we work for a new law not only for the military-patriotic but military-technical, emergency training of young people. Today, we are witnesses, and on the day before yesterday, that young ones, students, have a fight with each other. It is normal to spend their energy, but it goes not in the interest of the state and to strengthen the reproduction of the nation, but on the contrary, in bitterness, in opposition, in envy, even to murder and suicide. That's why our group proposed in art. 90 and here within just ten hours to prepare the children for action in fires, floods, mass fights and terrorist acts. The aim is to prepare them in two phases at least in the prevention phase for such events and in the liquidation phase of the consequences, in the sense of competences, mutual assistance and cooperation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u258	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, we are voting on the proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs in its part, not supported by this point. 1. We are voting on the unsupported part of the Commission for Mrs Marinska's proposal. Vote 78 MPs: 15 against 5, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by General Miho Mihov, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 27, against 2, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. Now we vote art. 90 by importer, which becomes art. 92 after the Commission's revision. Vote 81 MPs: for 80, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u259	Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal under para. 1 and 2. The Commission generally supports the proposal under para. 3 which is reflected in its systematic place in art. 92. Article 2 is created. 90a: Art. 90a. (1) Based on the framework study plan under art. 89, para. 2 and 3 the Minister of Education and Science has established standard curriculums for mathematical schools, for arts schools, for culture schools, for sports and for spiritual schools. (2) The typical study plan under para. 1 defines the study subjects or modules of the specialized training and the number of classes determined for their study, by classes, stages and degrees.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u260	Thank you. Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. We are voting on the proposal from the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs in his unsupported part. Vote 78 MPs: 8 against 45, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u261	Article 91 supposed by the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Reg. 91, para. 1 after the expression "coherence with" the expression "high education institutions, cultural institutions and" and after the word "plans" is added the expression "for advanced and profiled training in music, fine art and choreography and "scruitment" is added. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 91. 1 to acquire the following version: s) On the basis of the framework study plan under art. 89, para. 2 and 3 the Minister of Education and Science in coordination with higher education institutions, cultural institutions and business..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Irena Kotseva, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 91, which becomes Art. 93: Art. 93. (1) Based on the framework study plan under art. Reg. 91, para. 2 Minister of Education and Science in consultation with employers' representatives, with the Minister of Youth and Sports or with the Minister of Culture................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (2) The typical study plan under para. 1 defines the study subjects or modules of the industry and specific professional training and the number of hours of study determined for their study by classes, stages and degrees.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u262	Thank you. Statements? Mrs. Boyadjieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u263	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the Commission, part of the proposal is adopted, and this time in the text the employers sound, not the business, which was insufficiently clear. Business itself is not a legal entity. However, I would like to draw your attention to another proposal that remains uninvited will be put to the vote, for the inclusion of higher education institutions for the coordination of type education plans. Why the offer? We believe that coordination enables the actuality of the knowledge that will be taught to students. I therefore suggest that you consider when you vote on this text proposed by Prof. Svetla Bachvarova, and support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u264	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. First, we vote on the proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: 13 against 31, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Vote 81 MPs: 18, against 3, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. We're going to vote on art. 91 by importer, which in the version of the Commission becomes art. 93. They voted 83 MPs: 77, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u265	Under art. 92 there is a proposal from Borislav Veliev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 92, which becomes Art. 94: Art. 94. (1) Each school shall, on the basis of the relevant framework or type of study plan, develop a school curriculum according to the interests of the students and its opportunities. (2) The school curriculum shall contain the weekly number of hours per course. (3) The school curriculum shall be established by classes for each school year, except in the cases provided for in the state educational standard for the curriculum. (4) The school curriculum shall be adopted by the pedagogical council and validated by the Director's order and shall not be changed during the school year.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u266	Statements? I can't see. We're going to vote on art. 92 by importer which, according to the version of the Commission, becomes art. 94. 88 MPs voted: 82, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u267	Under art. 93 has a proposal from the MP Mariana Todorova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 93. 2 is amended as The individual study plan for disabled students may also include Section D (Learning classes) provided for the study of special classes. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 93. 6 is amended For the training of each subject of the individual curriculum, the team for developing students' abilities shall develop an individual curriculum which shall be validated by the school director. Proposal of the National Representative Stephanie Mihailova and the National Representative Boyka Marinska, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 93, which becomes Art. 95: Art. 95. (1) On the basis of the school curriculum, an individual study plan shall be developed for students in individual form of training and, where necessary, for: 1. students with special educational needs who are trained in daily, evening, combined, remote form or in a dual system of training; 2. students with prominent gifts who are trained in combined, remote form or in a dual system of training. (2) The individual study plan under para. 1 shall be validated by order of the Director and its execution shall be supervised monthly by the regional education management. (3) The individual study plan for the students with sensory disabilities may also include Section D (4) The individual study plan shall be developed for a school year, with the exception of the cases provided for in the state educational standard for the curriculum. (5) The individual study plan may determine the distribution of the study time in one or more educational subjects which is different from the framework, type and school curriculum. (6) The individual curriculum of students with special educational needs may contain only part of the subjects defined in the framework, type or school curriculum. (7) For the training of each subject of the individual study plan, the team for support for personal development shall develop an individual curriculum which shall be validated by the principal of the school. (8) The individual curriculum under para. 7 for students with special educational needs shall be developed on the basis of framework requirements laid down by the state educational standard for inclusive education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u268	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, we will vote on the proposal of MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: 9 against 59 abstentions 9. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 93 by importer, which in the version of the Commission becomes § 95. Vote 85 MPs: 77, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u269	Under art. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of Article 94. 94, which becomes Art. 96: Art. 96. The structure of the school and individual study plans, as well as the terms and procedures for their validation shall be determined by the state educational standard for the curriculum and by the individual study plans for the students under art. 95, para. 1 and with the state educational standard for inclusive education. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Under art. 95 The Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become art. 97. "Department IV "Organization Forms ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section IV. Under art. 96 no proposals were received. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 96, which becomes Art. 98.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u270	Statements? I can't see. We vote in one article. 94, which becomes Art. 96 in the version of the Commission, art. 95 by importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes art. 97, the name of Section IV, supported by the Commission, and art. 96 by importer, which becomes art. 98 supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 87 MPs: 82, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u271	Article 97 supposed by the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal under para. 4 and 6. The Commission generally supports the proposal under para. 8. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 97. 4 acquires the following version: (4) Inadmissible is the manifestation of any segregation in the creation of classes, groups and groups of different classes, as well as in training in the same profile or profession; para. 6... is out....................................................................................................... Proposal of the National Representative Stephanie Mihailova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 97, which becomes Art. 99: Art. 99. (1) Students enrolled for training in a given class in a daily, combined, evening, dormant, remote form or in a dual training system shall, depending on their number, be organised in classes or groups. (2) The parallels of one class shall be marked by the letters of the Bulgarian alphabet, which shall be placed after the class number. (3) Depending on the peculiarities of the study subject or module, the class may be divided into groups or a group of different classes may be organized. (4) When students of different ethnic backgrounds are enrolled in the same class, they are not allowed to be defined in classes based on ethnicity. (5) The identification in classes or groups of students with special educational needs, which are trained in an individual training plan, shall not be permitted. (6) Where students of the same class with different ethnic backgrounds for training in the same profile or in the same profession are enrolled in places determined by the state or additional admission plan, they shall not be allowed to be assigned to classes based on ethnicity. (7) Under the terms of this law, individual training on a particular subject or module may also be organised for a student in a class.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u272	Statements? I can't see. We are voting for a proposal from MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 11 against 7, abstention 73. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 97 by importer, which after the amendment of the Commission becomes art. 99. They voted 86 MPs: 84, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u273	Article 98 "A proposal from the National Representative Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 98, para. 1 the words "for the support of personal development" shall be replaced by the words "for the development of capacity" and "the development of capacity" and "the development of capacity" shall be replaced by the words "the development of capacity" and "the development of capacity" shall be replaced by the words "the The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 98, which becomes Art. 100: Art. 100. (1) The conditions and procedures for determining the number of classes in the school, the number of students in them, the division of classes into groups, and the organisation of individual training of a student in a class shall be determined by the state educational standard for the funding of institutions and in accordance with the state educational standard for the physical environment and information and library provision of kindergartens, schools and centers for support for personal development. (2) The number of classes in the private school and the number of students there shall be determined by the school, subject to the state educational standard for the physical environment and information and library provision of kindergartens, schools and centers for support for personal development.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u274	Statements? I can't see. We are voting for a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 14, against 63, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. We shall vote on the text of the importer, which shall, after the amendment of the Commission of art. Article 98 is replaced by the following: 100, supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 78, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u275	"Study V "Study and Unteachable Time ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section V. Article 99 supposed by the MP Ivan Cholakov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 99, which becomes art. 101: Art. 101. (1) School education shall be organised in school years. (2) The school year shall include curricula, curricula, curricula and curricula, as well as holidays. (3) The school year shall have a duration of 12 months and shall begin on 15 September and in sports schools on 1 September. If September 15th, September 1st, respectively, is a day off, it shall begin on the first following working day. (4) The number of school weeks per school year and their distribution by class shall be determined by the state educational standard for the curriculum. (5) The training periods and their duration, the duration of the school week, the duration of the school hours, as well as the holidays shall be determined by the state educational standard for the organisation of activities in school education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u276	Statements? I can't see. We are voting together on the name of Section V as well as on the version of art. 99, which becomes art. 101 by importer. We are voting together on the text supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u277	Article 100 supposed by the National Representative Ivan Cholakov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by MP Stanislav Stanilov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 100 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) in para. 1 shall be added at the end of the single mode; (b) para. 2 is amended as follows: The school organizes a full-time organization for students from I to VII class. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 100, which becomes art. 102: Art. 102. (1) The organization of the school day shall be semi-day and full-time. The state creates conditions for expanding opportunities for the full-time organization of the school day. (2) The school organizes a full-time organization of the school day for students from I to IV class at the request of the parents, as well as from V to VII grade at the request of the parents and according to the opportunities of the school. (3) The organization of the school day in sports schools is full-time. (4) The arrangements for organizing and conducting the half-day and full-time organisation of the school day shall be determined by the state educational standard for the organisation of activities in school education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u278	Statements? I won't. We are voting first on the proposal by the Member of the National Assembly. Stanilov, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 8 against 4, abstention 73. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 100 by importer, which becomes art. 102 in the version of the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u279	Under art. 101 has a proposal from the National Representative Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is generally supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 101, which becomes Art. 103: Art. 103. (1) The school day shall include study hours and breaks between them. (2) The duration of the school hours and the breaks between them shall be determined by the state educational standard for the organisation of activities in school education. (3) The total number of compulsory and optional classes per week shall not be less than 22 and more than 32 hours of study. (4) Exemptions under para. 3 shall be allowed for training by working (dual system of training), where the total number of compulsory and elective hours per school week can reach up to 40 hours of training, including the time for practice at the specified place of work, as well as for training in innovative schools. (5) The specific number of compulsory and optional classes per class shall be determined by the state educational standard for the curriculum.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u280	They don't want to talk. Vote art. 101 by importer, which after editing the Commission becomes art. 103. They voted 93 MPs: 91, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u281	Under art. 102 has a proposal from the National Representative Ivan Cholakov and a group of MPs, which is generally supported by the Commission under the heading. 1. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2. A proposal from MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports in principle. A proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 102, which becomes Art. 104: Art. 104. (1) For each school year, the Minister of Education and Science shall order: 1. the beginning and end of the holidays except for the summer; 2. the untrained days; 3. the beginning and end of the second period of study. (2) The order under para. 1 shall be issued no later than two weeks before the start of the school year. (3) For each school year the directors of the sports schools, in accordance with the order under para. 1, the state sports calendar and the school curriculum, determine by order the beginning and end of holidays, the time for training and rehabilitation camps and for production practice.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u282	Statements? I can't see. Vote art. 102 by importer, which, after editing of the Commission, becomes art. 104. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u283	Under art. 103 has a proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs in art. 103 is created a new para. 3 with the following text: The Day of the Bulgarian Education and Culture and of the Slavic Writing 24 May is untrained but present day for all institutions in the system of the Bulgarian Education. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 103, which becomes art. 105: Art. 105. (1) School days may be determined as uneducated or uneducated days for study by order of the Minister of Education and Science. (2) In the case of a shift of weekends during the year on the basis of art. 154, para. 2 of the Labor Code The declared weekends are unteachable for students, respectively the announced working days are study days, except when students are on vacation. (3) In the event of exceptional or unforeseen circumstances or for the day of celebration of the celebration of the municipality the mayor of the municipality after notification to the head of the regional management of education may declare up to three school days untrained in one school year for schools in the territory of the municipality. (4) The principal of the school after a decision of the pedagogical council may declare up to three school days in one school year untrained, but present, of which he shall inform the head of the regional management of education. (5) The days in which the educational process in the school is suspended on compulsory prescription by a competent authority designated by a regulatory act shall also be incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u284	Statements? I can't see. We are voting first on the proposal by the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 16, against 3, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. Article 103, which shall be inserted after the version of the Commission. 105. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u285	"Section VI - Forms of training." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VI.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u286	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of Section VI by importer, supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The text is unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u287	Under art. 104 there is a proposal from the National Representative Mariana Todorova, which the Commission supports in principle. Proposal by the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs in art. Paragraph 104 is created. 4 containing the following content: Can't be trained in a day-to-day student aged 21 years. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Marinova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 104, which becomes Art. 106: Art. 106. (1) The forms of training shall be: 1. daily; 2. evening; 3. breech; 4. individual; 5. self-contained; 6. remote; 7. combined; 8. training through work (dual system of training). (2) School training shall be carried out in daily form or in evening form, except in the cases provided for in this section. (3) The student may not be trained in two or more forms of training at the same time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u288	Statements? I won't. We are voting first on the proposal by the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 14 against 3, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the importer to art. Article 104, which, after the Commission's amendment, becomes art. 106. They voted 86 MPs: 79, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u289	A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The proposal has been withdrawn under paragraph 1. 1. The Commission does not support a proposal on this. 2: Point 2: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 the words "the personal development support team" shall be replaced by the words "the team for working with children with special educational requirements or for developing capacities." Proposal of the National Representative Boyka Marinska, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Stephanie Mihailova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 105, which becomes Art. 107: Art. 107. (1) The form of training shall be chosen by the student under the conditions of art. 12, para. 2 and subject to the requirements of this law. (2) The form of training is recommended by the personal development support team for: 1. a student who is not 16 years old whose age exceeds the age of more than three years for the class concerned; 2. a person aged 16 years and entering school for the first time; 3. a person who has suspended his training for more than three consecutive years; 4. a person who cannot successfully complete the same class for more than three years of study; 5. a student who changes the form of training in cases under art. 112, para. 5; 6. a student with special educational needs. (3) The Recommendation under para. 2 shall be prepared after an assessment of the needs for training of the person and in ensuring the protection of the interests of the other students in the class. (4) Upon recommendation under para. 2 which offers a change from daily to individual form of training of a student with special educational needs, the regional team under art. 190, para. 1 carry out an additional specialised assessment and deliver an opinion on the confirmation or rejection of the recommendation. The final choice for the form of training shall be made by the student or parent under the conditions of art. 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u290	Statements? I won't. We are voting on a proposal from the MP Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs in the part not supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: for 9, against 57, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 105, which, after the Commission's amendment, becomes art. 107 in the text supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u291	Article 106 supposed by MP Mariana Todorova. The proposal has been withdrawn under paragraph 1. 1 et c. 2. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 3. Proposal of the National Representative Mariana Todorova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 106, which becomes art. 108: Art. 108. (1) Training in daily, evening and evening form shall be organized in classes and groups. (2) The training in the individual and individual form shall be organized for a separate student. (3) The training in the combined form shall be organized in classes and in groups, and for separate study subjects for an individual student. (4) Training in remote form can be organized in groups of students of the same class or for a separate student. (5) The training through work (dual training system) shall be organised: 1. in classes and/or groups in the course of schooling and 2. for an individual student or in groups of... in practical training in a real working
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u292	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 106 by importer, which, according to the Commission, becomes art. 108 and supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u293	Article 107 "A proposal from the National Representative Mariana Todorova. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Stephanie Mihailova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 107 is replaced by the following: 109: Art. 109. (1) In evening form only persons aged 16 may be trained. (2) By way of exception, persons aged 14 may also be admitted to evening schools who, for family or social reasons, cannot be trained in daily form. (3) The training in evening form shall be carried out according to the school curriculum developed on the basis of the relevant framework study plan for evening form. (4) Training in evening form for students with special educational needs may also be carried out according to an individual curriculum developed on the basis of the relevant framework training plan for evening form. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 108, which becomes art. 110.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u294	Thank you. I don't see anyone willing to speak. We vote together, Art. Article 107, which, after the Commission's amendment, becomes art. Art. 109, Art. 108 by importer which is supported by the Commission and becomes art. 110. We are voting on two texts of anbloc, supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 82, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u295	Under art. 109 has a proposal from the MP Mariana Todorova: "1." In Chapter 6, Section VI, art. 109, para. 1, t. 2 in front of the word "sex" the word "foundative" is added and the text acquires the following content: 2. students who, for legitimate family reasons, wish to complete their training for one or more classes within other time limits; The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 1. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2. A proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs: The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 109. 2 to add a new t. 6 students in Bulgarian schools abroad. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Stephanie Mihailova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 109, which becomes Art. 111: Art. 111. (1) In individual form may be trained: 1. students who, for health reasons certified by a medical document issued by the relevant expert medical committee as defined in the Health Act, cannot be trained in daily, evening or combined form for more than 30 consecutive school days; 2. students who, for family reasons, wish to complete their training for one or more classes within other deadlines; 3. students with prominent gifts; 4. students with special educational needs under the conditions of art. 107, para. 4; 5. students in the cases under art. 107, para. 2, p. 1........................................................... (2) The individual form shall include individual curricula and ongoing assessment or mid-term or annual evaluation examinations. (3) The training shall be carried out according to an individual training plan under art. 95. (4) Individual classes shall be held at the school. In the case of para. 1, t. 1 when the student cannot attend the school, the classes are organized in domestic or hospital conditions, and in the cases under para. 1, t. 4 in the Centre for Personal Development Support. (5) At the discretion of the regional centre for supporting the process of inclusive education and of the treating physician and after consulting the parent, where a student is hospitalised, the training in individual classes shall be carried out by: 1. hospital teachers appointed to school and/or center for personal development support; the school and the center for personal development support shall be appointed by the head of regional education management in the area where the hospital is located; 2. the school and/or the center for support for personal development where the student is trained when they are in the same place where the hospital is; 3. a school and/or a support centre for personal development outside the cases under point 3. 2, designated by the head of regional education management in the area where the hospital is located.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u296	Statements? I won't. First, we vote on the proposal from the MP Mariana Todorova, which is in point. 1 is not supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: 15 against 4, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on a proposal from MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 13 against 6, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. The last vote for today's sitting........................................................................... 109 by importer, which, after editing of the Commission, becomes art. 111. Vote 79 MPs: 75, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Due to the expiry of the voting time for the sitting, I am adjourned for today's meeting. Regular plenary session tomorrow, 9:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-16.u297	We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
