ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Dear Members of the Parliament, in relation to the election of MPs for mayors of settlements, I propose on the basis of art. 50, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to include as the first item for today's plenary session, the first item for tomorrow's plenary sittings, the termination of the powers of Members of the National Assembly. This is necessary in relation to the constitution of the new municipal councils and the taking of oath by elected MPs for mayors of municipalities. Please vote. Vote 156 MPs: 150, against 4, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. First point of the day: PROJECTS FOR DECISIONS ON THE REQUESTS OF THE GRAND PROCURER OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA OF 12 OCTOBER 2015 TO GIVE DISCLOSURES FOR REFUNDING INDICATORS AGAINST A WALK KIKOLOV WITH A LEADER AND A NUCLEAR GLAV CHOUKOLOV, PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES IN FOURTHRIDES AND THE THREE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. I remind you that a provisional committee has been structured by a deliberate decision of the National Assembly, which is working on the demands of the Prosecutor General. A Commission report has been submitted together with draft decisions. I give the floor to Mr. Dimitar Glauchev, Chairman of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will introduce you to the report of the Temporary Commission on the requests of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria to give permissions to excite criminal prosecutions against Volen Nikolov Siderov and Desislav Slavov Chukolov, MPs in the Forty-third National Assembly: ♪ I can't believe on requests by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria to give permissions to arouse criminal prosecutions against the MP Volen Nikolov Siderov. No 527-00-5, of 12 October 2015, and Desislav Slavov Chukolov. No 527-00-6, of 12 October 2015 The interim committee, established by a decision of the National Assembly of 28 October 2015, held a closed session on 28 October 2015, at which it examined the requests of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. With request in. No 527-00-5 of 12 October 2015. The Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria proposes to be granted permission to provoke criminal prosecution against Volen Nikolov Siderov. B. No 18102/2015 according to the description of Sofia City Prosecutor's Office, for crimes committed by him under art. 325, para. 2 in connection with para. Art. 1, in conjunction with Art. 1 20, para. 2 in connection with para. 1 of the Penal Code and under art. 131, para. 2, Annex 4, t. 4 in connection with art. 130, para. 2 of the Penal Code. With request in. No 527-00-6 of 12 October 2015. The Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria proposes to be granted permission to provoke criminal prosecution against Desislaw Slavov Chukolov, MP in the 43rd National Assembly, in pre-trial proceedings No 513 CMK 292/2015 according to the description of the SDVR, BC. B. No 18102/2015 according to the description of Sofia City Prosecutor's Office, for crimes committed by him under art. 325, para. 2 in connection with para. Art. 1, in conjunction with Art. 1 20, para. 2 in connection with para. 1 of the Penal Code and under art. 131, para. 2, Annex 4, t. Article 3 in conjunction with Article 3 130, para. 1 of the Penal Code. According to the Prosecutor General from the evidence collected so far (shows of witnesses, forensic certificates, search and seizure protocol, etc.) it is necessary to conclude that by their behaviour the MPs Volen Nikolov Siderov and Desislav Slavov Chukolov carried out the actions described in the two requests by violating the public order, resisting authority of the government and causing bodily harm to a police officer in the performance of his office. The meeting of the Temporary Commission was attended by the MPs Volen Nikolov Siderov and Desislav Slavov Chukolov. People's representative Volen Siderov challenged the evidence attached to the requests and questioned the way the evidence was collected. People's representative Yavor Notev objected to the examination of the requests in the Temporary Commission and expressed his general opinion that before discussing them the Temporary Commission should have adopted rules for its work. National Representative Desislava Atanasova pointed out that according to art. 35, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly, the rules of employment of the Standing Committees shall also apply to the temporary committees and noted that there is no submitted draft rules to be examined. People's representative Emil Dimitrov said that the main task of the members of the Commission is to get acquainted with the materials on the requests, to listen to the persons and to make a decision. He said that he had familiarized himself with the materials, that everyone should be protected by the means provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure, and that the Temporary Commission should take a decision rather than waiting for rules. People's representative Antoni Trenchev noted that public attention is once again focused on the MPs in an extremely negative light. He stressed that the position of a popular chosen person requires not only abstention from illegal acts but also showing special respect for society and citizens. Expressed the position of the Reformation Bloc that the actions of the MPs Volen Siderov and Desislav Chukolov give sufficient reason to waive their immunity and added that on the issue of their guilt the investigating authorities should be pronounced after clarification of all the facts. This is not the work of the National Assembly, but it must provide peace to all Members of the National Assembly, as well as to the competent services, so that they can establish objective truth. After considering the Attorney General's demands, I'm in. No 527 00-5 of 12 October 2015 and No 527 1. To give permission to provoke prosecution against the MP Volen Nikolov Siderov on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, ov. No 527 00-5 of 12 October 2015, for crimes of general character under art. 325, para. 2 in connection with para. Art. 1, in conjunction with Art. 1 20, para. 2 in connection with para. 1 of the Penal Code and under art. 131, para. 2, Annex 4, t. 4 in connection with art. 130, para. 2 of the Penal Code. 2. To give permission to provoke prosecution against the People's Representative Desislav Slavov Chukolov on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 527-00-6 of 12 October 2015, for crimes of general character under art. 325, para. 2 in connection with para. Art. 1, in conjunction with Art. 1 20, para. 2 in connection with para. 1 of the Penal Code and under art. 131, para. 2, Annex 4, t. Article 3 in conjunction with Article 3 130, para. 1 of the Penal Code. The interim committee shall apply a draft decision on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 527-005 of 12 October 2015 to authorise the prosecution of Volen Nikolov Siderov, MP at the 43rd National Assembly and a draft decision on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 527-00-6 of 12 October 2015 to give permission to provoke prosecution against Desisslav Slavov Chukolov, MP at the 43rd National Assembly. I will present to your attention the draft decisions: Project! DECISION At the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, Ic. No 527-00-5 of 12 October 2015 for granting permission to arouse prosecution against Volen Nikolov Siderov, Member of the National Assembly at the 43rd National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 70, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 134, para. 1 and 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Grants permission to provoke prosecution against the MP Volen Nikolov Siderov on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, ov. No 527-00-5 of 12 October 2015, for crimes of general character under art. 325, para. 2 in connection with para. Art. 1, in conjunction with Art. 1 20, para. 2 in connection with para. 1 of the Penal Code and under art. 131, para. 2, Annex 4, t. 4 in connection with art. 130, para. 2 of the Penal Code. And the second draft decision: ? RESPONSIBILITY? At the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, Ic. No 527-00-6 of 12 October 2015 for granting permission to provoke prosecution against Desislaw Slavov Chukolov, Member of the National Assembly at the 43rd National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 70, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 134, para. 1 and 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Grants permission to provoke prosecution against the MP Desislav Slavov Chukolov on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, ov. No 527-00-6 of 12 October 2015, for crimes of general character under art. 325, para. 2 in connection with para. Art. 1, in conjunction with Art. 1 20, para. 2 in connection with para. 1 of the Penal Code and under art. 131, para. 2, Annex 4, t. Article 3 in conjunction with Article 3 130, para. 1 of the Penal Code. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u3	Thank you, Mr. Glauchev. According to argument under art. 134 para. 5 upon a decision by the National Assembly in cases where there is a request and appearance of the Members of the National Assembly may be heard by the National Assembly. Mr. Siderov and Mr. Chukolov are in the hall. If you wish to be heard, you may, within ten minutes, each one individually.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today you will vote after a short time to remove my immunity and my colleague Chukolov, so that we can be investigated on something that is to be clarified. I can say that today is a very good day for the Bulgarian drug mafia, because with the removal of my immunity [[Laughter in P.F.]] She is giving me a hard blow, with the heavy hand of the state machine, as the prosecution, the Ministry of Interior, government and parliament took part in this attack, to strike against the person or people who fingered the wound and pointed out that the center of Sofia is selling free drugs everywhere. The police aren't after him, on the contrary, protecting him. This has been shown and proved in TV in a series of my shows. [[Voices: "Eeeee!" by GERB.]] Watch every Sunday at 4:00 p.m. There's evidence there, there's a story there. This is where I hear calls...................................................................................... I know there are parents in this room who are personally affected by this tragedy because their children are drug addicts. I can name it, but I'm not gonna do it because it's a personal drama. It is a huge tragedy, however, for the nation, not a personal drama, that nearly a million are already drug addicts, most of them children and young people. If this is cause for call, you've lost all respect. Regarding the notorious immunity. This is for the narco-mafia yes, it will buy today, next week even more drinks, because then you will vote for permission to be detained under the custody of an old dream of a protest network, those bulgarophobes who dream for ten years in a row to see me handcuffed, tied up and so on. You will fulfill this dream as well. Okay. That's clear. In terms of immunity. Madam President, you are a respected lawyer. There are also many respected lawyers here in the Chamber. Do you think you're taking down my and Chukolov's immunity today? No, that immunity was dropped on October 25th on Sunday. You see this photo I am caught through the neck, through the neck, with a violent grip by Commissioner Moyrov [[(shouts: ……]] That's what it's called, extracted by force from the lobby of NATFIZ, arrested, hit, beaten, I'm not gonna take that into account, arrested, arrested. October 25th! That's when my immunity was actually removed. What is discussed for two weeks is the lack of the people's representatives, ah, oh, noise to the sky was how untouchable they are, this is disproven by the footage, which, by the way, the whole of Bulgaria saw. All Bulgaria saw that I and my colleagues here is Ilian Todorov, brought out with his hands bent, here is Ivan Dimitrov, brought out with his hands bent. Is that an immunity thing? [[Laughs]] You know very well that my immunity was violated on the 25th, and now the question is why, if I've been bullying on October 10th, because this request here, this is this big demand, which I doubt one of you has read to the end why on October 10th, when according to the Attorney General I was hooliganizing, I wasn't caught like this. [[shows photo]] With bent hands, lynched and taken to the First District? Why? Same police, same conditions, same rules. Why? Ask yourself this question, it's really a very serious question. I know there are a lot of reasonable people in this room, and I know there are people who don't want the right to be crushed just because someone hates me. This is not about sympathy and antipathy, ladies and gentlemen. This is about principles, and are there double standards, or are there no double standards? How is it that on October 10, 2015, when, according to the Attorney General, I was bullying, I was not detained? Because he can! What do you mean, 23 October 2015? ♪ Want number two, I've been bullying, and I haven't been arrested? Why? How come on October 25, 2015, when I don't bully according to the Attorney General, I'm pulled by force and put in a patrol car in the First District? That's proven, we have protocols and so on. Why? So, no immunity stopped the Ministry of Interior from operating then, if there really was a hooligan act. What's the answer? There was just no hooligan act! But all this had to be done to please a handful of sorosoids who currently rule Bulgaria. This is pathetic, because they are interfering with the work of the government, and now in parliament, we see. Mr. Glauchev, with all due respect, as the Prime Minister says, why was the meeting classified, and now we're looking at it in the open? What's the difference? Why now, in order to read the temporary committee protocol, do you have to go to the secret section? What secret was there about nuclear programs? What secret was there? Nothing! Exchanged lines about no rules. You even said it in the report. Why is it open now, and then it's closed? All this talks about a firehouse, hysterical haste to reject this issue, to show that Siderov should be punished. Now I get to the question why I didn't take off my immunity, because he was mostly asked me by the gashed journalists. I did not take it off, ladies and gentlemen, because I have already convinced myself that the Bulgarian justice system does not work objectively. I'm setting an example right now. Last time I took off my immunity, you know the case, I took it off myself, there were no committees, there were no meetings, everything was much more so, it happened without so much noise. What did you get? We go to court, I don't run from justice, but what happens in court? We come to court, on 12 October 2015 we have a hearing that begins, notice, and I ask you very much the lawyers in the Chamber, give at least so in informal conversation an answer to this right, opens a hearing without protection, without a defendant, who has explicitly stated that he wants to defend himself and must be there and the judge is making a move at the hearing? Well, how can I trust such a judicial system? I'm not running away from court and I've never been hiding. Mr. Notev is here and he knows. How can I trust such a justice system? How can I trust the police who once apply force and sometimes do not apply; once again behaves like this, another time behaves like this? And now the same police are coming out and breaking the rules....breaks all rules for rallies, meetings, occupying intersections and so on. In 2013, however, this police stood like this and watched as they threw stones at those, the same Protestants who now want my head, who yelled at me: "Volley, we will kill you!" Why do I have to go out?............ and they forced me out to be lynched. Someone tells me that I have to be subjected to a lynch and that it should be shown for satisfaction I don't know of any, maybe here's an interview [[shows newspaper]] To a young actress who said, "The hit in the face of Volen for everyone was a joy like the 1994 World Cup." Ladies and gentlemen of the House, can this be morally understandable, acceptable? Tell me! A blow to me to be a joy to all?! Or this guild that represents the actress in question? If that's true, then there are no principles in our society anymore. So, the public lynch is already a joy to the crowd. Is that what we came to in the 21st century? I don't know, you answer it. Regarding immunity, I also wanted to explain to the Commission the whole request, which is how fat it is, and I wanted to explain its wickedness. This request from Mr. Attorney General, my respects, as the Prime Minister says, but it is based on false expertise, ladies and gentlemen. Here is the expertise of a person named Stanislav Ivanov Hristov, a forensic expert who has been on leave for 4 months and gives expertise to a police officer who has been hit by one of us. Can that be? We checked, made sure this guy's been on leave for four months. Not to mention that he was tried for dealing with human organs and has no right to even be an expert. He has no right, but he is the one who signed this forensics report. Here, the forensic certificate No 326 by Stanislav Ivanov Hristov, the man wrote it, on the same night, October 10th, given that he has been on leave for 4 months. This is what I wanted to explain to the honourable Commission, but it crossed me with the words: "We are not a court of law, we are not a consequence. Yeah, you're not a court, you're not an investigation, but this whole deck that's provided should still be read and judged whether it's objective. Are the Attorney General and the prosecutors who work for him really infallible and unable to make a mistake? They can, obviously they can. Here, I've shown you one mistake. There are others. There are several handwritten testimony from witnesses with the same handwriting. It's just three people writing in the same handwriting. But let's say that this is a small matter for you and you say, "Go there, to the investigation, to the court and get well! " - Yes, but why write requests then? Why didn't the Attorney General just make a phone call and say, Mrs. Tsacheva, Mr. Glauchev! Give immunity to this one and this one!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u5	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u6	Isn't that why the National Assembly has to decide whether this request is real or if something else is behind it? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u7	You will also have the opportunity to take an attitude in the debate. Mr. Chukolov does not wish to be heard as is the Rules of Procedure. I'm opening the debate. Are there any MPs who wish to take part in the debate on the draft decision, as presented by the President of the Commission? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will not take attitude and enter into the specifics of our proposed draft decision, and I have supported it in the Temporary Commission, and I will support it today. But I would like to share with the National Assembly a few words about the way the Commission has taken this decision. Firstly, I am amazed at the speed at which the Commission was convened. Literally a few hours after it was constructed in the National Assembly. If only you were so fast, colleagues from the ruling coalition, and predicting a number of other problems that have aged for years. For example, changes in the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests, changes that are extremely important for the work of the portfolio Commission, but have been aged for years and have not reached the plenary. A majority, however, seems to be more important to cure the consequences of the system's disabilities than their root causes. I argue that the approach in the Commission's work was formalistic. Its members did not have the necessary time until the beginning of the first meeting to get acquainted with the huge amount of content of the materials provided by the Prosecutor's Office. In fact, I got the impression of a rather emotional rather than pragmatic vote. I am in a hurry to stress that this does not apply to yesterday's meeting of the Temporary Committee. This is at the second request of the Prosecutor's Office, for which a far more meaningful discussion was received as a result of normal time periods of introduction to the documents. Dear colleagues, art. 35 of our Rules of Procedure states that: I say again: for two hours of preparation and for less than an hour of a Commission meeting, excuse me, but it is very difficult for us to examine any matter, and even less of such importance. I am under the impression that someone had already studied it and we were expected to raise our hands, driven by emotional motives, by public expectations and so on. I was lucky that, as a Member of the Parliamentary Ethics Committee, I was also more aware of this case, so I was able to make my informed decision. I have a claim to the way the sitting itself took place. It was not admitted by MPs who are not part of the Commission, which I am not convinced is in line with our Rules. The Commission also did not adopt rules of employment. It did not become clear which rules we were working on, although there was a proposal to discuss rules, but it was not allowed to vote at all. Information about a breakdown in the system of admission to the National Assembly, which did not allow certain journalists to enter and reflect the work of the Commission. The meeting itself began nearly an hour late because of the chairman's commitment to the work of another committee, something which could not have been known in advance, but instead created tension among the crowd of people gathered and discomfort among the members of the Commission. Honourable Members, all this has led to a feeling of some kind, I would say, a preliminary scenario, of formality in the work of the Commission and of free or unintentional complicity in a pre-solved case. Statements by the Members of the Commission of the kind of: "There is nothing to go into detail. " The Court will decide. In conclusion, I can't help but mention that I have a sense of strange overlay of events. The reason for today's discussion and its subsequent development, which led to a second request from the prosecution, coincided with the counting of ballots on election night and the accompanying violations; the direct broadcasts that overshadowed the most watched television rialita; the immediate launch of the Commission; the other storyline that is developing here with the parliamentary immunitys; the lightning committees, which were well likened by Mr. Siderov to folk tribunals, and so on, and so on, come once again to give us a hint of the guiding nature of our entire presented performance. Thank you. [[Single applause by BSP LB and "Attack."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u9	- What's the line? Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u10	Mrs. Chairman! Dear colleague Zafirov, I am taking special advantage of the procedure to give you a reply, as I hope you will say something more meaningful in the back. Rule 35 of the Rules of Procedure states: The rules on the work of the Standing Committees shall also apply to the temporary committees. If from October 13th, when the Prosecutor General's request was submitted, until October 29th, when the Commission meets, you have not had the time to get acquainted with the materials, you will never have enough. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u11	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Zafirov. [[Noise and lines from the hall.]] Colleagues, I'm asking you to listen to each other and not be called out of the room. Mr. Bojinov, I'm paying attention to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u12	Mr. Glauchev, I always say meaningful things, the question is who hears me. [[Noise and shouts: "Eeeee!" by GERB.]] By which rules, which committees? I can say that all committees work under different rules. For example, in our Anti-Corruption Commission we have special rules for work and here the President of the Commission can confirm it. Can you explain to me by the rule on which committee we worked after quoting this article? Which committee did we work on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u13	Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to take part in the deliberations? [[Noise and lines.]] Are there any eligible MPs? Mr. Notev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Members of Parliament, I would like to limit the subject of today's debate and the decision that we will take, recalling that we will take a decision to support a proposal from the Commission which partially fulfils the task set out in a decision in plenary. We are talking about a proposal to remove the immunity of two MPs, which is a response to only one of the Attorney General's demands. In addition, on the same occasion, the Commission's further work was also the next meeting to discuss another request, of course, with the supplement to allow the detention of the two MPs. The deadline for the decision-making and decision-making of the Commission was one week and this was reduced as an explanation of the hasty work. I fully share this assessment about the Commission's hasty, hasty work. It seems to me as a precedent in Parliament's work to listen to a committee report in part. This hearing is due to the lack of vision, vision, rules on the work of the Commission and it is directly related to the fact that for the first time in the practice of the National Assembly, the President of such a committee is a person who is not a lawyer. On numerous occasions, Mr. Glauchev, to say again, with all due respect to his personality and diligence to implement the plenary decision, stressed that he was not sufficiently prepared, and there were statements from Commissioners who called on me not to bring them into the Lyuridical swamp, note the "Juridical swamp"! We are people who make laws, and we have to uphold them, explain them, interpret them, but we are the creators of this. In fact, the lack of rules that the colleague before me spoke about proved crucial to the quality of the work and quality of the solutions offered to you. There is no way to rule on these decisions, since it remains unclear how deep we can penetrate and discuss the materials proposed by the prosecutor. They were indeed in more than 100 pages, but the President of the Commission had taken care in advance to state his wish, intention and conviction to the agency, what the Commission's decision would be, would not be a lawyer or a person holding and respecting the decision of the collective body entrusted to him to lead, in fact he refused to consider the materials under the pretext that we are not a convention or an investigative body. What's the point of accompanying the Attorney General's request with these materials? Isn't it enough to get on a piece of paper his request, check it for spelling errors and possibly misinterpret texts that he refers to and raise his hand without getting into the content and without defining an opinion and attitude?! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] In fact, all these disagreements that accompanied the Commission's work, half reported to you today, in order to make the half-way decision, whatever it is, it will not be in full compliance with the information and the results of the Commission's work, have the effect that the Commission is working incompetently, incompletely and ultimately not responding to the task and purpose for which it was formed. I will be sure to vote against the proposed decisions and on the grounds that they do not meet the decision and the work assigned by the plenary and do not carry out this work. They do not give an answer to the question whether such a Commission makes sense when a request has been made by the Prosecutor General or whether it can be submitted to the Chamber without discussion and without any improvised closed meetings and the Members of the National Assembly to take a decision according to their belonging to one or another parliamentary group. The question remains: what is this, the authority of the Member of the National Assembly, because a Member of the Commission put the conflict to consideration, according to him, that according to art. 6 of the Constitution all citizens were equal and there were none that were more equal and had rights beyond those of all other citizens. In this sense, the texts that comment on immunity have been deleted, such as an institute introduced in the Constitution of a mass of democratic states, including ours! What's this about? For total ambiguity and misunderstanding! That is why I call on you to reject this half decision; not to work in a piece, as we have had to work as Commissioners; to entrust the Commission to do its work with a joint report; to come before you with a generally justified decision to be taken in implementing rules for the work of this Commission. Those rules shall include the possibility of participation of persons whose immunity is sought and their hearing. I remind the members of the Commission because there are no other witnesses because of the closed nature of the meetings that Mr. Chukolov and Mr. Siderov were at the first meeting and their word was taken unceremoniously by the President because they tried to say something that he was not interested in and was outside the subject. But, I repeat, according to him, outside the subject of the Commission's work. At the next meeting, I asked those two MPs to be heard explicitly, because making a decision without hearing a defendant, accused without a final word of death even [[Elevator bell dings]] Before the hanging is unthinkable. The Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court We've been listening to each other for the last few days. We're discussing a serious matter. We are discussing a matter that stands for consideration of the National Assembly and a question on which there is a proposal to amend the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I do not know what else, in a quick order. Again, I call you for serious consideration and evaluation of what is being offered to your attention. Don't do what no one has ever done before. Half a report should not be put to the vote and cannot be accepted. Let the Commission do its job. Instruct her President to do her job or, if she is unable to do so, to resign so that the management and management of this Commission will be entrusted by all the rules and laws laid down in the long-standing practice of the Bulgarian Parliament. Let us not create a precedent that will be juicy with finger and which will be commented in a paradoxical order, a hasty decision of the Bulgarian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u15	- What's the line? I won't. Personal explanation of Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u16	Mr. Notev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I feel a little uncomfortable reading art. 23, para. 1 of Mr. Notev, obviously one of the other Commissioners, who reads the following: The Standing Committees can, I stress, adopt their own internal rules in accordance with these Rules, which are published on the website of the committee concerned, on the website of the National Assembly. It is unnecessary for lawyers to explain what the word "may" means, and when they do not adopt such rules, it is obvious that they are working under the rules of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. You overestimate, Mr. Notev, my options, you underestimate the other MPs, members of the Commission from what I have heard. Why were the meetings closed? Many Members of the National Assembly, Commissioners, have expressed concern that materials are being discussed, which is an investigative secret, and you should know best what to do then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u17	Statements from other MPs? Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, my speech will be absolutely pure and legal. [[GERB lines.]] Please, can I have your attention, please? In the previous speech I showed you the page, I think 51 ta, of this request that everyone can see, in which the signed Professor. Stanislav Ivanov Hristov, a specialist in forensic medicine, made a judicial conclusion, being on leave. And I'm continuing a second series and I'm telling you that the same person according to the Supreme Judicial Council, I'm going to read the document. No 11-06-777 dated 15.10.2012: "To the administrative heads of the court-appointed military district administrative specialised criminal court and district courts. Ladies and gentlemen, we are sending a letter from the President of the Sofia District Court, together with a decision on NAHD No 171 of 2012 to the Sofia District Court, under which the expert Stanislav Ivanov Hristov was convicted of a crime of general nature and does not meet the requirements of art. 13 of the Ordinance on the registration, qualification and remuneration of property persons. Secretary-General Slavka Kamenova. With this document, the Supreme Judicial Council confirms that this expert who made the judicial expertise in the Prosecutor General's request has no right to be an expert. Except he's on vacation. That's what's become a trifle now. So, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in fact, this request that the Attorney General has provided to our attention is a false document. And the person who made it should be in charge of art. 209-210 in the Criminal Code for drafting a false document. If you approve, that is, you vote on the basis of this, you will become accomplices, making a decision on a false document. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u19	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I don't see anyone who wants to. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a draft decision on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, with an introduction. No 527-00-5 of 12 October 2015 for granting permission to provoke criminal prosecution against Volen Nikolov Siderov. Colleagues, you're familiar with the draft decision. Mr. Glauchev introduced him. We are voting on the draft decision on the request of the Attorney General concerning Mr. Volen Nikolov Siderov. We vote. Vote 156 MPs: 144 against 11, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Draft decision on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria No 527-00-6 of 12 October 2015 to give permission to provoke prosecution against Desisslav Slavov Chukolov, MP in the Forty-third National Assembly. You are familiar with the project and its content by Mr. Glauchev. Please vote. Vote 159 MPs: 148 against 11, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members of the National Assembly by letter with letter. No 554-00-669 of 4 November 2015, the People's Representative from 18 election district Razgrad, Valentin Stefanov Vassilev, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria has stated that he resigned as a Member of the National Assembly elected with the mandate of the Forty-third National Assembly and wishes to be terminated as a Member of the National Assembly. I offer to your attention a service project for ? RESPONSIBILITY? terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Aborts the authority of Valentin Stefanov Vassilev as a MP from the 18th election district of Razgrad. Colleague Vassilev has been elected mayor of Razgrad. Are there any willing to take part in the draft decision? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the draft decision to terminate the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly. Vote 149 MPs: 146, against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Next item: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO CHANGE THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. An opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs has been received. We're listening, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u20	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention... [[Valentin Vassilev leaves the hall, sent with applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u21	Mr. Kirilov, I'm sorry, but the applause is well deserved. Move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u22	I present to your attention. "COMMODITY" on the Draft Decision amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, No 554-02-80, submitted by Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev, Borislav Lyubenov Velev, Miho Dimitrov Mihov and Valeri Simeonov Simeonov on 27 October 2015. At its meeting held on 28 October 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Decision amending the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, No 554-02-80, submitted by Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev, Borislav Lyubenov Velikov, Miho Dimitrov Mihov and Valeri Simeonov Simeonov on 27 October 2015. On behalf of the importers, the draft decision was presented by the MP Christian Mitev. It proposes a change of the period within which the National Assembly decides on a request for acquittal, from 14 to 5 days. According to the importers of the Bill, the unreasonable length of time hinders Parliament's adequate and timely response. People's representatives Chetin Kazak, Svilen Ivanov, Christian Mitev, Danail Kirilov, Chavdar Georgiev, Yavor Haytov, Emil Dimitrov, Yavor Notev took part in the discussion. In the course of the discussion, Mr Kazak pointed out that there are no serious grounds and arguments for a reduction of the deadline. He stressed that the Institute of Immunity is very old and exists in many countries, as well as in the European Parliament and reminded that the regulations were designed to regulate public relations and not intututu personae. According to him, there should be a serious period within which the people's representative to consider and decide whether to give up his immunity, to issue a temporary commission, as well as to have time in detail to get acquainted with all the materials and to examine all the documents and data. Sharing Mr. Kazak's arguments, Mr. Georgiev noted that the Rules should regulate a reasonable period of time, as the National Assembly is not a single body that can be called up and make a decision in a short time. In this regard, it proposed alternative two editorial amendments to the draft decision, namely: the words..14 days.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The proposal was not supported by the MPs. Mr. Haytov also expressed his opinion that the deadline is too short and it would be impossible to obtain a complete picture of all data in a complex criminal act in 5 days. National Representative Hristian Mitev pointed out that there are cases in which investigative proceedings must be carried out and the long term may hinder the activities of the investigation bodies. He also reminded that it concerns the moment from which the National Assembly can rule by stressing that there is no imperative norm regarding the deadline for ruling. Mr. Dimitrov added that it should come out of the hypothesis that the National Assembly will always allow the arousal of prosecution. Mr. Kirilov agreed that a permanent framework should be found to have a preventive effect against ongoing acts and prevent them from being repeated. He noted that the National Assembly is not a judicial body and should only be acquainted with the request of the Prosecutor General, which does not include all the evidence but their interpretation in order to assess whether or not prosecution should be allowed. Mr. Kirilov made an amendment to art. 134, para. 5 of the MCC, namely the words "not earlier than 14 days after the request was made" to be dropped. The proposal was not supported by the MPs. Mr. Notev pointed out that the Institute of Immunity has a harmonious framework regarding the rules of the Rules and does not cause problems. According to him, the proposed deadline is too short for the MPs to get acquainted with the prosecutor's request, which is usually quite long. He reminded that in the case of a serious crime found, a permit for detention is not required. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 7 votes for the National Assembly, 2 votes against the National Assembly, and 3 votes abstentions, supported the Draft Decision for amendment of the Rules of Organization and Activities of the National Assembly, No 554-02-80, submitted by Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev, Borislav Lyubenov Velev, Miho Dimitrov Mihov and Valeri Simeonov Simeonov on 27.10.2015. Following the vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs proposed to the National Assembly the following Draft Decision: ? RESPONSIBILITY? amending the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly (Obn. DV. No. 97 from 2014, dop. DV. p. 13 of 2015) The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and § 1, para. 1 of the Additional Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 134, para. 5 words "14 days' shall be replaced by "5 days'. FINAL DISCLOSURE § 2. The decision shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u23	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. We're moving on to speeches. Please, fellow Members, would anyone like to take the floor? Mr. Ermenkov, welcome to the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u24	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members. I take this as a first, I would like to say that I really realise the need for this to be shortened the time limit for the decision of the National Assembly to withdraw the possible immunity of the guilty MPs, but I am addressing all those who are lawyers who have done exercises at the time and have decided cases during their education and ask them if we leave only 5 days, what happens if I give you a case: on Friday evening the People's Representative committed an infringement, because of which the prosecutor requested the withdrawal of his immunity on Friday evening. Then what's going on? It turns out that we have 5 days, which are Saturday, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday and the first day on which the National Assembly can take some consideration of the matter is the last day of the 5-day term. Therefore, I propose that in § 1 between the words In this way, we will be able to fully cover what could happen as a case. We will not have the need for extraordinary calls of the National Assembly for the election of a committee, an extraordinary meeting of the Commission and it will be on days that are almost impossible to make. That's why I'm calling for reason. This will not decide or extend the deadline very much, but it will give us the opportunity in normal working mode to do our job, which is why, once again, I say, I am making an editorial proposal in § 1 between the words Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u25	Thank you. I understand, Mr. Ermenkov. Replies to that statement? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I would like to clarify this. It's not a term to pronounce, it's a term that forbids pronouncing. This is a so-called "cooling period', which says: during this period the authority will not take this decision. For this reason, there is no problem in the hypothesis that you have pointed out, the National Assembly to rule not on the fifth, but on the fifteenth, not on the fifteenth, but on the twenty-fiveth, the government decides. But with this term it's said: but it can't be rushed. Why this period has occurred, historically you can make a reference. There have been obvious cases in which there has been a particular demand that the possibility of the National Assembly being able to rule on the prosecutor's request should be prevented. You've also mixed the act and the prosecutor's request. I don't think Friday night, doing the deed, the Attorney General can make the request that night, because at least he needs technical training and a minimum collection of evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u27	Thank you. Another line? Do you want a hole? You're giving up. Any further comments? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The right is colleague Kirilov, who said that this is a ban period, but at the same time this deadline is part of the content of the immunity of the MP. Within this time limit, this immunity really works. On the other hand, it is a little, how can I say, naive to think that this term does not matter if we are guided by Mr. Kirilov's logic. However, this deadline provides a time frame within which the National Assembly and the Members of the National Assembly must be informed of the sufficient data provided if they so wish, of course, but it is still a time frame within which such an opportunity is provided for them to become aware of the sufficient data provided to the Prosecutor General's request. We should therefore seek a record in the Rules of the National Assembly on which we are working to give a reasonable view. That is to say, we are looking for a reasonable period of time for this immunity to be guaranteed and, secondly, for this reasonable period of time for the Members of the National Assembly to become acquainted with the provided materials attached to the Prosecutor General's request. That is why I am also making an editorial proposal: instead of five days, as in the proposed Project for a solution, to be recorded: "Seven days." I think that's a reasonable period of time. At the same time, he is not hasty and hasty, as proposed by fellow Members, and I ask you to support such a reasonable period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u29	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u30	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The worst thing for a parliament is to put aside the responsible, sensible approach to the treatment of legislative matter and to go under the influence of emotions, of momentary public attitudes and under their influence to proceed to reforming of permanently established legal institutes and principles enshrined in both the Bulgarian Constitution and in our legislation. It is no secret that the legislative initiative we are discussing at the moment is due to the events which have become the subject of the previous point, namely the actions of colleagues Volen Siderov and Desislav Chukolov. But I address all Members of the National Assembly with the following request. These cases are precedents in our history and in the history of cases on which the National Assembly has ruled at all on the removal of immunity of MPs. These cases are comparatively of such a nature, which does not constitute any particular legal complexity. Charges of hooliganism, charges of coercion, first of all, do not constitute legal and factual complexity, but on the other hand, they arouse a huge public reaction that we have witnessed in this case. But in principle you know very well that almost all previous cases related to the request of immunity of MPs are related to far, far more complex compositions of the Penal Code, which require in-depth preparation by the prosecution before requesting the removal of immunity, and naturally, if the people's representative does not give up his immunity, a much deeper study by the relevant Temporary Committee, which is set up on this occasion. That is why this banning period was invented, as said by colleague Kirilov, a cooling term to protect the institution of the National Assembly from the emotions of the moment, of the day, of the evening, of the night, and to have the opportunity to approach a sober, cool mind, with sufficient time to prepare for the study of the relevant request. That's why I appeal to you. Let's put aside specific cases. They're precedents. I do not know if we will soon have similar cases, and so let us see, in principle, what is the basis, what is the genesis of the immunity institute, what is the reason for it to be created in the legal doctrine and in the legal traditions of European countries. It also exists in the European Parliament and there the procedures are quite serious and far from fast, as we are currently being proposed to do them in Bulgaria. I do not see what the difference is from the National Assembly or the prosecution, if we shorten one term by a few days? What will he gain from the point of view of revealing objective truth from the point of view of proving a crime? On the contrary, the reduction of this deadline creates grounds for concern that the National Assembly will be subjected precisely to such pressure from public opinion, media and so on in cases where it will eventually turn out that things may not have been like this. You know, there have been cases where accusations remain unproven, and the last thing the National Assembly needs is to be rushed into such decisions. Therefore, we of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will abstain from supporting this proposal for a change in the Rules, because it seems unjustified and unnecessary in view of the legal tradition, the characteristics of the legal institute called the "Parliamentary immunity" and the real needs for its preservation, its compliance as a protection against attempts at undue influence and pressure on the work of the parliamentarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u31	Thank you. - What's the line? Here's your first line, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, I will make a reply to Mr. Kazak why I do not agree with his proposal. First, he introduces new terms, but in one thing he's right that we do it for a certain person on a particular occasion. But the whole right, because these are habits and customs, is catching up with social needs. There is no legislative framework to settle a matter when it becomes very ill, visible, and cannot be solved otherwise. A new legislative framework is then adopted. However, I do not agree with the definition of a cooling period. Then we must also introduce the definition of a sobering period. Some may also decide a period of detoxification, or perhaps a period of negotiation, or a period of protection. Let's stop at five days, the National Assembly to accept this proposal and move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u33	Thank you. Second line? I can't see. It's a hole, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I didn't invent it. It wasn't me who suggested it. It was my colleague Daniel Kirilov. I would rather dwell on the term "forbidden term" as is the actual purpose of this term. This is a period within which the National Assembly is forbidden to rule in order to allow the National Assembly to get acquainted with the request, with the argumentation. If the people's representative does not give up his immunity on his own, establish a temporary committee that also has time to work, get acquainted, examine the case and give a reasoned opinion to the plenary. That's why this deadline was created. Once again, I would not like to slide along the plane of the kind of bidding who gives more, in this case who gives less five days, five working days, seven days, eight days. We're not getting anywhere. Therefore, let the time limit be as recorded. He's never caused any trouble before. The worst thing I repeat, Mr. Dimitrov, is the legislation to slide along this or that drastic precedent, which, however, remains isolated. The right is created to regulate lasting social relations, not to deal with any drastic precedent that can arise in people's lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u35	Thank you. Any other speeches? I can't see. I am closing the debate on the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure. We're going into voting mode. I will first put two editorial amendments or proposals to the vote. The first proposal is from Mr. Tasco Ermenkov, who proposes that five days will be replaced by five working days. Please vote on Mr. Ermenkov's editorial amendment. They voted 118 MPs: 23, against 43, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the second editorial amendment proposed by the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev and the expression "five days" to be replaced by "seven days." Please vote on this editorial amendment. They voted 123 MPs: 22, against 47, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a decision amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in its version read by Mr. Danail Kirilov at the beginning of the issue. Please vote. They voted 129 MPs: for 86, against 26, abstention 17. The motion to amend the Rules of Procedure has been adopted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: A NEW DISCLOSURE OF THE LAW FOR MILK DISCLOSURE, ACHIEVED BY THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 1 OCTOBER 2015 AND RETURNED FOR NEW DISCLOSURE BY SAYN No 197 OF 14 OCTOBER 2015 OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THREAT. 101 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. This is the so-called'veto' imposed by the President of this Bill. It is allocated to a new review by the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. We have received a report from this Commission. Here you are, Mr. Nunev, to present the report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u36	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on Decree No 197 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria and its reasons, received on 15 October 2015 for a new discussion of provisions of the Military Intelligence Act adopted by the National Assembly on 1 October 2015. At its meeting held on 20 October 2015, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications discussed the Declaration of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria on Return for a new discussion of provisions of the Military Intelligence Act and its motives. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Petya Tyankova, Secretary for Legal Affairs of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria; Mr. Atanas Samandov, Secretary for Defence and Security of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria; Mr. Georgi Krastev, Advisor to the Political Office of the Council of Ministers and Mr. Atanas Zaprianov, Advisor to the Ministry of Defence. The President of the Commission Mr. Dimitar Lazarov reported the President's decree and the reasons for it. On the basis of art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria the President returns to the National Assembly for a new discussion Art. 24, para. 3 and the related Order of Art. 24, para. 5, t. Art. 3 and Art. 26, t. 3 of the Military Intelligence Act. With the accepted Order of Art. 24, para. 3 of the Military Intelligence Act provides that the director of the service will be only a soldier of real military service with a higher military rank. According to the reasons of the decree, the removal of the existing possibility of that position being held by a civilian with professional experience in the field of national security or the Armed Forces is not in line with the functions and tasks assigned to the Office. Those who have a purely military character require specific military expertise are only one part. Military information is also carrying out tasks in the area of asymmetric risks and threats of terrorism, illegal trafficking in human beings, weapons and drugs, weapons of mass destruction and their spread. The reasons show that the circle of activity of the Office and the powers of the Director provided for in the Law do not in any way impose a restriction on the possibility of the head of the Director to be only a military officer of a real military rank, concluding additional restrictions beyond the appropriateness. It is also stated that since civilians can be deputy directors and will be able to carry out the functions and powers of the Head in his absence, there is no reason for the Director to be unable to be a person other than a serviceman. In his motives, the President urged the MPs to re-examine and the requirement for the necessary professional experience for the Director of the Service "Military information" and his alternates taking into account the functions of the Office and removing unjustified restrictions. Ms. Petya Tyankova, Mr. Atanas Samandov and Mr. Zapreyanov took part in the discussion. They expressed their support for the return of the provisions of the Law. According to them, the reasons for the President's decree reflect the main problem, namely that the Law unduly restricts the range of civilians who have the necessary qualifications and professional experience in the field of national security to take up the position of Director of the Office of Military Information. During the discussion of the decree and the reasons for it took part the MPs Metodi Andreyev, Miho Mihov, Kamen Kostadinov and Atanas Atanasov. The MPs Metodi Andreev and Atanas Atanasov united around the opinion that the reasons for the return for a new discussion in the National Assembly of the provisions of the Military Intelligence Act are justified and justified, and are shared by them. People's representatives Miho Mihov and Kamen Kostadinov have not expressed their support, who have criticised and disagreed with the edicts of the decree. The same said on behalf of their parliamentary groups that they do not support the return of the provisions of the Military Intelligence Act and will vote on them again. Following the discussion, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence funds and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications with 6 votes, 3 votes against the Security Services and 3 votes abstentions proposed that the National Assembly should not re-accept the Military Intelligence Act adopted by the National Assembly on 1 October 2015 and hold a new discussion on its contested provisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u37	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Mr. Lazarov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, please put to the vote for admission to the Chamber of Mrs. Petya Tiankova and General Atanas Samandov of the President's Administration.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u39	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal for admission in the Chamber of the listed persons, representatives of the Presidency: Mr. Samandov and Mrs. Tiankova. They voted 104 MPs: 94, against 3, abstention 7. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. On behalf of the importer? You don't want to. Some of the arguments and reasons were mentioned in the report. We're going into discussion mode. Mr. Naydenov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u40	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In my opinion, we are involved in a rather inattentive and somewhat pointless discussion that borders on waste of valuable time. Naturally, I do not dispute the president's constitutional right to a procrastinating veto or his right of judgment on which laws to impose this veto, but it seems to me that in this case the President was too addicted and personally tempted. The arguments have given way to emotions, and from that the motives presented by the Decree we are looking at have not won. On the contrary, these reasonings once again suggest that the texts in the original version of the Bill and respectively the designs relating to these texts are related to a specific person. This amendment, for a reason, with regard to the criteria for taking up the position, was personalised by the name of the current Head of Service Mr. Bakalov. Take a look at this paradox, not by the name of importers of a particular bill, such as the practice, not by the name of the importers of the correction, for example,............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would actually like to stress that the motives add absolutely nothing new to the discussions that have already sounded both in the specialized committees and in the plenary. They don't enrich arguments, they don't offer us a solution we haven't noticed. In fact, they are telling us once again that the appointment of the Director of the Service was the subject of a deal within the ruling coalition. They tell us once again that the senior partner within this coalition has been subjected to some sort of racketeering. Note, in this case, that the hostage of everything that is happening is the Military Information Service. In practice, the Military Intelligence of Bulgaria with its history, traditions, a role in the security of the country. Is it worth the hostage of this appointment to be the Office even on the other end of the scale to stand the current head of the Office Mr. Yordan Bakalov, to stand the minister of defence, to stand the president who is possessed by the ambition to finally see those parts of the archive of the Service, which, according to them, are not declassified? In fact, I am saying this because I have not heard any other arguments that are directly related to the person who holds the position of Director of the Military Information Service. No professional arguments with regard to preparation, quality, strategy for the development of this service or views related to the development and functioning of the Office of Military Information. Let's put aside these reasonings for a second and take a look at one another, which, in my opinion, was absent until now in the discussions. Let's look at the structure of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. I say this because the Military Information Service is part of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and to ask the question: Are there any other constituent formations of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to which to raise the question whether to engage by servicemen or by civil servants? The answer is: "No! " And there is none, because in the absence of such raising of this topic you can see the importance, responsibilities, functions that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria have and the constituent formations of the Armed Forces in terms of both military security and overall national security. Take a look at the Armed Forces, for example, entering the Military Medical Academy, entering the Stationary Information Service, entering the Military Geographic Service, entering the Military Academy, entering the military schools, but with regard to them, issues concerning whether or not to be occupied by civilians or soldiers are not raised. I am in a hurry to add immediately: the motives which the President has set out sound to some extent unserious, even insulting to the personnel of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. I'd like to add the following. To ask the question: How many are the heads of similar services in the NATO member states, which are civil servants, or what is the ratio between personnel and civil servants? Well, more than 90% are military personnel in active military service with the title of a brigadier general and upward. The other two or three, apart from the Bulgarian Military Information Service, are occupied by civilian personnel with the corresponding military training or personnel of those services who head up who have terminated their active military service. In fact, a situation that is similar to the only exception in the history of the Military Information Service when this service was headed by a civilian employee. A civilian, but a personnel officer of military intelligence, with the rank of a senior officer who has suspended his active service at the Office of Military Information. There's no other case! Let us now imagine in this Chamber how is the current Head of Service of Military Information fit? How do we imagine his involvement, for example, in discussing the relevant terminology, assessments, specific concepts of, say, coalition military operations somewhere in the Middle East or Middle East? How do you imagine such a report, from, say, the head of the Bulgarian Military Information Service or how you imagine this Head of Service giving instructions for development, respectively for participation or his report, should we say, regarding Bulgaria's readiness plan for action against a likely opponent? How exactly do we imagine it? Or should we say how we imagine this chief of staff's report to the chief of defense? How do you see him? How do you see him reporting risks, dangers related to the military security of the Republic of Bulgaria or thus all that concerns the military intelligence unit in preparation of an operation of the Bulgarian Army? Well, we can't imagine it. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to make it seem so unserious, my call is to support the Law and thus reject the president's veto. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u41	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. - What's the line? == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, of course, reserve my right to speak afterwards, but I take two points from Mr. Naydenov's statement. Mr. Naydenov, I am under the impression that today in the Chamber we are discussing who to appoint as Director of the Military Information Service. All of us, when we voted on the Law in this House, agreed that this power would belong to the Prime Minister and the President by virtue of binding competence, as it is for all other services. That is, the personal choice is of other authorities in the state and this is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. 105, para. 2 of the Constitution. I want to tell you that the personalization of this problem in the Law came precisely from your side. You customize this issue and try to turn it into purely political, including sticking wedges in the ruling coalition who's racketeering who. Ask any of the colleagues from GERB who should be appointed head of this service? But it's not up to them either. Two words for the famous archives. The Law on the Transmission of Archives is not implemented, Mr. Naydenov. There's an old Roman rule that says, "Dura Lex, Sed Lex, Bad Law, but Law." I do not say that this Law is bad or that any other law before it is bad, but when there is a rule adopted, it must be observed by those entrusted with the execution of the law. The law on the transfer of the archives is permanently not respected by the representatives of the Office of Military Information and therefore there is no responsibility for all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u43	Thank you. Second line? There aren't any. Would you like a douche? Here you go, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u44	Dear Mr. Atanasov, yes, the debate has been brought down to the personal appointment, because these are the only arguments that appear in the President's motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u45	It's not up to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u46	There are no other motives, there are no other arguments, and I happen to say that this is to some extent a rather pointless discussion. I agree, if that is what you mean with regard to the discussion, but we are forced to discuss this, because we need to discuss the delaying veto and vote accordingly anyway. Once again, to confirm our attitude towards the Law and thus reject the president's veto. We cannot fail to discuss, including, of course, the criteria, if the appointment is respectively the right of the Minister of Defence, respectively the Council of Ministers and the President of the country. We cannot fail to discuss this because, with this Law, we set the criteria to which the relevant proposal must be met. It cannot be an offer that falls from the sky. It complies with some requirements and precisely because you and to some extent the majority under your pressure have changed these criteria and those requirements that have always been applied to the Head of the Service of Military Information and that is why we are forced to return to these criteria. I asked for a reason is there another case in the history of military intelligence, respectively of the Military Information Service, for a person appointed as head of the service who does not belong to this service? There is no such case in all of history! Come back before 9 September and 9 September and 10 November. There's no such case! The only case was in changing the requirements of Minister Anyu Angelov because of his conflict with President Parvanov regarding the proposals that were then made and which were diverted, connected with the personnel. Despite these changes, despite the civilian assignment, this was the assignment of a man who was a personnel scout, a personnel officer who was no longer in active military service. You see, the exception even in that sense met certain professional requirements? Just to avoid the occasional appointments that you have proposed, which you stand for, have been narrowed down and the requirements to be the only personnel of real military service and of a superior military rank. That's it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u47	Thank you. Any other speeches? General Miho Mihov made a statement, after which Mr. Velizar Enchev, Mr. Metodi Andreev signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since the creation of the Earth Army until 2015, a disturbance in Military Intelligence the Bulgarian Army has not received, but this year we have allowed ourselves to discuss four laws in the security system to disturb this system, and without having any union bad assessments............................in the Warsaw Treaty, or NATO. I believe that the National Assembly should pay attention today and focus our discussion, which is useful thanks to the President's Decree No 197, on this not so much why shouldn't a civilian be appointed director of the service Therefore, I will refer briefly in two areas of party policy and military technical aspects. First of all, every minister, especially in the Ministry of Defense, is creating a political cabinet, let's say, in quotes, a party cabinet. This scope of the political cabinet is very narrow to the level of deputies, and some other structures. However, when this goes into the directorate system, as is the case, I believe that the National Assembly should not allow it to possibly not assume, but even if it does not allow, partisaning of a directorate that is so important. Anyone can draw a parallel immediately with the other state structures of such a kind. Was there such a precedent for the DANS? But it's another structure. It's not military intelligence as subordinated as DANS. On the contrary, it is heavily subordined under the hat, under the command of the Minister and the Chief of Defense and in no way should a party person be allowed there. Let's stop here. In the Lesson, the parallel between this and the justification for a civilian to head the service that national security and defence, you see, are almost the same. No, defence is the main pillar of national security and specially appointed citizens are prepared for defence. These citizens with pagons must also have information about training, about a military crisis and war. Each of us knows, but during our millennium history in the existence of humanity, it has been proven that war is complicated, not complicated, but the most complex social-political phenomenon and special people are preparing for it. In this sense, I think there is no military scout who is not prepared in this scheme and reporting to the commander-in-chief or any commander of tactical strategic units false information, unverified information, non-systemic information. Military Intelligence Technically prepares its personnel under military science and military art at military universities, military schools and military academies. From there they begin to prepare and motivate for this service. We now want to demote them, because it can be like that, it can be like that. In the army, the word can't be used often. You can't tell the troops, "Tomorrow we can step in, but we can defend ourselves." Here things are definite and the decision is followed. We must therefore motivate the people that a senior military of the kind "Military Intelligence," from the main military security of "intelligence," can reach this career growth. It systematically monitors the threats around the state, not only which country, but also where are the targets and weak points of the fighting force, so that it can hit the land group, aviation, missile troops, if any, the ship's group. These things are not acquired in a year or two and are not found under road and at crossroads footage to be prepared. Second, if the commander-in-chief, and, notice, in command and command teachings, in the exercise of troops, in the teachings of the map, the scout is the first to stand from the right to the commander-in-chief and they speak in the same language because they have studied the same schools, they understand each other. If I'm actually, hypothetically, with a civilian, a civilian, I'll try not to embarrass him in front of the rest of the military, because the whole command team is there. He, in order not to embarrass himself, will send his deputy, but responsibility is shared, responsibility must be clearly stated and it was not a coincidence that the head of intelligence was also deputy chief of staff years ago. This sub-ordination is indeed very important, and I believe that the methodical link "Tactical, Operational and Strategic Intelligence" should be headed by a military man in order to benefit from both the military rank and the methodical link. The strategic assessment is built on tactical, operational and vice versa. When you do a tactical task force exercise, you use the most general strategic assessment the military man will give to motivate troops to fight and spill their blood. A civilian can't motivate them in that sense. Finally, I would really like to stress that Military Intelligence, according to the Defence and Armed Forces Act, is part of the Armed Forces, it implements a plan of combat readiness and combat resolution, it really needs to know where the command posts of the opposing parties, their weak units, what communication is and the person is really motivated to serve, as they say, as a citizen with pagons. Thank you. [[Applause from ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u49	Thank you, General, for the speech, it was in the form of a lecture on military matters. [[Noise and lines.]] General Atanasov's reply. It's a general's line. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, I have great respect for Gen. Mihov. We worked together when it was the Kosovo crisis. [[Noise and lines.]] If I may, with less emotion. I want to have a professional debate, not a bully. I mean, General, there has been a major change with this Law regarding the status of this service. She's no longer Department of Defense. I suggested at the beginning of this process of legal regulation of the Security Sector to establish a single intelligence service, which would be very useful for small Bulgaria. That wasn't accepted. I don't want to bring the debate back here right now, but I want to say that if a single intelligence service was established, I would vote with two hands for the unit in the single intelligence service that is involved in military intelligence to be headed by a military officer. You understand that we have now created two equal intelligence services with the same tasks. With the same tasks! The Military Information Service will no longer be involved in merely gathering information on strategic military intelligence, but with all risks and threats to national security. And it is precisely in order for such risks and threats to be assessed that much wider preparation is required, in my opinion, rather than the close preparation of a serviceman. It is now a national service, like all other services that are, and which received legal regulation after the adoption of the laws. So you have to come out of this close-mindedness, I think. That's not the problem here. I ask the question again: is this where we appoint the head of this service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u51	Thank you, General. Mr. Merdjanov, second line, third line, Mr. Andreev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u52	Dear Mr. Mihov, my reply is directed and influenced to a large extent by your speech, and my colleague Atanasov helped me to ask you the following: Do you not see in this appointment of Mr. Bakalov and the desire so zealously to defend this figure as a prelude to the closure of the Office of Military Intelligence? Something that is in the context of understanding and meaning which Mr. Atanasov expressed for a single intelligence service. Because that's the big question. Let us be aware of these successive and soft steps that ultimately aim at a political outcome that will come in a few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u53	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. Mr. Metodi Andreev, last line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u54	Dear Mr. Mihov, I very much respect your expertise, I and the Commission have told you the same thing I'm going to say here. This is not an attempt to party because one of the reasons was exactly that. To be precise, all the old employees in this service were once members of some party, and so were you, Mr. General. Does this mean that when there was a voluntary depoliticisation, it was not effective? Because even now the acting chief of staff was once a party member, but at the moment he is not, so in that regard you are absolutely wrong. And as for the question which you say should best be a person of the service itself, you yourself say that these people should be with a solid, solid military education. Where this education is given, there are the military academies. What you want is that you forbid even those instructors who train scouts who give them the primary knowledge that gives them the principles of intelligence, these people on this proposal can never become the heads of this service. That, too, is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u55	Thank you. Next up is the back of the gene. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u56	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the form of a statement, I will make this rejoinder because it was three not reproaches, but three remarks or unanswered opinions. Firstly, I tried to share with the Chamber that military intelligence serves defence, which is a pillar of national security. Defence is also a form of use of troops and preparation and state of the country for response to wartime conditions. This man and the intelligence community cannot reconcile and measure. The military intelligence officer is responsible for the defense at the cost of everything in terms of threats and gives the most specific information to command troops. I do not dispute that a civilian can write strategies and participate in analysis, as the President intrudes. He even insists that not only because of his military rank, he should take up this position and have the privileges to take it. And who issued the decree? And who appreciates it is fit to be a senior military officer? Isn't that the same Supreme Commander? I wanted not to share Mr. Bakalov's name at all, but you share it. I have never spoken about this person, and I do not believe that the discussion about the President's Decree revolves around the person Mr. Bakalov. At least that's what I want to do, and I've never done it before. In any case, I share the thought that a wider range of military specialists can take up this position. I'm talking about general military commanders listening to scouts and commanding troops and conducting exercises and participating in allied campaigns. The president didn't understand that, in my opinion. This isn't about teachers. When I talked about space topics being taught to our military scouts, yes, these are also former military subjects, but they are not fit to be directors of this directorate. And third, that's how much to raise a director of the Department of Defense on a very high pedestal is not so. This is the director of a department subordinated to the Ministry of Defense and subordinate to at least three levels. And we were even wrong about the idea of DANS and other services giving him a five-year mandate. That's a shame. But this is about another round of discussions. The Chief of Defense has a mandate for four years, to the director of the directorate we give him five years! Let's talk about this in the next round! About the attempt to party. I didn't say he was partying, and I said the hall shouldn't even assume a hint or a possibility of a partying. Each one of us here represents a party and a political power, and where you appoint me, I will also cause confusion to the system. I don't want to cause any disturbance to a working centuries of military intelligence system! Thank you. [[Applause from ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u57	Thank you, sir. National Representative Velizar Enchev on behalf of non-members in parliamentary groups. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u58	Dear colleagues! Today we are witnessing a unique strange and somewhat embarrassing situation. After Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and Mr. Radan Kanev on the right, the first announced that the President of the Republic will return the Act of Military Intelligence adopted here in Parliament, the Head of State duly obeyed this information and vetoed the Law. In fact, we've seen two things before. Firstly, Bulgaria is not a parliamentary republic, but a prime minister republic. Secondly, unfortunately, the Head of State is subordinate to the Prime Minister of Bulgaria. After that in May "Don't forget this, Mr. Prime Minister Borisov came to parliament and ordered his MPs what declaration to vote for the Armenian genocide, today we are again witnessing a similar situation" he ordered, ordered his MPs after having voted in one way the Military Information Act and have taken a professional decision, as the former Chief of Staff General gave a professional assessment. Miho Mihov, so now the same MPs from GERB will have to trample their consciences, some of them Admirals, trample their professional consciences and vote for something they rejected fully consciously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u59	Mr. Enchev, the vote has not passed. Please speak in current times!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u60	I ask myself, on the occasion of this remark of yours: why is Bulgaria one country in which the principle of negative selection prevails? The logic of this negative selection is as follows: the more unfit you are for a job, the better you are to head this office and this job, the further away you are from intelligence, the closer you are to being chief of military intelligence. Did you know, fellow Members, that a month ago the British Queen announced a contest for the appointment of a janitor at Buckingham Palace? And in Bulgaria a man was appointed head of military intelligence who did not even have the qualifications to be a janitor in this office. [[Voices: "Eeeeeee" by GERB.]] When I said the janitor, I'll fix it right away. That's not an insulting word. Hygienist is not an insulting word. [[Relations from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] When I said the janitor, I'll fix it right away. In fact, because of Mr. Yordan Bakalov, a law already voted will be changed to continue the cleansing, cleaning of military intelligence from personnel who are extremely well prepared professionally and mostly to clear the archive of military intelligence, so that the names of Bulgarian collaborators and agents can be transmitted to the Committee of Foreign Citizens, where everyone can enter the reading room freely and to freshen. This may sound very strong, but it is a national betrayal that borders on state treason. But in these 26 years there is already a single nation in Bulgaria and is there a country? In a moment we will vote and I call on the MPs from the Reformation bloc, who proposed Mr. Bakalov and the MPs from GERB party, who have already rejected this unprofessional setup of a civilian to lead military intelligence before voting to answer two questions. Would they vote for a hospital director who doesn't have a medical degree and would they be treated in a hospital like this?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u61	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u62	And the second question: would they agree to appoint a chief of surgery a metallurg and lie under the knife of such a surgeon? After answering these two questions, honourable Members, after answering these two fundamental questions, since I have just heard that someone would lie under the knife of such a metallurg, vote for a metallurgical engineer who, instead of leading a metallurgical combine, will lead military intelligence with all due respect to this profession. On this occasion, I would like to add that there are two generals in this Chamber, Admiral and General, who just spoke, who have the professional qualities, the moral characteristics to take up this position. Why didn't you propose Admiral Manushev as Chief of Military Intelligence? What does Admiral Manushev lack? [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Why didn't you think that I apologize for the bearish service that I am doing to you, Mr. Admiral, as you will immediately be condemned? Why didn't you think that another member of the ruling coalition, the worthy General Miho Mihov, former Chief of Staff, was also worthy of such work? And why, should I conclude and repeat once again, why do you allow the Bulgarian Parliament to legitimise the principle of negative selection, which has led us to this unique, strange and, as I said in the beginning, a shameful situation to raise such people to such a responsible position? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u63	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Admiral, you are entitled to a personal explanation. You're giving up. - What's the line? People's representative Atanas Atanasov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I try not to express myself emotionally, but sometimes I have to. It is not my place to deal with this, but according to the text adopted in the Law, which we are now discussing, unfortunately, my esteemed Admiral Manushev does not meet the requirements because he is not in actual military service. But that's another subject. I don't want to discuss it. I want to tell you, Mr. Enchev, that we should not be surprised here in this Chamber why the attitude of Bulgarian citizens to the National Assembly is low. Because we're humiliating the National Assembly ourselves. The people you are talking about here, who clearly have the capacity to be respected, are MPs. Where are you taking them back to second grade? [[Laughter at GERB.]] They are MPs because according to art. 1, para. 1 from now the current Constitution Bulgaria is a republic with parliamentary government. The higher authority of state is parliament and these people are directly elected by the people, and you now want to return them to become officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u65	Thank you. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Enchev? You don't want a doppelganger. We will continue with the next statement by Mr. Metodi Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In the Commission, I strongly supported the veto of the President because of my deep belief that the question of who should lead the intelligence services of the Republic of Bulgaria should be placed seriously, on a democratic basis. At the moment we hear motives and here are given different arguments that military intelligence can not be led by anyone other than a senior military officer who has had the relevant education and the relevant internship. Nobody denies that. Many services, some of the world's most famous services in the United States, in the European Union, military intelligence is led by precisely such people, no one denies it. But let's ask ourselves this question: what is the story of their military intelligence? Let's see if in their military intelligences now, when I speak, there are 36% remaining in the board members who graduated from GRU schools in the former Soviet Union? Is there a thing in the States or in the European Union?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u67	Yeah, there's more.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u68	This is because it is no secret that Military Intelligence is the most hardened and most closed intelligence community in Bulgaria. That's the truth. The idea of these proposals, which I have signed up to as co-author, is not to arrange for a particular person to serve. In fact, I can tell you more if today the president's veto is accepted, I will be the one to make a change that will remove the corresponding text that settles the person in question. But let's not twist our hands and confuse people's notion that apart from military, military, superior, no one else can be the leader of this military intelligence. The democratic approach, democratic principles say that any Bulgarian citizen who has the relevant expertise, who has the relevant education, can take up this post. That is the point of these proposals. In the field of higher education and in vain in universities, when a contest for a habilitated person is announced, a professor or professor, the conditions do not say that the applicant can only be a lecturer from the higher education institution concerned, but a contest is announced between all people who have the respective censure and meet the conditions among all people from other higher education institutions, including the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. It's no different in the intelligence community. It requires intelligence, requires knowledge of matter. You see, after all, seven months of military intelligence is managed by a man who can't manage it, but he manages it for seven months, and as far as I know, he has serious awards over these seven months by leading intelligence services, NATO military services and the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u69	What's the matter??
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u70	So the story, the facts disprove you. The meaning of these proposals, I say, is deeply democratic. We want this service to be ventilated. We want another approach and another look at the leadership of this service. That is the point of these proposals. I'm gonna ask another question. As we accepted it in the Law, it turns out that officers of the reserve, senior military, who are in good health, can never apply for this post, because in an effort to end this democratic idea, we forgot the officers of the reserve. We forgot the backup officers! I even think that if today the president's veto passes, there must be such a change, there must be such a proposal, so that officers from the reserve can also be candidates, to participate in the contests announced in the future, as chief of this service. On the left side of the room, of course, she's not gonna like it, she's definitely not gonna like it. But I call again, let us preserve the democratic spirit of these proposals, let us support the president's veto and, in changing these texts, let us say what we have missed and correct what some think we are having second thoughts about.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u71	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. - What's the line? People's representative Angel Naydenov the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u72	Dear Mr. Andreev, I will miss the fact that in your speech you have done at least two insults. Of course, I'll make a note of them. First of all, you insulted Mr. Bakalov himself, saying that in addition to the task of dissecrating the archive, his task would be to evict, figuratively speaking, all those who, in your opinion, have completed other training schools for military scouts. So you see its function, this is its function according to you. Secondly, you have affected the Armed Forces system itself. You've missed the fact that several times, including Gen. Mihov, we note that the Military Information Service is an integral part of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. These are command levels. This is an opportunity for professional and personnel development, respectively. In this case, shouldn't the president, just as the supreme commander, ask the question, is there any positions in the state administration that are assigned to be occupied by active servicemen? Having raised the question of why the structure of the Armed Forces should not take certain positions from civilian personnel, shouldn't we also defend the opposite thesis of which positions in the state administration are intended for active servicemen? Here you show a double standard. That's why I'm taking the floor to pay attention to you. This is about military intelligence as part of the Armed Forces. If you pay attention to the Law, it is said that military intelligence is being carried out, there is a certain text, including from the Military Information Service and respectively from the intelligence authorities in the management bodies, respectively, in the types of armed forces. This is what the military structure is about. There is no way that it can not be defended and defended as taking over from the perspective of the professional development of the active servicemen.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u73	Thanks for the line. Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u74	Mr. Naydenov, with your example you gave an exact example of how the devil reads the Gospel with your comment on my speech. I never said that the job of the Chief of Military Intelligence was to expel all that 36%.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u75	That's what he said.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u76	No! His job is to raise young people who have been oppressed for more than 20 years and have not been raised in the hierarchy of this service. Look, Mr. Naydenov, I regret that there is no election of the Ombudsman, because then you would not have been so insistent in defending your thesis, as for example you withdrew all your proposals under the NSO Act shortly before the vote so that you would not defend them. That was clear. I ask you very much not to take part and not to interpret my words from your point of view.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u77	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. Professor Stanilov, in the manner of conduct. Let me ask you some other requests to make a statement so we know when we're going to vote. General Atanasov, there is therefore another statement. Here you go, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u78	I'm a little late on my way out. Dear Mr. Chairman, I suggest that we put an end to this discussion with the following argument. For a very long time Parliament has been dealing with absurdities, as the President has been dealing with. I'll tell you why. Military intelligence is intended to reconnaissance in favor of the army. Gentlemen, do you have an army?! You don't have an army. How many ground forces do they count?! How many tank troops are there?! How many planes are flying?! How many ships are capable of war?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u79	Please, the last sentence is not the way to conduct it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u80	They're naval grandmothers! Mr. Chairman, this is an argument to end the discussion and not to engage in empty affairs! It doesn't matter if he's a civilian or a military man in charge of a structure that's useless! What's the use if there's no army?! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u81	Thank you. Since this is essentially an examination of a bill at first reading, there is no way to end the discussion. I take it as an appeal. There is another request for a statement from General Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I and my colleagues from the Reformation bloc will support the president's veto, as we believe that this text should be rejected. Our arguments are as follows. I regret to repeat myself with some of them, because during the discussion of the Law, I was exposing some of them here, from the parliamentary tribune. Firstly, the appointment of the Head of the Service "Military information" we have decided and this is already a valid text because it is not under attack, to be carried out in accordance with the order of the so-called communal competence "between the executive authority in the face of the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, who must complete the appointment procedure by decree. Therefore, the personal question of who will be the head of the service is a matter that will be decided by institutions outside this House and are equal to the National Assembly. I've had a chance to say this before, but I'm going to allow myself to repeat it: in a sense, professional conversation with the personalization of the matter is being phantomised. It is not true, I repeat, it is not true that the current Head of the Service "Military Information" was appointed on a proposal from the Reformation Block, there is no such procedure. I mean, there are no such facts in the public domain. They're made-up, thrown into this room just to phantom the conversation. As far as the appointment goes, that's all. Why should a wider opportunity be given to the institutions concerned with the appointment in the selection of the person to lead the service? Look, it's been considered so far, and I see here some are still following the old stereotype that this office is the Department of Defense's department for a number of reasons. With the adoption of the Law, this office is non-residential not only because the Prime Minister and the President will appoint its leadership, but in view of the tasks put to it. It will not only deal with gathering information about the risks and threats related to the country's defence but with all risks and threats to the country's security. This requires re-evaluation of the information collected in its analysis the people who will be involved in the evaluation and ultimately who will sign the final report coming out of the service must have a broader view, a wider preparation with regard to the protection of national security. Perhaps I should have started with this because it is extremely important: 25 years the Bulgarian security sector worked with partial regulation. During this period of time N laws were adopted for the Ministry of Interior.. every minister who came made a law, and there were structures in the security sector, which is what is Military Intelligence...... for which the MPs, in general the representation in this Chamber, did not wish to have legal regulation. Why?! Because there was resistance to legal regulation in order to preserve the status quo. Now some were irritated. Some were intrusive! That's the truth. In the spring of this year, a question was asked by MPs, the Defence Minister replied that 36% of the current leadership of the Military Information Service are officers who have graduated from the special schools of the Soviet Union. Maybe it gives them better opportunities to work in some parts of the world. Nothing bad. However, with this text, you want to force the institutions that have to select the head of this service to raise a person only from these 36%, to limit them, which is unacceptable and is retrograde, sorry for my stronger assessment. There were phrases of the kind: "You twist your hands!" Who's twisting the arms? ▪ Those who want to give the Prime Minister and the President a greater opportunity for selection, or those who want to give a very close opportunity to elect a head of this service? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u83	Please! A little quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u84	I wouldn't want to go in here and have fun. Someone might get offended. Excuse me, but examples from the past were given as to how the commander of the ground troops was appointed as Chief of Military Intelligence. This is nonsense because the specifics of operational work are quite different, requires other knowledge, capabilities and abilities, not knowing the structure of the armed forces. Operating work, first of all, means being able to make proper selection in which environments to approach, from which persons to seek cooperation to collect information; then, the management and training of the so-called However, do not go now into details of the technology of the work of this service.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u85	Thank you, General Atanasov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Atanasov, I take occasion to make a reply because, purely consciously, I am trying to understand and understand the positiveness of your motives. I'd rather do two parallels. The first one is: is it possible to go to a chess tournament when you've never played chess? I'm doing this metaphor because national security in its component is actually a tactic that tactic is the main priority of the chess game. A tactic that, through expertise, knowledge, skills and competences, should involve prevention. Secondly, it seems to me that when we speak in today's national security conditions, neither of us has read a summary report that will sign off on the overall level of national security currently in Bulgaria, including internal security, including defence, including common national security. Because if we continue to try, and in most cases fail, the type of sample-fault, to appoint to positions people who are trying to run certain departments and certain directorates, and all of this being at the expense of the people, at the expense of national security, then I believe that if yesterday and today we are calming employees of internal security in the face of the Ministry of Interior, then tomorrow we will have the same conversations with the people who work in the defence system, for the reason that they do not feel security, because they feel that they are being managed by people who have the necessary expertise. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u87	Please, last sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u88	And all of this has a very negative impact even on internal motivational mechanisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u89	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. The second line is the People's Representative Petar Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u90	Mr. Chairman, my line to colleague Atanasov is that it wasn't...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u91	Would you like a time extension that you only have 20 seconds?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u92	Yes, please extend my time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u93	Please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u94	My point is that he was not accurate in part of his speech, namely in percentage. I think you said 35, and it's actually 40% according to the data we heard in this room personally from the Secretary of Defense. In fact, in this office are individuals who have begun their career development before 1991. And I take the opportunity to ask him, according to him, what is the probability that one person could be awarded a senior officer position within the defence system and be a real serviceman, to fall precisely among those nearly 40% and have completed one of these or actually one school in the Soviet Union, which we know was then completed. And my other question to him within the line is: what is more dangerous in this situation, that is, in our partnership with NATO, to have the head of the military intelligence man who has graduated from such a school, not God himself, or to have the head of the Military Intelligence Person, which, for example, was part of the defence system, then has passed in the civilian sector, as we understand there are also persons in this room, and is given the opportunity to head again Military Intelligence, which, by the current or rather returned Law, cannot happen because such persons are not in real military service? So please specify these things in your asshole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u95	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Third line? I can't see. A hole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Belemezov, I've been trying to say all along and it's good to listen. We're not hiring. Other authorities and institutions received this right after the Law was voted on. The question is, what frameworks do we put on these institutions, are we narrow, or are we allowing for wider selection? I am for the Prime Minister and the President to have a greater opportunity to select for the appointment of this employee. And I've never said from this tribune that a military officer with a high military rank couldn't take up that position. If the Prime Minister and the President find such a person and consider that he has the qualities to appoint him. That's their right. That's it. Otherwise, I wouldn't want to get into this because I really wanted to talk more professionally, but obviously I have to say: in the 1970s, I don't remember exactly the year, a treaty has been signed between the People's Republic of Bulgaria and the Soviet Union, which creates the so-called system. That's how she was named. Under this treaty, the Bulgarian special services were obliged to provide the Soviet intelligence and counterintelligence bodies with all their operational positions. Do you realize what this is about? We're talking here today about handing over the archives. They're from 30 years ago in the Soviet Union! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u97	Thank you. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. We are going into voting mode, honourable Members. Just a reminder that, essentially, according to the president's veto, we are voting again on the Law. If we want to overcome the President's veto, a minimum of 121 votes should be obtained for the President. The President's veto is voted against. Dear colleagues, we are voting on the Military Intelligence Act adopted by the National Assembly on 1 October 2015 and returned for a new discussion with the President's Decree No 197 of 14 October 2015. Please vote. Vote 176 MPs: 159, against 15, abstention 2. [[Applause.]] The motion has been accepted and the president's veto has been rejected. I'm calling a break until 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u98	Members of the National Assembly, please enter the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u99	We're here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u100	You're here, but not all of you. Quaestors, invite your colleagues! The sitting continues with point 9th of our weekly programme: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CORPORATE SUB-CROATATION. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u101	Thank you, Madam President. My procedural proposal is to postpone the examination due to a gross violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Budget and Finance Commission. The text of art. 78 is stated that all the bills of the relevant matter which have been received until the day of examination are considered. The Budget Committee does not consider the other draft laws tabled under tax laws which, in the Transitional and Final Orders of this Law on Corporate Income Tax, are included, namely the Law on Income Taxation of Individuals and the Law on Value Added. In this situation, it is absurd for this House to do the same thing in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Yesterday, when the agenda for the week was formed, we raised that question. I also took the liberty of writing a letter on purpose about the rude violation of the Rules of Procedure. I have some suspicion that also, both with the police, they will not understand what is happening to them, and now with the taxes, the progressive taxation for individuals, and the value added tax, the amended Law relating to relief for the goods, the children's, you do not want to allow them, the majority, in plenary for discussion. Throw them away. It's okay. You have a majority, but you cannot make such a constitutional violation that is blocking the possibility of discussing legislative initiatives. This makes the functioning of the National Assembly void and is in grave contradiction with the Constitution. So I suggest that we postpone this point, that the Committee on Budget and Finance do its job in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and move forward with the examination of tax laws. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u102	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the procedural proposal to postpone the point of the weekly programme. Abort the vote. There's no quorum. I'm calling an adjournment at 12.15. All Members of the National Assembly, please be in the Chamber at 12.15. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u103	The hearing is ongoing. Before the interruption Mr. Mikov made a procedural proposal to drop the item. 9 The first vote of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Corporate Income Tax from our weekly programme. I put to the vote a procedural proposal to drop the point from our program. Quaestors, help the MPs who have a problem with the consoles. From the ABC, the front row has a problem. Mr. Boychev, I see Mr. Turnover with my hands up. Abort the vote. 110 MPs voted: 47, Against 56, abstentioned 7. The offer is not accepted. Procedure, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am making a procedural proposal. The upcoming discussion of changes to the Corporate Tax Act should be postponed as the first item for tomorrow's meeting. Right now you will order the President of the Budget Committee to meet the requirement of art. 78, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It requires committees to discuss all bills that affect the same matter. This means that they should be included today in a meeting of the Budget Committee the two amendments to the Law on Individual Tax and the amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax. So in my opinion, we have no way of continuing today's discussion in violation of the Rules and do not force us to take any other action, because these Rules matter if it is a manual for the National Assembly's activities, not some paper that should create a democratic decor. Therefore, I ask you once again to call on the MPs, not only from BSP left Bulgaria, but also the others, to apply the Rules of Procedure by adopting this procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u105	In essence, the procedural proposal is to postpone the point to be point one for tomorrow. There's no opposite opinion. I shall put this proposal to the vote. Vote 117 MPs: 51, against 58, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u106	The only reason for the revoting is to vote so that we can work according to the Rules. If you are against the progressive taxation of individuals, if you are against the reimbursement of the tax paid to the poorer people, you will say it, you will argue it and you will reject it, but you cannot pretend that these topics do not exist in Bulgaria, and do not give us any reason to believe that, as you are willing to do fraud in elections, you are doing fraud in the National Assembly itself. [[Voices: "Eeeee!" by GERB.]] I'm asking for a re-vote. [[Applause and banging on banks from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u107	It's a re-vote. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB and BSP LB. A line from the MP Mihail Mikov.]] Colleagues, control the emotion. Vote 116 MPs: 54, against 58, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. The way you're holding Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u108	Madam President, I also call on you to follow the Rules of Procedure. The meaning and existence of the Bulgarian Parliament cannot be replaced. You have a majority to reject and progressive income tax, and you have a majority not to accept the VAT relief for children's foods and supplies. You have a majority! Why are you afraid to discuss and say your arguments, or just like you and the cops want to do it through the backyard?! This is unacceptable abuse against the sense of parliament, otherwise there is no sense in Parliament. These things we can talk about in other places, not in your paid media, but in other places. The meaning of parliament is different. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You have won elections, you have a majority, why are you afraid to discuss these issues?! Why are you afraid to tell the police that the right-wing government is taking away social rights and not giving?! Madam President, I appeal to you: Yours is the greatest responsibility for complying with the Rules of Procedure. One President of the Commission, he and Menda Stoyanova, cannot violate the Rules of Procedure in the Commission, and you must not comply with Art. 78. [[BSP LB banks rumbling]] It specifically says what you need to do here to include these items on the agenda, and besides discussing, and voting. It's scandalous. It's never happened in 25 years. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Right are those who say that you are pushing Bulgaria into authoritarian fascisoid regime. [[Voices: "Eeeee!" by GERB.]] Get Boyko Borisov to write you what to do and get it over with! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Why don't you have arguments and why are you turning Parliament into some kind of doormat? [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u109	Dear Mr. Mikov, I strictly respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. [[(Replications from the MPs Mihail Mikov and Atanas Merdjanov:]] The President may not include and propose in the weekly programme bills which have not been discussed in the relevant committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u110	The deadline for discussion has expired.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u111	You are absolutely right that the time for discussion has expired, but that is why the rules under art. 50, para. 8 where, at the initiative of a parliamentary group, they are included in the weekly programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u112	Why didn't you turn them on yesterday?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u113	Because your group was first on the first Wednesday of October. If you insisted on watching these laws, you could have suggested one of them...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u114	We proposed them yesterday, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u115	...but instead you proposed at the beginning, the first Wednesday of October, a draft decision for Ukraine. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] You have felt that this question about your political power is more substantial. I'm strictly sticking to the rules. I repeat, I cannot include in the weekly programme bills on which there are no reports from the relevant committee. [[Applause from GERB. Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. [[Strong noise and banging on banks from BSP LB.]] I expect a rapporteur for the report by the Committee on Budget and Finance. [[Bleeping at banks and whistling, loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u116	There's no report like that. [[Bleeping at banks, whistling and loud noise from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u117	We're listening, Mrs. Yordanova. [[BSP LB banks rumbling continues.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u118	Madam President... [[National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva takes photos with her mobile phone of the parliamentary group of BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u119	Ms. Karayancheva, the hall is not a movie studio! Ms. Karayancheva! [[Banging on banks continues.]] We're listening, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u120	Madam President, I propose that we vote on admission to Mr. Fezi Bekir's room.. Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Finance; Ludmila Petkova Director at the Department of Tax Policy. [[(the reporter spoke in the continuing banging on the banks, shouting, "Omission!") Resignation! (BSP LB)]] , and Rosen Ivanov "Director in the Directorate of................................................................. in the [[(Sighs:) Resign! Resignation! (BSP LB, banging on banks.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u121	Mrs. Yordanova, stop. Due to noise and disorder in the Chamber, which is why it cannot continue the sitting, we interrupt for 10 minutes. We'll continue at 12.40. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] (After the interruption.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u122	The hearing is ongoing. Mrs. Stoyanova's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u123	Honourable Members, I am making a procedural proposal to postpone the examination of the point of the Corporate Income Tax Act, as next week as points one and two to look at tax laws. [[(Applause from the BSP and shouts, "Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u124	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by Mrs. Stoyanova. Vote 94 MPs: 91 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Let's move on to the next point: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CIVIL AIRCRAFT. Importer is the Council of Ministers. For the second vote report we are listening to you, Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u125	Thank you, Madam President. The Law on Civil Aviation is amended and supplemented by the Law on Civil Aviation. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u126	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of the Import Act supported by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u127	Under Paragraph 1, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following wording: ................................................................................... In The Directorate-General for Civil Aviation is the competent authority for the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 February 2008 on common rules in the field of civil aviation, establishing a European Aviation Safety Agency and repealing Council Directive 91/670/EEC, Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 and Directive 2004/36/EC (OJ L 79, 19 March 2008.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u128	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 1 on the Commission report. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u129	Under Paragraph 2, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following wording: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16b The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3, p. 2 the words "Regulation (EC) No 261/2004 on common rules for the compensation and assistance of passengers for refusal of an air carrier to allow them on board the aircraft and, in the event of cancellation or delay of a flight' are replaced by "Regulation (EC) No 261/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 February 2004 establishing common rules for the compensation and assistance of passengers in the event of denied boarding and cancellation or long delay of flights' and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 295/91 (OB, L 46/1 of 17 February 2004).), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No 26'. 2. A new para is being created. 5. The Air Transport Administration General Directorate shall monitor the performance of the air carriers' duties under Regulation (EC) No 261/2004 as a national authority responsible for the implementation of that Regulation. 3. Previously on AMC's... 5 and 6 become respectively. 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u130	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 2 in the version of the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The proposal shall be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u131	No proposals have been made under paragraphs 3 and 4. The Commission supports the text of the importer for paragraphs 3 and 4, and I propose that an anbloc be voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u132	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 3 and 4 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u133	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 5 and shall propose the following wording: .................................................................................. Article 71 is amended as follows: Art. 71. The passenger may withdraw from the transport contract and receive back the transport price in the case of an illness, including a family member who will travel with him established by a medical establishment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u134	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 5 in the version of the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: 92 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u135	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 6 and shall propose the following wording: ........................................................... Article 76 is amended as Art. 76. In the case of carriage of baggage, the liability of the carrier shall be subject to the requirements of the Convention on the uniformisation of certain international air transport rules drawn up in Montreal on 28 May 1999. (Rated by law............................................................................................... No. 67 of 2003; (BW, No. 6 from 2004) and Council Regulation (EC) No 2027/97 of 9 October 1997 on the liability of air carriers in the event of accidents.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u136	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 6 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u137	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 7 and shall propose the following wording: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced A penalty of 2000 to 5000 BGN is imposed. of: 1. an air carrier which fails to fulfil its obligations in the event of denied boarding access under art. 4, § 1 of Regulation (EC) No 261/2004; 2. an air carrier which fails to meet its obligations to compensate passengers for denied boarding access against their will under art. 4, § 3 of Regulation (EC) No 261/2004; 3. an air carrier which fails to fulfil its obligations in the event of cancellation of a flight pursuant to art. 5, § 1, points (a) and (b) and (c) of Regulation (EC) No 261/2004; 4. an air carrier which fails to comply with its obligations to provide the relevant assistance to passengers in the event of a delay in flight pursuant to art. 6, § 1, points (i) and (ii) and (iii) of Regulation (EC) No 261/2004; 5. an air carrier which refuses to grant the right of compensation under art. 7, § 1 of Regulation (EC) No 261/2004; 6. an air carrier which fails to fulfil its obligations to pay within 7 days the compensation under art. 8 of Regulation (EC) No 261/2004; 7. an air carrier which refuses the right to care under art. 9 paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Regulation (EC) No 261/2004; 8. an air carrier which fails to fulfil its obligations to recover within 7 days the part of the ticket price according to art. 10, § 2, points (a) and (b) and (c) of Regulation (EC) No 261/2004; 9. an air carrier which fails to comply with its obligations to inform passengers of their rights under art. 14 paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Regulation (EC) No 261/2004; 10. an air carrier which does not respond to passengers' complaints within 6 weeks from the date of their submission; 11. an air carrier which does not respond within the specified time limit to the requests addressed to it by a national authority under art. 16, § 1 of Regulation (EC) No 26
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u138	Paragraph 7 statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 7 in its version on the Commission report. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u139	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 8 and shall propose the following wording: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 143b: Art. 143b. A financial penalty is imposed from 100 to 1000 BGN. to an air carrier which does not fulfil its obligations to inform about the final price with the tariffs and charges included in it pursuant to art. 23 of Regulation (EC) No are to be implemented by the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 September 2008 on common rules for the operation of air services in the Community (OB, L 293/3 of 31 October 2008.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u140	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 8 in its version on the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u141	The Commission proposes to establish § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 147b, para. 1 words "al." The following points are inserted after
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u142	Statements? I won't. We are voting on § 9 - the new one, which the Commission proposes on its report. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. With this and the law of second vote. Moving on to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR ADMISSION OF A DECLARATION BY ARTICLE 287, AL. 1 OF THE UN MARITIME LAW CONVENTION FOR RECOGNITION OF THE JURISDICATION OF THE INTERNATIONAL TRIBUNAL OF MARITIME LAW. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Reports have been received from the committees to which the bill has been allocated. First, we will hear the report of the committee responsible for legal matters. We're listening, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Before that, I am making an admission procedure in the hall of Mr. Vassily Takev, Permanent Secretary to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u144	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u145	Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the bill adopting the Declaration on Art. 287, para. 1 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea on the Recognition of the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, No 502-01-80, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 September 2015. At its meeting held on 24 September 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Bill. The meeting was attended by Ms. Katya Todorova, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Mr. Dilyan Stalev, Senior Expert in the Department of International Law at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The bill was presented by Ms. Katya Todorova. It provides for the Republic of Bulgaria to make a declaration under art. 287, para. 1 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea to recognise the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Law of the Sea to resolve disputes in the field of the Law of the Sea. This requires an amendment to the declaration made by Bulgaria in 1992 for the recognition of the mandatory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice in respect of all matters in the field of international law, which is to exclude from that jurisdiction disputes relating to the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea or to another multilateral or bilateral treaty, as well as to common international law in the field of the Law of the Sea. During the discussion the people representative Chavdar Georgiev raised a question about what range of disputes will be decided by the tribunal and whether Bulgaria's neighbouring countries from the Black Sea region have joined him. The International Court of Justice of the Sea has jurisdiction to settle disputes concerning the interpretation or application of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea itself. She clarified that there is still no neighbouring country to Bulgaria that has joined the tribunal. Committee on Legal Issues with 10 votes for.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 287, para. 1 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea on the Recognition of the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, No 502-01-80.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. We will now also hear the report of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Mrs. Grozdanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u147	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for the adoption of the Declaration under art. 287, para. 1 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea on the Recognition of the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, No 502-01-80, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 September 2015. At a regular meeting held on 28 October 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers. The reasons for the bill were presented by Mr. Rumen Alexandrov "Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs." The Republic of Bulgaria signed the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea on 10 December 1982 and ratified the Convention by Law adopted on 24 April 1996. 167 States are currently parties to the Convention, as well as the European Union as from 15 May 2011. The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea is defined as the "Constitution of the Seas and Oceans" because it introduces a stable order and regulates all aspects of the management and use of the seas and oceans. The Convention regulates the rights and obligations of the countries in the territorial sea, the adjacent zone, the exclusive economic zone and the continental shelf, the high seas, the straits, as well as the carrying out of marine research and research, the protection and protection of the marine environment, the exploration and exploitation of the resources of the sea and ocean floor and its subservient, which do not fall within the national jurisdiction of any State so-called "Rion" and which are defined as the wealth of all humanity. In accordance with art. 287, para. 1 of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea each State when signing, ratifying or joining the Convention, or at any time thereafter, may make a declaration recognising one or more of the bodies listed in the provision to resolve disputes over the interpretation and application of the Convention. These bodies are as follows: the International Court of Justice for the Law of the Sea, the International Court of Justice of the United Nations, the Arbitration of Annex VII and the Special Arbitration of Annex VIII, this arbitration deals with disputes concerning fishing, protecting and protecting the marine environment, marine research, shipping, vessel pollution, etc. The Annex VII Arbitration to the Convention shall be activated when the Parties to the dispute have recognised different bodies. The International Court of Justice of the Sea with the seat of Hamburg (Germany) was established in 1996 under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and its Statute was annexed as Annex VI to the Convention. The tribunal consists of 21 independent members selected from among persons with internationally recognised competence in the field of maritime law and enjoying the highest reputation for impartiality and incorruptibility. The tribunal's jurisdiction covers the consideration of disputes in the area of maritime law, which is mandatory in two cases, unless the parties to a dispute have negotiated something different: 1. cases concerning the immediate release of ships and their crews in accordance with art. 292 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, and 2. when determining provisional measures in accordance with art. 290, para. 5 of the Convention. The draft law proposes the Republic of Bulgaria to make a declaration under art. 287, para. 1 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea to recognise the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Law of the Sea to resolve disputes in the field of the Law of the Sea. Recognition of the jurisdiction of the Maritime Law Tribunal in practice means that our country entrusts this specialized judicial institution with the resolution of disputes in the field of maritime law, thus bringing this category of disputes out of the common jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice of the United Nations, which is generally competent to interpret all types of disputes in the field of international public law. This requires amendment of the declaration that Bulgaria made in 1992 for recognition of the mandatory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice of the United Nations regarding all issues in the field of international law. 36, p. 2 of the Statute of the Court of Justice. The amendment to this Declaration shall be in addition to disputes in respect of which the Republic of Bulgaria has indicated that it does not recognise the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice of the United Nations and, in particular, the exclusion from that jurisdiction of disputes relating to the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea or to any other multilateral or bilateral treaty, as well as to general international law in the field of the Law of the Sea. After hearing the reasons for the bill, a discussion and a vote was held, as a result of which, with 12 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposed to the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 87, para. 1, of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to accept the draft Law on the adoption of the Declaration under art. 287, para. 1 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea on the Recognition of the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Law of the Sea.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. The debate is open. Are there any MPs who would like to take part in the first reading Bill? I can't see. The debate is closed. I shall put to the first vote a bill adopting the Declaration under art. 287, para. 1 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea on the Recognition of the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, No 502-01-80, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 September 2015. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The bill was voted unanimously at first reading. Mrs. Atanasova's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u149	Thank you, Madam President. I am making a procedure for examining the Bill and voting at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u150	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u151	THE LAW OF THE adopting a Declaration under art. 287, para. 1 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea on the Recognition of the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Law of the Sea A single member. Republic of Bulgaria in accordance with art. 287, para. 1 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, ratified by law (SG No. ...), (pron., SG No. ...), in force for the Republic of Bulgaria as of 14 June 1996, shall adopt the following declaration: In accordance with art. 287, para. 1 of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, the Republic of Bulgaria recognises the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Settlement of Disputes concerning the interpretation or application of this Convention. Final provisions § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 of the Law on the Adoption of a Declaration of Recognition of the mandatory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice and the withdrawal of reserves under the provisions of certain international conventions providing for such jurisdiction (Art. (b) after the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ § 2. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u152	Thank you. Statements as for a second vote on the specific texts and the name? I won't. I put the bill to the vote at second reading. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Moving on to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR SOCIAL HELP. Importer is the Council of Ministers. There has been a report from the leading Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, as well as reports from the Committees on Children, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Legal Affairs. There is no report by the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, although the Bill is dated 5 August 2015. We're listening to the lead committee report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u153	Thank you. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, in connection with the discussion of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children, I am making a procedural proposal in the Chamber to allow the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Lazar Lazarov to be admitted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u154	We are voting on this proposal. Cancel the vote. There's no quorum. There's no way we're letting this deputy minister into this room. Proceed with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u155	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act, No 502-01-65, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2015. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at its regular meeting held on 16 September 2015 examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act, No 502-01-65, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin, Deputy Prime Minister for Social and Demographic Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy and Mrs. Elena Kremenlieva, Director of the Social Inclusion Directorate at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The bill also provides for the facilitation of procedures for entering the register of social service providers and for their licensing. The exchange of information by official means between the State Agency for the Protection of the Child (SPA) and the Agency for Social Assistance (SPA) is regulated by providing for the possibility of entering in the register of the ASPA of the suppliers authorised by the Chairman of the SACP. Changes relating to the removal of the need to provide documents and information that are publicly available through the Trade Register database are also proposed and the time limit for the removal of deficiencies in the attached documents is optimized. The introduction of a 3-year period of validity of the social services certificates issued, aiming at achieving consistency between licensing and registration regimes, is proposed. In order to improve the collection of fees for social services delegated by the State, it is intended to be carried out by the relevant municipality in whose territory the service is carried out. A condition for the termination of the provision of a social service is introduced, if the person using the service has not paid it for a period of more than 3 months. The definition of social service introduces the requirement to apply an individual approach to the consumer and define the types of services according to the way they are provided in the community and in specialized institutions. An individual assessment of support needs and an individual plan developed by a multidisciplinary team is envisaged. A requirement for the identification of a social worker leading the case shall be introduced for work in cases of children, persons with permanent disabilities and persons placed under detention. An important point of the amendments proposed by the Bill is the introduction of a limit within the period for accommodation in specialized institutions for children, people with permanent disabilities and persons placed under a full block of up to 3 years. The aim of the change is to prevent permanent institutionalisation but to periodically seek opportunities for reintegration and life in the community. A change is also envisaged as regards the differentiation of the different hypotheses of the use of social services in the community and in specialised institutions by adults placed under a limited or complete limitation. In the case of persons placed under a limited limitation, priority shall be given to the person's desire for the use of all types of services. In the case of persons placed under full suspension, two arrangements shall be provided for depending on the type of service. Social services in the Community (with the exception of resident services) will be provided according to the wishes of the person and his guardian, taking into account the decision of the guardian board in the absence of a single wish. Accommodation in social services in the community of resident type and in specialized institutions will be carried out in judicial order. Among the other proposals for changes is the introduction of a new obligation of the ASA to maintain a centralised integrated information system, the responsibility of the mayors of municipalities to meet the criteria and standards for social services delegated by the state and local activities is also regulated. There is also a requirement that the granting of the management of social services delegated by the State should take place only after the service has been disclosed and additional control measures for suppliers are regulated. The critical remarks to the bill, expressed in the opinions received, are regarding the lack of a comprehensive conceptual vision for development in the field of social services, the need to develop a clear financial regulation for consumers to all suppliers, and not only to those operating with state resources; the lack of regulation on the functioning of integrated social services, understood as crossing systems and funding mechanisms. Attention is drawn to the fact that, after the expiry of the 3-year maximum period for accommodation in specialised institutions, the provision of services is not envisaged, especially where there are no other options for taking care of the persons concerned. During the discussion, it was noted that a new Social Services Act was being prepared, which would regulate a broader framework of mechanisms for the functioning of social services. At the end of the discussion and voting with results: 14 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ He proposes to the National Assembly to support a bill amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act submitted by the Council of Ministers in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u156	The report of the Commission on children, youth and sport follows. Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u157	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act, No 502-01-65, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2015. At its regular meeting on 23 September 2015, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sport examined the Bill. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. One part of the proposed amendments and additions is related to improving access to social services, guaranteeing consumer rights, including the right to free choice. Another part of the changes relates to the need to align the regulations relating to the registration and licensing of persons who can provide social services in accordance with the Law on the limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business. The bill also aims to improve the collection of the fees that social service users are paying by the State. An obligation of the municipalities is introduced regarding the collection of revenue from fees in the territory of the municipality. It is regulated that the social services supplied by the state activities are free of charge for children. The Commission provided written opinions to the Agency for Child Protection and the National Network of Children. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: 10 votes for........ no.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u158	Thank you. Now let's hear the report from the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u159	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act, No 502-01-65, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2015. At its meeting held on 4 November 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Lazar Lazarov Deputy Minister and Mrs. Elena Kremenlieva Director of the Social Inclusion Directorate. The bill was presented by Mr. Lazar Lazarov. The Law aims to refine the legislation in the field of social services. The proposed changes are related to stimulating social service providers and easing their registration and licensing procedures in accordance with the Law on limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business. The principle of an individual approach to users of social services is introduced by improving access to them, including the right to free choice. The bill introduces a comprehensive assessment of the needs of users of social services as well as an individual plan developed by specialists with specific knowledge. The designation of a leading social worker shall be proposed in children, persons with permanent disabilities and persons subject to an obstacle. The amendment and the Supplement to the Law propose that the exchange of information between the State Agency for Child Protection and the Agency for Social Assistance be carried out on a professional basis by maintaining a centralised integrated information system. In accordance with the provisions of the Law and the licensing of social service providers, amendments and additions to the Child Protection Act are envisaged. In the discussion took part the People's Representative Lachezar Nikiforov, who expressed his support for the bill. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Issues with 14 votes for the Council of Ministers, no objection, and 1 vote abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement to the Social Assistance Act, No 502-01-65, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u160	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Colleagues, the debate is open. Is there anyone who would like to speak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u161	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The bill amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act aims to improve the legal basis in the field of social services provision. The main changes aim to regulate in the Social Assistance Act and the Child Protection Act all provisions concerning the terms and conditions of registration and licensing of persons who can provide social services to adults and children up to 18 years of age. The aim is to ease procedures and stimulate social service providers. The change concerns the exchange of information by official means between the State Agency for Child Protection and the Agency for Social Assistance with regard to the licenses issued by service providers, which allows for a professional entry in the Register of the ASP and at the same time a licence and a certificate for that activity. It is also possible to send the necessary documents in accordance with the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature. A 3-year period of validity of the social service certificates issued shall be introduced which ensures the rights of consumers through the possibility of receiving services to active providers. The period for granting a licence from two to one month shall also be reduced. The bill aims to improve the collection of fees that the persons owe for the use of services. Such responsibility is assigned to the mayors of municipalities whose obligation is to provide information about the fees paid to the Social Services Fund. For its part, this fund is tasked to inform the Ministry of Finance and, respectively, if the person has not paid the service for more than three months, to suspend its provision. The changes are also important in the Social Assistance Act, which aim at improving access to services, guaranteeing the right to free choice, ensuring an individual approach and a complex assessment of needs. An individual assessment of support needs and an individual plan for this support by a multidisciplinary team is introduced, which can attract specialists who have knowledge and experience greater than the experience of social workers. The period for accommodation in specialised institutions is proposed not to be more than three years for children and people with permanent disabilities, thus looking for the possibility of reintegration and life in the community. For adults placed under a limited limitation, the use of the service is intended to be subject to the wishes of the person and his trustee. Accommodation in social services of a resident type and in specialized institutions is proposed to take place only under a judicial decision. The bill also proposes the following changes. The responsibility of the mayor of the municipality is regulated to respect the standards for the provision of social services delegated by the State and local activities. This relates to the mayor's right to manage all social services within the municipality. A part of the functions of the Agency for Social Assistance shall be reviewed stressing its role as methodological support in the provision of social services and introducing a new obligation to maintain a centralised integrated information system. The powers of inspectors from the Inspectorate to the ASP in the provision of social services and in the event of detected infringements shall be supplemented. The grounds for deletion of registration of social service providers and penalties for persons providing services without having a licence shall be extended. The cases in which persons are not entitled to registration shall be regulated. A requirement is introduced for the award of the management of social services (State-sponsored activities) to provide the supplier with the full amount of funds constituting the financial standard within the time limits within which subsidies from the State budget are made available. All these amendments proposed by the Council of Ministers in the Draft Law are positive. On the one hand, they protect the interests of disadvantaged people who are de facto users of social services and, on the other hand, reduce the administrative burden of registration and licensing by service providers. Due to all these arguments, the MPs from the political party GERB will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Grigorova. - What's the line? Come in, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u163	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Deputy Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u164	There is no Deputy Minister because your parliamentary group is missing and we could not allow it in the Chamber. [[Laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u165	This bill aims to improve the legal framework in the field of social services, which is made in three main directions: changes relating to registration and licensing of persons providing social services; changes related to the collection of fees paid by persons; and changes related to improving the accessibility of social services. At first glance and in general terms, the proposed changes are acceptable because they are rather changes proposed expertly than politically, but I wanted to see in this bill the overall concept of social assistance in Bulgaria; to see the concept of the government; to see that the question of the effectiveness of the social assistance system is being brought out in the foreground and that the proposed political solutions for achieving this effectiveness are genuine. Unfortunately, what is proposed is some response to problems arising, as is the case with cases against Bulgaria, as is the case with the non-collection of fees by users of social services, i.e. there is no overall vision for social assistance. I have also carefully familiarized myself with the opinions on the Bill. Many of them, especially those of social service providers, have a position that there are proposals that do not comply with the motives of the Emergency Change Bill and even more about being hasty and thoughtless. And something very important, which I stress: are not part of a systematic change in social legislation. This is entirely in support of my claim that there is no concept of social assistance for this government. In their opinions, they also say that some of the texts are contrary to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, while others will create serious difficulties and problems in providing social services. However, we will talk about this in the second vote. Dear colleagues, in the proposals for amendments to the Family Aid Act for Children, I and my parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria have seen a stated attitude for introducing changes in the field of social assistance to reduce the abuse of some of the programs. Some of the proposals were meaningful, others not so much, but for me the act of realizing the problems of social assistance and the stated desire to solve them deserve support. Then, as a group, we supported them with anticipation of follow-up. So now I am disappointed with this proposal because I do not see in it a continuation of the policy that has been initiated. I would like to say very clearly: the proposed changes must be expert, correct and necessary, but my expectations for changes in social assistance, and precisely in the Social Assistance Act, are that these changes must necessarily lead to an increase in the effectiveness of the social assistance system, and that is not there. Of course, the question of effectiveness is very interesting and can be interpreted differently. That is why I say that by "efficient use" I do not mean directing aid funds where they will have the greatest effect by taking them away from some needy and focusing on others, and I mean with the financial resources that we have, what is the best result that we can achieve. To direct the resource so that it has the greatest benefit of it for support, because this financial resource is not of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy or the Agency for Social Assistance, but of the Bulgarian taxpayer. We also have to ask ourselves how the proposed changes help to solve the problem of poverty and inequality in Bulgaria, because is the Social Assistance Act the main law with which social policy is implemented and must give solutions to these problems?! I will say again: I lack the overall approach to solving social assistance problems. There is a package of laws with which this support is arranged, I will not list them and it is imperative that the package and synchronized change. I am sure that the ultimate goal of this change or to call it reform must be an effective channelling of funds to the people who need them most. In the context of limited financial opportunities, modern social systems should aim not only at sustainable and long-term softening of the negative consequences of social exclusion, but at the most quickly removing the person in need of social isolation. Increasing the number of successful cases of social integration, as well as increasing the effectiveness of authorities administering social assistance, will lead to the release of a resource to be used to enhance the effects of the programmes carried out. I probably do not need to remind you that the Bulgarian social support system needs a number of structural and legislative changes to help improve public services as well as optimize public spending. It is necessary to ensure that budgetary expenditure is directed as efficiently as possible to the people who need it most. Very few politicians or parties, not to say nobody wants to deal with the issues of social assistance because, unfortunately, they concern very large groups of our society. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy at the end of July 2015 stated that working groups are currently working on a whole new Social Assistance Act, as well as on amendments to the Law on Persons with Disabilities. These Bills must be presented to the public for discussion. Then I got the impression that it was going in the right direction. Now I understand that work has really been started in this direction, and I hope that in the new bill on which these groups are working, let us see everything I have outlined above. However, it is not clear to me why things are taking so long and perhaps an answer should be given why experts from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy expect this bill to start working only from mid-2017. This is my common attitude to the proposed bill. I'll allow myself to make a few more concrete remarks. First, on changes relating to the registration and licensing of persons who can provide social services. It is formally approached on this issue, and it is essential for the functioning and development of social services, because the proposal made in § 7 makes it impossible for an organisation other than the municipality to initiate a social service which will subsequently become financed by the State as a state delegated activity. As if private suppliers having their own building and providing a successful social service would have to transfer it to the municipality in order to reveal the social service and then to appear in a competition in order to obtain the right to provide it. Don't you think that this is how we restrict and prejudge the choice of social service providers? Secondly, the changes relating to the collection of fees paid by beneficiaries of social services. Don't you have any concern that when the fees for using social services are not paid for more than three months, we will deprive those in need of this service, for whom the service is vital, all the more so that the fees are proposed to be collected by the municipalities, by the social institutions, and the municipalities will be away from the problems of these people and will not be aware of the reasons for the non-payment? Don't you have any worries that there is no clear mechanism for a person deprived of the service because of nonpayment, after arranging financial relations with the municipality, to be able to resume the possibility of using it? I will also mention the desire for a qualitative new definition of the concept of a social service. And they're far from the truth here. It is at least that it is incomplete and inaccurately formulated and that it does not correspond to the Rules implementing the Social Assistance Act, which we do not change with the proposed bill. Finally, the proposed changes related to improving the accessibility of social services, the application of an individual approach and guaranteeing consumer rights. It seems to me that there is no mechanism for respect for the will and desire of the persons, because with the text of the proposed para. 3 to art. 16 Administrative period for accommodation in a specialized institution for children and adults shall be introduced. I hope between first and second reading these texts will drop out, or will undergo serious changes, because in children, the introduction of such a period is contrary to measures of protection of the child and the accommodation by the court, which are competent to the Child Protection Act. There is no correspondence between the two laws, and in the case of adults with permanent disabilities and persons placed under an obstacle, it is not clear what will result from this measure and does not guarantee protection against abuse. And the last thing I will say is that despite the desire to implement the recommendations of the European Court of Justice in the two cases against Bulgaria for accommodation in specialized institutions and the interpretation that this is treated as imprisonment - these are the two cases of Stanev against Bulgaria in 2012 and Stankov against Bulgaria in 2015, this with the proposed texts cannot happen. A complex of measures is needed to resolve the case, not to introduce this administrative period. So much at first reading, more at second. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]] PRESENT CECCA TSACHEVA: Replies to Mr. Gokov? Mrs. Mariana Dimitrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u166	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Gokov! You have shared these concerns because the effectiveness of the social system has not been discussed yet in the Commission. And then it was clear to you that the bill does not offer a comprehensive reform in the field of social services, but only solves the most ill problems that do not tolerate delay, as a new Social Services Act is currently being drawn up, which will have a whole new spirit and philosophy for social services and will compensate for all the problems and missing that are present. You then received this reply, said you were taking measures for expert, professional and that you would work towards your group supporting the Bill, although there are some gaps and they could be overcome between first and second readings. So I am counting on you to still keep your expert face more than your political face and be consistent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u167	Second line? A hole, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u168	Madam President, honourable Members! Yes, then I received an answer, only I did not get the answer why only in 2017. And about this...................... and political, the expert is the result of the political. When we have no political vision to solve social problems, experts can only talk. And they're talking. And they're creating things like this bill. I would agree that it should be supported because you believe that it solves some problems in social assistance and concrete ones. They are recorded even in the reasons of the applicant for not paying fees, for court cases in institutions. However, I, reading carefully again the Bill and the opinions that came a little later by the Commission, see that these texts do not solve these problems. And I think it's not that complicated, because there has to be some political will to solve social problems, a political vision of the path to social assistance, which will be put on expertly in law. And it doesn't take a year a half to work on a law to make it a fact. If any of you can say as a member of the government, or as a minister, or as a deputy minister, which we have not let into the Chamber, why only in mid-2017 will this law enter, I do not know. Until then, we will probably have to make tens of thousands more of these amendments proposed by experts who are trying to patch up some gaps and some things that are seen as being broken into by the Social Assistance Act. Only by making these patches, we violate other principles. Here, I say specifically about the introduction of this administrative period for accommodation that it does not solve the problems of what Bulgaria is condemned for these two cases in Strasbourg. And I don't know what we're doing if we keep going in that direction. We need a complete synchronization of all legislation, of the whole package of social assistance laws, to put it on the same basis. We are now amending the Social Assistance Act, it is contrary to the Rules for Implementation of the Social Assistance Act. And then we'll have to change it. It's against the Child Protection Act. Why didn't the experts see these things and propose simultaneous synchronization or amendments to both laws? That's my answer to the question. Perhaps it should be supported at first reading, because these amendments are needed, only how long we will be doing so and these things I do not know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u169	Do other MPs wish to take part in the debate? I can't see. The debate is closed. On the basis of art. 69 of the Rules of Procedure lay down the time for the first vote on this Bill for tomorrow, November 6 at the beginning of the plenary session after 9.00. Moving on to next point: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF THE OWN STATE. Reports have been submitted by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. The report by the Committee on Legal Affairs will be presented by Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u170	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Floor Property Management Act, No 502-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 July 2015. At its meeting held on 15 July 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Floor Property Management, No 502-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 July 2015. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Desislava Yordanova, adviser to the political cabinet of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Ms. Gergana Blagieva, Director of Housing Policy Directorate, Mrs. Veselina Terziyska, Director of Legal Department. The bill was presented by Mrs. Desislava Yordanova. The bill provides for a number of amendments aimed at more precise regulation of the rights and obligations of floor property. It proposes the introduction of additional obligations for owners, with a view to maintaining the building in technical condition, according to the requirements of the Construction Act on the territory, with regard to the safe operation of all facilities and installations and prohibits all activities which violate the integrity and architectural appearance, wearability, the sustainability of the construction, fire safety or the safe use of the building. The amendments provide for the establishment of a new power of the General Assembly to adopt a decision to award a technical passport to the building, the introduction of a 6-month period within which a newly established floor property is to elect a management board (Manager), as well as the creation of an opportunity for the powers of the Management Board (Manager) of the floor ownership and of the owner's association, or part of those powers, to be entrusted to legal persons for a period of two years. In the event of a change of ownership of a private establishment, the membership of the association will be able to be transferred to the new owner, and for the obligations to the association which became required before the change of ownership, the old owner is responsible. In addition, the possibility of correspondence by e-mail, where available, and of receiving messages via an address in the country, may be introduced and this address may be different from the current or permanent address. Associations operating only under art. 25, para. 1 of the Law or not operating is exempt from the application of the Statistics Act. New administrative criminal provisions providing for sanctions for the Chairman of the Management Board (the Governor) to the mayor of the municipality or the region in case of failure to comply with the obligations related to the requirement to carry out urgent repairs are also introduced in the Bill. In the course of the discussion the people representative Yavor Notev asked whether the bill regulates the welded positions regarding the repairs of the common parts and the facades of the buildings. Mrs. Yordanova replied that the envisaged amendments aim to ban partial renovations in the future. Ms. Alexandrova raised a question given the obligation of newly established floor property to register within a certain period of time whether the existing ones have an obligation to register. Mrs. Yordanova pointed out that there is a rule in the Law governing compulsory registration. The proposed bill introduces a period within which newly created ones should be registered. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the House, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Floor Property Management, No 502-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 July 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-05.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Colleagues, there is also a report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. I suggest we proceed with this bill tomorrow. In the remaining less than three minutes, I will propose to your attention a parliamentary control message on November 6, 2015, 11:00 p.m., Friday. 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva will answer one question from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov. 2. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer two questions from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. 3. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer three questions from MPs Miho Mihov, Yavor Haytov and Rumen Hristov. 4. The Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov will answer four questions from the MPs Miho Mihov, Stanislav Stanilov, two questions, Dimitar Delchev and one question from the MP Slavi Binev. 5. The Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer a question from the MP Ivan Slavov Ivanov. 6. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer two questions from the MPs Ivan Slavov Ivanov and Stanislav Stanilov. 7. The Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova will answer five questions from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov, Slavi Binev 8. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer two questions from the MPs Krasimir Yankov and Slavi Binev. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure adjourned replies by seven days have requested: - Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the MPs Mihail Mikov and Ivan Ibrishimov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Manol Genov and two questions with written answer from the MPs Petar Slavov and Petar Ivanov Petrov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on three questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova Due to the absence of MPs for respectable reasons, the answers to a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov are postponed. Due to illness the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev and the Minister of Culture Vecdi Rashidov will not participate in the meeting of parliamentary control. In the absence of the country's parliamentary control meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Labour and Social Policy Minister Ivaylo Kalfin, Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov and Economy Minister Bozidar Lukarski will not participate. I'm adjourning the plenary session. Tomorrow's regular meeting, starting time 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
