ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u1	There is a quorum, I am opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear Members of Parliament, today is the first plenary Wednesday in February, which is why the programme is proposed under the special rules of our Rules. In the beginning are included the proposals from the parliamentary groups, which are not subject to voting under art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms Group has proposed as point one, and with this will start our legislative work today the first vote of the Bill for Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Civil Registration will begin. Importers are Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. From the parliamentary groups of the Reformation Bloc, Patriotic front and the Bulgarian Center of Integration there are no proposals received under the order of art. 50, para. 8. There is a proposal from the parliamentary group of the party "Attack" and as a second point we will discuss the first vote on the bill amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. Importers are Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. There are no proposals from the ABB and GERB groups. There is a proposal from the group of BSP left Bulgaria, also on the first vote of the Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. Importers are Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. On 14 November 2014, the European Parliament and the Council adopted Decisions (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] and (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee The other points included in the Programme Project are as follows: Draft Decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure for hearing and election of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, Head of the Management of the Bank's supervision. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the importer. First vote on the Preschool and School Education Bill. Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs on 21 November 2014, and the People's Education Bill with importers Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs on 15 December 2014. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. On Friday, we began the hearing of the reports on the two bills. The first vote of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Commercial Register Act is next. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Draft Law on the ratification of an Air Transport Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, signed in Brussels on 17 December 2009. The Importer is the Council of Ministers. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 12 January 2015. There is a report from the Transport and Communications Commission. Parliamentary control in the order of art. 104 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, scheduled for today, the first Wednesday of the month, with the starting time of 12.00. It will be attended by the Prime Minister Mr. Borisov and the four Deputy Prime Ministers. The usual Friday control under art. 91-103 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly is for 11.00 on Friday. Voting mode. [[National Representative Valeri Zablyanov wants the floor.]] Mr. Zablyanov, I will now report your proposals under para. 3. Abort the vote! Vote 172 MPs: 152, against 5, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. There have been several proposals in the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. First at the time Mr. Valeri Zablyanov proposed that a draft decision on the need to review the policy of sanctions of the European Union in relation to the conflict in Ukraine, No 454-02-63 of 17 December 2014, with importers Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, should be included in the weekly programme for this week. You have the floor to defend your proposal, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u2	Dear President, honourable Members, the Bulgarian Socialist Party and its parliamentary group are proposing a discussion in the Bulgarian Parliament on a draft decision to review sanctions introduced unilaterally by the countries and bodies of the European Union against the Russian Federation, the trade, economic and political consequences of which are increasingly weighing on the societies in Europe, including the Bulgarian ones. Last week, our parliamentary group submitted this proposal, motivating it with the need for such a debate to take place in the Bulgarian Parliament before the Council of Ministers meeting. The majority rejected the need for this debate, but it is held in Bulgarian society, it is conducted throughout Europe and is felt at the peaks of European politics. The more the Parliament and the National Assembly is silent, and all of us here, who are broadcast by this society, the more ambiguity grows in society. The refusal to discuss this issue, which directly affects Bulgaria, the desire to hide until the vortex passes us, the hiding behind the common European position, which is not clear in whose favour it is, will not help us as a society and state in this situation. Today, we propose that such a discussion be held before the European Council meeting, because the voice of the peoples who are directly affected by the conflict should take precedence over the voices of the peoples who are discussing and discussing the measures in the conflict away from it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u3	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. I put to the vote the proposal on behalf of the Parliamentary Group BSP left Bulgaria to include this draft decision on our agenda. They voted 165 MPs: 58, against 46, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u4	Madam President, my colleagues in the order behind me have failed to vote and signal by hand, including. I propose a re-voting of the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u5	Revoting, coworkers. Have you all been able to vote, Mr. Zablyanov? Vote 168 MPs: 57 against 59, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. The second proposal at the time is from Mrs. Cornelia Ninova from the group of BSP Levia Bulgaria, which proposes to include a bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Protection of Competition with VH. No 454-01-36 of 6 November 2014 and importers Mr. Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. We're listening, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! On behalf of BSP Left Bulgaria, I propose that the Law on Protection of Competition, more popularly known as the Law on Trade Chains, should be entered on the agenda. Colleagues, this law has a long history. We have seen it in three different members of the National Assembly. In the last parliament, with reasonable arguments from all sides, we accepted it in two readings, but it was returned by the President with veto and due to the dissolution of the National Assembly, we failed to discuss the veto. The purpose of this law is to protect the producers of Bulgarian goods. I am sure that each of you has witnessed talks from these producers about how the retail chains abuse from a position of strength and the dominant position of the market and place in front of our producers difficult or inexhaustible conditions when signing the contract, which conditions have led to the bankruptcy of many Bulgarian companies - producers of Bulgarian goods, especially food, freeing people from work and so on difficulties in Bulgarian production. Our opponents have always had two arguments against this law. The first one of the chains: we do not do as you accuse us, we do not force Bulgarian producers to sign such contracts. The second argument: if you pass this law, we will raise the prices of goods, which will affect the general public. The new after all the arguments we have heard about three mandates in parliament happened last week in the Economic Commission. The trade chains themselves rejected, disproved these two arguments, saying the following: "Yes, what you claim are unfair commercial practices, but as a result of the previous discussion we no longer apply them. That is, the first argument we did not do this to ourselves. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The second one, after no longer doing so, the prices of the goods did not rise, remained the same. So that's not important either. Therefore, colleagues, in order not to be tempted to do so again, let us put in law the rules of relationships. I assure you, our proposals correspond to market logic and to the protection of Bulgarian. Let every Bulgarian MP think before voting under this law! Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP LB]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u7	We are voting on the proposal for inclusion on the agenda of this bill. Vote 157 MPs: 70 against 28, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. To re-vote Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u8	Colleagues, we are looking for five votes of true Bulgarians who want to protect Bulgarian producers, Bulgarian economy and find jobs for Bulgarian citizens! Five votes isn't enough to get this law on the agenda! Consider with your national feeling in defence of the Bulgarian. Please re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u9	Revoting, coworkers. Mr. Dobrev, do not prevent Mr. Stoinev from exercising his right to vote! Did everyone get a vote? Vote 172 MPs: 74 against 28, abstention 70. [[Voices: "Eee!" by BSP LB.]] The offer is not accepted. And the final offer by the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure is Mr. Volen Siderov, who proposes inclusion in the weekly program of the Project for a decision to award within one month the government of the Republic of Bulgaria to carry out all necessary actions to withdraw the licenses of the electricity distribution companies CEZ, EVN, ENERGO-PRO, termination of the privatisation contracts with them and return their property to the assets of the state. We're listening, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u10	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I offer to your attention a draft decision with which the National Assembly can honor and dignity protect the interests of the citizens, all Bulgarians, not of one party or another, but of absolutely all Bulgarians who are consumers and who have been victims of colonial slavery of these three foreign companies for more than 10 years. I don't know about you, but I personally have been fighting this battle since 2003. Since then, when the so-called privatization of energy, in fact the donation of our transmission network has been given to three large foreign companies, two of which are state-owned, and the perverse mind of the power managers back then called this privatization. Those companies over the years have done everything that a power company shouldn't do, increased the price of electricity, worsened the service, constantly committed violations, hid profits, accounting exercises. And for all of this, there's such a fat audit report. [[shows with hand]] which I in a previous parliament put here at the bank in front of the Prime Minister. By chance he was named again Boyko Borisov. That was over three years ago. Since then, Mr. Borisov should have read this report and should already be aware as Prime Minister of his second cabinet that these companies are committing terrible violations. They are siphoning profits, robbing Bulgaria and should no longer act on our territory. This is what they did in Hungary, in Albania, even drove one of these companies away, but we continue to tolerate their insolence. A few days ago, the Prime Minister himself, I read somewhere that he was outraged by the "Energo-Pro" because their software raised the accounts for Varnans again in Varna. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Instead of resenting it, let's vote on what we're now offering. We take their license, we terminate the privatisation contracts, we say goodbye to them and their property returns to our Bulgarian state! This is the only solution with these electricity bills and with this harassment of the Bulgarians. So I call on you to vote for the House, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u11	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. Voting mode. They voted 165 MPs: 48, against 57, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u12	I propose a re-voting of our proposal, as I repeat, it is for the benefit of all Bulgarians. Abstinence is not appropriate here, ladies and gentlemen of the House. I don't know what you're going to tell your constituents when they ask you why the electricity bills are increasing, and how can this be corrected? What do you say? I was abstentioned when they proposed in plenary a good idea to expel these pillaging companies. "Is that what you're going to explain to the people?! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I'm giving you a chance to correct your abstinence and vote for you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u13	Re-vote, please. Vote 157 MPs: 43, against 68, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. Honourable Members, the Secretariat informed me that when presenting the Project for Programme for this week I have missed and have not read, respectively it has not been voted, point 6 (a) of the Second Voting of the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Agricultural Support Act. It will be after the pre-school and school education bills and the People's Education Act, point five, and then the first vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act. In your submitted proposals for the Programme Project you see that it is included and is discussed accordingly at the Conference of Presidents. I put to the vote as item six in the weekly programme a second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act. Vote 172 MPs: 170, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, by Decision No 1428-NS, of 28 January 2015 of the Central Election Commission, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of the National Representative Rositsa Yordanova Yanakieva - Kostadinova, elected by the Fourteenth Election Region of Pernishki, erected by the list of the Coalition ABC. On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code - Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announcing as elected MP in the Fourteenth Election Region of Pernishki, Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov, EGN (...), from the list of Coalition ABC - Alternative for Bulgarian Revival, in the Forty-third National Assembly. Quaestors, invite Mr. Stamenov to the Chamber for an oath. Mr. Nikiforov, come to the stand and repeat after me. [[All MPs become.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u14	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u15	Congratulations! Before we go to the business section, a few messages will be sent, and then there will be a statement from a group. Bills and draft decisions entered into force from 28 January to 3 February 2015: It's a tobacco and tobacco bill. Importers shutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. - A bill on energy efficiency. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Energy is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Commission for Monitoring the Activity of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. - Project for a decision to prevent NATO military formations from being deployed on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers scuse Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. It will be viewed by the Foreign Policy Committee and the Defence Committee. - Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation and Repressed Persons. Importers shutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Labour and Social and Demographic Policy. Proposal for the election of a sub-government of the Bulgarian National Bank, head of the management of the Bank's supervision. Bulgarian National Bank. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Annual Activity Report of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for 2014. Importer "The Commission for the Protection of Personal Data." He'll be watching the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Annual Programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process It is allocated to all Standing Committees in the National Assembly. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Tutuna and Tobacco Products. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. A bill to supplement the State Property Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Medical Products Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. He'll be watching the Health Committee. Draft amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It will be viewed by the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications as a leader. Supporting the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Defence is the lead. Distributed to: the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Health Insurance. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Leading is the Health Commission. The Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules for hearing and election of a sub-government of the Bulgarian National Bank, Head of the Management of the Bank supervision. Importer Menda Stoyanova. A bill to supplement the Law on Political Parties. Importer "Велизар Еnchev." Distributed to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A few messages. Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, Chairman of the Committee on Budget and Finance, informed me by letter of 30 January 2015 that at her regular meeting held on 29 January 2015, the Committee on Budget and Finance in implementation of art. 24, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has chosen from its composition a Standing subcommittee on Public Sector Accountability. The subcommittee consists of 9 members of the National Assembly and is in the following composition: Chairman On 30 January 2015, the National Statistical Institute received information about a general index of producer prices in industry and indexes at domestic market producer prices for December 2014. The material is in the Library of the National Assembly, which wants from the MPs, can be acquainted with it. On 3 February 2015, the updated Annual Audit Programme of the Court of Auditors for 2015 was submitted by the Court of Auditors to the National Assembly.It was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and is available to the Members of the National Assembly in the Library. Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of "Attack" "Mr. Volen Siderov."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party, I have the high honour to present to you our vision of the current situation in the world and, of course, in our country. Last week I had the opportunity to present to you our legitimate concerns that we are in a state of war. I will not tire of repeating it and urging your attention and conscience so that here in this Chamber we can make decisions that meet the interests of the people, as we pledge. We just heard that oath again. I don't know why it's due after it's been broken all the time. Here, in the first vote, instead of the interests of the people, you defended the interests of the monopolies, I mean the ruling coalition. It's about something scarier than monopoly colonialism, it's about war. This is where the minister of war was. We asked him questions. He still admitted that we have mobilization at the moment. He called it otherwise, but admitted to handing out subpoenas, summonings, calling people and preparing to participate in military activities, and then appeared on TV, various media, and began to explain that the stories that were heard were not true. That is, we are not at war, we are not preparing for war, there is no military equipment going through Bulgaria..................... something that we have established, documented, shown pictures. And all of that, yes, it is, but it doesn't mean we're preparing for war. I don't know why you're holding this man. I'm addressing the ruling coalition. We understand that Mr. Borisov will come to lunch, I will repeat it again, and his political supporters, colleagues: Kostov, Kuneva, Kasim Dal, Erdogan, Simeonov, Karakachanov and Parvanov to this ruling coalition. At one time you were arguing about the Deputy Minister and there was a long drama, and you don't see how much damage the military minister himself is doing to you. This guy is out of place, he needs to be replaced because he's making a very bad impression. He denies the obvious, which is a sign of weakness, there is no other way to call it, he denies obvious things that there is a mobilization in Bulgaria that Bulgaria is preparing to participate in military action against Russia in the territory of Ukraine and the fact that in Ukraine itself our compatriots are mobilizing. They are wondering what to do, how to run, where to hide, do not want to participate in a fratricidal war. I mean our several hundred thousand countrymen in Ukraine. In this regard, as a awake political force, we have introduced amendments to the Law on Bulgarians living outside the borders of Bulgaria today, I hope, Madam President, that you will give our proposals a move to the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, so that we can enable our compatriots in Ukraine, if they want to become Bulgarian citizens, to do so in a very light procedure. Of course, not only for those living in Ukraine, but also for all other Bulgarians who want citizenship. So far, the Bulgarian state has basically been messing with them, stalling them, asking them for bribes and in any way refusing them. In this way we will show that we have an attitude, firstly, to our countrymen abroad, that we think of them as giving them a hand and we want to save them from a frat-murder war in which Kiev's junta, the Nazi regime there, unfortunately, supported by several Bulgarian governments, wants to bring them in to go, to kill their brothers in faith, blood and ethnicity. All of this is in the hands of the majority in your hands, if you decide to accept this offer, then the Bulgarians from Ukraine will be able to become citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria in a way that is easier. In this way we will also show attitude towards this war, we will say clearly as MPs that we do not want Bulgaria in any way to be involved in war. I think we must do this so that we can, with honor and dignity, conclude our mandate as MPs. Anyone who does not agree with this proposal will show that he wants to send Bulgarians to die for a cause the cause of the United States, the cause of Maidan and thus will not protect national dignity. So, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, I give you the opportunity to defend really according to the oath the Bulgarian interest. The fact that some of you look with ridicule, irony or any other such emotions of my proposals does not disturb me, but it saddens me because life passes, the years pass and the Bulgarian is less confident that those who choose and send to the meeting room of the National Assembly can help him with something. That's not good, that's a sad fact, and if we can distract him, we'll do something good. Therefore, as a summary of my today's speech at the beginning of the plenary week, I appeal to you with a call to awaken the remnants of conscience within you and when a public people are offered something useful here, from this tribune, to vote on it, no matter what your party is called. Our common party is Bulgaria, right? Whoever forgets this usually ends badly their political career. Thank you very much for your attention and I wish you a successful, fruitful and highly creative plenary week. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u17	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. We're moving to point one for today: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CIVIL REGISTERATION. Importers Mr. Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. There is a report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Who will present the report? Here you go, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u18	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 454-01-28, submitted by Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs At its meeting the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act submitted by Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. This meeting was held on 11 December 2014. We discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Mr. Chetin Kazak. The Bill proposes that copies and certificates from civil status acts should be banned from requiring personal data which were found in the system of the Single Civil Registration and Administrative Service System of the Population (ESGRAON) but have been deleted. There is also an obligation for the Directorate General for Civic Registration and Administrative Service of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to carry out changes in the data contained in the ECGRAION relating to deletion, respectively a reimbursement of names of a particular category of citizens. The Commission provides opinions from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Ministry of Interior, which disagree with the proposed Draft. It is noted that the current law does not require citizens to provide personal data when issuing certificates and copies on the basis of the registers of civil status acts. In essence, it is a procedure for the provision of administrative services, the proceedings under which they are regulated in the APC, which expressly provides that information or documents to be collected by the administrative authorities are not to be collected. In this regard, the provision proposed in § 1 of the Bill is unnecessary. The proposed hypotheses for official deletion or reimbursement of names are unacceptable and the way in which these obligations have been applied to the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers is not feasible. The right of name, respectively the related right to change it, is of the category of personal subjective non-material rights. The law in force has consistently passed the principle of voluntary and freely expressed will of the persons, and recovery or change is possible if citizens so wish. In this sense is also the provision of art. 19a of the Civil Registration Act. The law does not limit persons in time, and the issues of changing the names of the deceased are also settled in proposals for annulment § 1a. During the discussion, the MPs who spoke shared some of the reasons of the importers, in which they pointed out the reasons for the proposed change, but pointed out that there are different hypotheses among them and the possible official deletion and recovery of names, would also affect individuals who do not want such change and would be contrary to the principles of the law. In the event of official deletion and recovery, there would also be other consequences which cannot be formally reflected in documents of a different nature of the persons concerned, on the basis of which they or their heirs draw certain rights, which would create undue difficulties for them. DG GRAO is unable to carry out official deletion and reimbursement, as the change of names has been entered in the registers of civil status acts, which are kept and maintained by employees in municipal administrations, and the entries in them can only be made by civil status officials in municipalities and mayors appointed by the mayors of municipalities. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote held, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 3 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u19	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. The bill is also assigned to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. There's no report from her. On behalf of the importers, Mr. Mestan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u20	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Very strange is the concept apparatus of the President of the Committee on Regional Policy. An outside observer who does not know the latest Bulgarian history and the tragedy of a revival process will not understand what this is about. Mr. Zelenogorski, why are you running away from simple truths? In this opinion of the Regional Commission of Parliament of a Member of the European Union, a sentence had to be heard first: I would like to ask: how will the principle of voluntary and own desire be applied to those Bulgarian citizens who died during the revival process? How will the deceased express their own desire? How do you apply from the afterlife, Mr. Zelenogorski? This is the big problem with the Law. We propose this Law, led by the understanding that the attitude towards the Bill is, firstly, a criterion for the democracy of each of the parties in the Forty-third National Assembly, a criterion for the democratic maturity of each of the 240 MPs in the Forty-third National Assembly. Secondly, the attitude towards this Bill is a matter of value positioning the parties................................................................................................... Two approaches are possible. First, support for the Bill, which is perfectly natural, and formation of a common value field at least between the system parties in the Forty-third National Assembly. Secondly, the second approach, once again, to unite against the proposal of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and to leave the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in isolation. You really like that word. Our call is for the first approach. It will be in line with the responsible thesis of the DPS that the crime of rebirth can not be blamed for the entire Bulgarian people. The people are not responsible for this serious crime. Guilty is one regime, and because here you represent the Bulgarian people, with the act of support of the DPS Bill you will say exactly this: the crime of revival is past, not present and the blame for this is only for the communist regime, not our voters. If you choose the approach to vote against the Bill, as you have done in the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, I will have to tell you a few things. First of all, that, even today, after the vote, we will find ourselves in a seven-to-one, seven-to-one ratio against the DPS or 202 MPs against 38 MPs from the DPS, this does not mean that the law, truth, is on the side of these remaining seven parties and 202 MPs! In isolation will be no DPS, ladies and gentlemen! In isolation will be the value, the integrity, that is, you will fall into heavy value isolation. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I owe an answer to a question that I already hear: why does the Movement for Rights and Freedoms put this question now? Why didn't you do it when you were in power? I'll give you an answer. We are not putting this question now for the first time. We've put it in place, and when we've been in power, and the sad answer is that we haven't met understanding from our coalition partners either. Yeah, I admit it. But you have the claim that you are the pro-European majority. Wrap it up with your vote, because...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u21	I'm gonna cry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u22	Here are these voices from the place: "We will cry!" are a manifestation of that political cynicism, ladies and gentlemen, which we have also witnessed after the commemorating rally on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the revival process in Mogilyane, Nanovitsa, Momchilgrad, Raven, Mlechino. Then every single one of you accused the chairman of the DPS of using Christian holidays to gather people to rallies. This is political cynicism because not the victims of the revival process, not the assimilated Bulgarian citizens chose the bright Christian celebrations, but the power, then the power chose the Nativity of Christ as the beginning of the dark revival process. Turkyan the 17-month-old baby was killed at Christmas. And I am asking here today: whose degenerate totalitarian consciousness has sought and the etymological connection between the Nativity.. rebirth............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Yes, it is not the choice of either Mestan or the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. [[GERB lines.]] We appreciate the value of the name because it was taken away from us and therefore all our commemorative rallies began with greetings to Christians on the occasion of the Nativity of Christ, and on December 27 in Momchilgrad the first sentence of the address of the President was a greeting to all young people named Stefan because of Saint Stephen's day. That's the height of the DPS!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u23	And the kiss?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u24	However, we expect you to also consider whether you can with cynicism reject this bill. We don't go back to seek revenge. We are not asking a question from the past today because there are thousands of Bulgarian citizens with unrestored names. This ulcer of the rebirth process is still alive today. Therefore, the Bill is not a return to the past, but an attempt to heal the wounds of the revival process, but with today's date! Maybe we don't need any more arguments. I'll only remind you of one. On February 1st, it was 30 years since the tragic act of self-inflammation of the poet Mehmed Karaheuseinov. He set himself on fire in protest against the criminal assault of the so-called rebirth process. [[(Noise and shout from GERB:]] I'm graduating. This act was not an expression of ordinary weakness, nor of cowardice. This was an attack on the fire as a tragic purification of a reviled lyrical soul, left alone without the signs of its existence. I would like to remind you that five years later, after severe suffering from his wounds, the poet died with the name Methodius Asenov Karahanov. [[Noise and shout from GERB: The Chairman shall signal that time is running out.]] I am asking today: How will he restore a name for which he set himself on fire 30 years ago? How will his soul calm down?! How?! The answer is in your voice on this bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u25	The discussion is open. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to take part in this matter to give a sign. Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u26	Madam President, honourable Members! This bill right now is obviously provocative! What does the DPS want? The Bulgarian Turks against the Bulgarian state? The Bulgarian state is supposed to be referring to 30 years ago, and essentially now ethnic tensions are igniting, anti-Bulgarian sentiment is increasing among more than one million Bulgarian citizens. Who needs this?! Let's turn to the facts. This bill is factually non-existent. First, it refers only to the revival process probably since 1984. Mass renamings, however, were also in other years. They are several decades back to the Liberation of Bulgaria. Why is it only required about the 1984 names?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u27	That's not true, you didn't read the Bill!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u28	Lutvi Mestan and DPS have no memory of previous renamings, civil reasons for their cultural and civil then logic. I don't think it's right for history to be torn apart at comfortable and uncomfortable periods according to someone's political ambition. Secondly, it is argued that in the revival process of 1984 all renamed were forced and the renaming was done only by violence against the will of the renamed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u29	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u30	This is claimed on behalf of the deceased until 2001, without anyone asking them whether it was true or not.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u31	Did you ask them?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u32	There is a political abuse of a dramatic process here. The facts show that there was a small part of the renamed in 1984 that did it voluntarily, without resistance, willingly. These are Muslims and Bulgarian Turks who have seen in the adoption of Bulgarian-European names a way to provide for themselves and then for their children a more comprehensive integration in Bulgarian society. They wanted to be perceived by others as part of the Bulgarian nation. Enough with the hysterics about the 1984 renaming! No more one-sidedness and hiding half the truth! Enough cover-up of Turkish provocations, including bloody attacks. [[Applause from the "Attacka", Patriotic Front and BSP LB]] who then forced the state to resort to such a measure of self-preservation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u33	What do you know about this time? How old are you?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u34	I agree that then the renaming was done in a rather stupid way. In the BCP itself, there were many opponents not to do it or not to do it that way. What's done is done. People were given an opportunity to regain their old name again, but not everyone did it in 2001. Those who died until 2001 simply did not have the opportunity to say whether they felt victims from 1984 or then used the campaign to adopt Bulgarian and European names and to feel more Bulgarians in their homeland. Where would a party speak for everyone now? How could she give out such historical sentences? Where-where will this break of all Muslims and Bulgarian Turks in Bulgaria against the Bulgarians continue? This law, hidden behind an alleged humane concern, is doing all this. We must say emphatically! We don't need to pour oil into the fire, Mr. Mestan, let's show our instincts for national self-preservation. I will vote against it and call on all MPs in this House to vote against it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB, "Attack" and "PF."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u35	Any lines to Mr. Mirchev? There's no one for a line. Mr. Mestan wants a personal explanation. His name started Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u36	You mentioned me twice.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u37	I didn't count it. That's enough for once.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u38	Tell me about the Eagle Bridge.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u39	That's why I'm taking the floor. Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! My personal explanation is precisely on the occasion of the Eagle Bridge, General. I stand with my face in front of all of you and in front of all Bulgarian citizens: yes, the embrace of the Orlov Bridge was an expression, first of all, of recognition of Mr. Stanishev's valor to offer an excuse for the revival process in front of 50 thousand. Souls.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u40	There were fewer of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u41	Secondly, this was an expression of our strong assessment that the revival process is a crime of the regime, not of the Bulgarian people and therefore can not blame all Bulgarian citizens, even less of the next generations. Today, however, I ask: what value does an apology have? What is the value of your declaration of condemnation of the revival process, when you vote today, you express a position against the natural right of the names of the deceased, in order to reassure their memory, to be restored in administrative order? Today, from the party that apologized, we heard no excuse for the revival process, not an expression of an experienced catharsis. Before me, there was a real apologist at the rebirth process. [[Applause from DPS.]] Now that's the sad truth. So without emotion, once again, I call on the parties, the system parties, including BSP, I would very much like this not to be the position of the entire party. The Bulgarian Socialist Party, to support the DPS bill, because there is nothing more natural than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u42	Do other MPs wish to speak? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u43	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u44	There's no personal explanation for a personal explanation. An answer shall be given on the occasion of a name mentioned. That way, we'll go all the way with a personal explanation of a personal explanation. Make a statement, you can take the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, for the next time today, we are witnessing a sordid hypocrisy. You may have forgotten that it was on top of the great Christian holidays, namely the Nativity of Christ, that this leader of the anti-constitutional and anti-Bulgarian party DPS took the liberty to make a fool of the Bulgarian people. Today, this same leader is trying to recreate history. He is trying to blame the Bulgarian people. [[DPS lines.]] Dear colleagues, would you ask these gentlemen here, against me, how many of them are former members of the Bulgarian Communist Party? How many of them have personally participated in this infernal plan of State Security, called the Renaissance Process? In fact, what is the truth, honourable Members? The truth is that hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian Muslims in the Rhodopes never wanted to wear Muslim names. [[Radio and lines from DPS.]] Moreover, those who have Christian names are subjected to extreme garbling. Especially when such a person dies, he cannot even be buried, notice, because there some religious gentleman, of course, with the influence of the DPS, has forbidden such people to be buried. I grew up in this area. I have a friend from school who changed his name from Mustafa to Bisser. This classmate of mine that we live with on a fence for not wanting to get that name back, under the pressure of the DPS, was fired from the forestry where he worked. His children were put on extraordinary pressure. Since the DPS failed to break these people's will, today they suggest that we become accomplices to their infernal work and administratively impose return of names. However, honourable Members, the words and the covenant of the great Bulgarian ruler Khan Kubrat are written on the parliament building: "The union makes the power." Today this party is once again playing and wants to divide the Bulgarian people into ethnic principles. Just three days ago, this party was at the heart of the registration of another ethnic party in Plovdiv, and notice the participants in this founding assembly are chosen solely by the Muslim name. What are these people after? The Law on Civil Registration is one of the oldest laws in Bulgaria. He is, among other things, accompanied by an extremely rich archive. If one of you bothers to read this archive, he will be impressed that many of the first names were Bulgarian, Christian names. Perhaps you have forgotten the great novel of the great Bulgarian writer..................................................................................................... [[Relations, calls and laughter in DPS.]] Perhaps you have forgotten how the Bulgarian people are forced to change their names? Yeah, we're not gonna let that happen today. We will not allow you to blame the Bulgarian people and administratively, in a forceful way, by introducing a law to build your arbitrariness, to restore names of people who do not wish to have these names. And we won't allow you to dig through the bones of those who are no longer alive. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u46	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Replies to the speech of the MP Mr. Bayraktarov? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? Mr. Grozdan Karadjov, come in. Mr. Simeonov, you're after him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u47	Oh, foolish agaa, why are you ashamed to call yourself an agent of former State Security? [[Applause on the right.]] Why are you ashamed to be called a member of the Bulgarian Communist Party? Why are you ashamed to identify yourself with these two structures that renamed the Bulgarian Turks? Why today are you seeking indulgence from all of us for all of these acts of yours? We here and not the heirs of the Bulgarians changed the names of the Bulgarian Turks! They were changed by the Bulgarian Communist Party and the agents of State Security who are among your ranks and with whom you kissed on the Eagle Bridge! [[Applause on the right.]] With them, get your kisses back, and with their agency and membership, deal with it! [[Noise and lines in the hall, applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u48	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Replies to Mr. Karadjov's statement? Here you go, Mr. Mestan. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, what we have heard means only one argument against the bill. Whenever you resort to this simple trick, you admit that you have no arguments, honourable colleague. And in order for your thesis to be stronger, you will also attribute membership to the compart. There's something we need to talk to you about. There's really something to talk about, but before that you owe a very simple answer. You are the principals, the judges of the communist regime and the State Security, who are you with today? Who? Who? Here, this is all your unprincipledness. That's all the misery in the position. It's nice to look at each other first and then judge. I don't ask anyone for indulgence. I want the consent of the system parties together to close the wounds of the Renaissance Process. And I repeat, if you have a problem with the administrative recovery of everyone's names, at least those who died during the Renaissance process, those who cannot apply from the afterlife, their names must be restored. There's nothing more natural than that. Don't change the subject. It's not gonna work. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u50	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. Second line? [[Replys from the right.]] You have the opportunity for a dot, Mr. Karadjov, so you can answer in the form of a dot. Second line of Mr. Karadjov's speech, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Karadjov, the statement of the gentleman from the Patriotic Front was understandable. It's part of a systematic, consistent policy that they've always practiced. I understand even the young gentleman's statement with his vicious debut and a glimmer from this tribune. This tribune should not get dirty, but I cannot understand a representative of the so-called Reformation Block.I cannot understand a representative of a party with the claims of pro-European development of Bulgaria, how is it involved in this event, as if we are on the eve of the distant 1984-1985? Did you know, Mr. Karadjov, that I was shot in front of me when they changed names in a violent way? I had nothing to do with Homeland Security. Are you going to blame me, too? What do I have to do with this trial at 16 years old? And how are you going to blame me and why are you talking to me about indulgences? How can you not be ashamed to talk like that?! [[Noise and lines, applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u52	Thank you, Mr. Kardzhaliev. Third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Karadjov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u53	I will be very clear: it is not important who we are currently in a coalition with. [[Noise and lines, laughing at the DPS.]] What's important is that we're not in a coalition. [[Radio to the right.]] We're not in a coalition, we're in an answer! Yeah, with him and his corporate clique, we'll never be in a coalition, at least until we pull him out of power. With regard to your psychological dilemma, you may not have been a member of the Communist Party at the age of 16, or have not cooperated with the former State Security services, but you are with them today and are cooperating with them. It is your choice to leave this Chamber and this National Assembly! [[Noise and lines, applause from the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u54	Colleagues, I call for us to go back to the subject of the questioning, we are discussing a specific bill. Let's stick to the proposed texts, philosophy and the spirit of the bill. To make a statement there is Mr. Velizar Enchev. After him "Metodi Andreev," after him Atanas Atanasov "according to the order of the requested... [[Heckling]] We are following some order from the different parliamentary groups. I saw Mr. Mihov. He'll be given the word.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u55	Madam President, honourable Members! At a time when radical Islam occurs when the Islamic State has carried out another beheading and ignition when the world is shaking with ethnic conflicts, the Bulgarian Parliament is at this very moment dealing with the burning of ethnic fire, not with the extinguishing of ethnic fire. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] I have a feeling by listening to them and looking from both sides that I am watching the Kosovo Parliament, or rather the Serbian Parliament 25 years ago, when nationalist Vojislav Seselj and Albanian nationalist Azem Vlasi stood against each other. Where were they 25 years ago? Serbia is not a single state, Kosovo is a separate state, a civil war in which 250 thousand people died. I believe Mr. Mestan's suggestion is not healing wounds, but putting salt in the wounds. Mr. Mestan, wounds are treated with a cure, not salt. Why do you decide right now to bring this bill into place at this very moment when you are in opposition?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u56	There is no parliament in which we have not proposed it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u57	Why didn't you do it when you were in power just a year ago? [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Even if you have reason to do so at this very moment, the selected moment is as much as possible, the most unfortunate. Look, fellow Members, a country, a nation is great, a nation can be appreciated in the best way not only when it values its history and worships it, but when it has the strength, the dignity to appreciate this story, and it critically appreciates it. The revival process was a mistake, but not an error imposed by the circumstances, which ended in a not particularly good, tragic way. Mr. Mestan, let's not forget the victims of pro-Turkish terrorism. Let us not forget these victims, as they are also Bulgarian citizens, as were Bulgarian citizens and those who were forced out of the Republic of Bulgaria. Many of them returned to Bulgarian soil, since this is their land, this is their people. We have no other country, no reserve state, if, of course, excluded, within the framework of the joke, the Republic of Macedonia. [[Laughter and excitement.]] I would like to say to you that I am proposing, and I am thinking of proposing it as a bill, something that the late Croatian president proposed in the Croatian Parliament in 22 years ago, and it was adopted, a Project for National Reconciliation. It is time to put a stop to the ethnic issue of Bulgarians on the one hand, Muslim Turks on the other! It is time to put an end to this insane, I would say, sometimes not particularly intelligent dispute communists and anti-communists, which we had on Friday during parliamentary control! It is time to learn from the great Spanish people who 40 years ago in the Valley of the Dead raised a cross in which they buried both the Republicans and the Frankish. Before this cross in the Dead Valley in Spain they worship both left and right-wing communists and anti-communists, Republicans and Frankists. If we don't put the past behind us, and, of course, before that, we make a critical assessment of this past, condemn the relapses of this past, we confidently say it, we move towards the Kosovo case, to the Kosovo example, which led to the collapse of a multiethnic state created unjustly. But a multiethnic state which, in the last years of its existence, had all the chances of becoming a full member of the European Union, I am talking about the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. In no way should we allow such a division to continue. I therefore implore you, Mr. Mestan, as a policy with exceptional experience, to withdraw this proposal in the name of national reconciliation, which one day in this House, and the sooner, the better, must prevail. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and BSP left Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u58	- What's the line? I won't. A personal explanation wants Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Enchev, you have raised the question of the hundreds of thousands of victims of the civil war in the former Allied Republic of Yugoslavia after the collapse. And did you know that according to analysts' forecast, including beyond the ocean, this conflict was expected to ignite right in Bulgaria because of the severe heritage of the revival process? However, Bulgaria turned out to be the only Balkan country - post-totalitarian, which made a bloodless transition to democracy. And do you know why this happened? Just because a party was created [[noise and lines]] which had the will to transform the pain of the revival process into the will of a common state of equal citizens. This is the historic role of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. That is why this bill aims not to divide, but to reconcile, only that we offer to reconcile with the poet Mehmed Karahyuseinov and not Metodi Asenov. This is the difference in our attitude towards this Bill. Reconciliation seeks the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Reconciliation by healing the wounds, not by closing your eyes for the ulcers of the revival process, which are the greatest risk to balanced ethnoreligious relations. And it is precisely because of the current challenges of terrorism that we are obliged today to part with the past through fair treatment of the victims of the past. No attempt to replace the position of the victim and the executioner will pass, for the truth will prevail, justice will prevail. Bulgaria is blessed to have exactly its Muslims as a minority. Bulgaria is blessed to have for a party that represents their interests, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u60	Mr. Kasabov, you're scheduled for a statement, but we're following some order of parliamentary groups. Mr. Bayraktarov is already speaking from your group. Now there is Mr. Metodi Andreyev from the group of GERB, after him is Atanas Atanasov from the Reformation Block.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u61	Madam President, honourable Members! I will give my personal opinion on the bill tabled by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. I am a man who has been in the politics of the country of democracy since the third day of Easter 1990. [[Noise and lines from BSP left Bulgaria.]] I will support this Bill because I believe that a phenomenon which has been condemned by all of us, namely the revival process, cannot continue to be used to do demagogy by the Party of DPS, known as the Corporation. I will support this Law not because Agent Paul offers it [[DRF lines]] Not because the NSA agents who created the DPS are offering it, but because I'm a Democrat and I believe that when one person is forced to take away his identity and name, the state is in debt. To these people, we need to be able to restore their identity without them spending more time on it. This is the apology of the Bulgarian people to the Bulgarian Turks, who are one of the most honest and honorable Bulgarian citizens, but not of their political oligarchy in the face of the DPS. [[Reply from the National Representative Lutvi Mestan.]] What does it mean to be Agent Pavel? What does it mean to be Agent Angelov, the so-called Ahmed Ismailov Ahmedov, known as Dogan? What does it mean twice in the history of the new democratic state to do corporate, criminal political-olligarchic communities? Remember that during the time of Berov the first attempt to create a group similar to the one that now exists was made successfully by the then leader Ahmed Dogan, known as Agent Angelov. Then he took over the country with the shell companies of Multigroup. And now his successor agent Paul is doing the same thing, and much more successfully with the planted companies of... Who? That's what we shouldn't forget! This vile political demagogy must be interrupted. We should no longer give the Movement for Rights and Freedoms the right to speak on behalf of the Bulgarian honest Turks because they encapsulated them, they restricted them to enter the Bulgarian community freely. Let's not forget that the "Dogan" model consists precisely of creating a feudal dependence on the so-called "local bullets" that are funded illegally by the black cases of the DPS. Let us not forget that it was precisely for the DPS that became an emblematic development, which became known as the development of the DPS, because the DPS agents created the DPS with the help of the Bulgarian Communist Party, but not to protect the Turkish population, but to channel its negative vote, to channel it into the strategically true ones for the DPS agents of the State Security in the DPS, a direction, namely in strategic cooperation with the successor of the Bulgarian Communist Party, namely BSP. I'll tell you something else. Those people who have been in Bulgaria's power for the longest time, the DPS, they were in power for the longest time, did they now think to do this? Much more Bulgarian Turks could have benefited from what they are currently offering 20 years ago. Many of them died. God rest their soul. Many of these Turks want nothing to do with State Security representatives in the DPS. [[Applause from GERB.]] I think it's sacramental for the DPS to propose this bill. In order to put ashes on this process to apologize to everyone jointly to what the Bulgarian Communist Party and the DPS agents, the State Security, who logically supported the State Security services at the time with their information about which Bulgarian citizens with Turkish identity spoke in Turkish and did not agree with the policies of the BCP, I believe that all Democrats in this House should support this Bill. Exactly so that Agent Paul and a company could not be considered as the sole defenders of the rights of the Bulgarian Turks. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u62	Here's your first line, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Andreev, I take the floor to thank you for your vote for the Bill. You have a clear position that you stand for two decades. That's your right. We may differ with you on the evaluation of the past, but it does you honor. You said something very important today to those who limit their concern for minorities with the attack on the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. You showed them the path, the field where they could compete with the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Because the megdan even in my own village, open to the voice of my relatives, is even open to you. Come on, let's compete. You will have the right to vote for you. However, I do not know those who will vote against this bill, with what reason will they turn to the vote of all Bulgarian citizens affected by the revival process and in the name of whom this bill has been tabled. I have only one appeal for the principles, Mr. Andreev, are not defended in this clear, firm, on the brink of aggression against the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, as well as by collaborators of State Security. It would have weighed much more heavily on your position if you hadn't been in a hug today with those who supposedly grumbled in your principled position. I'm sorry. It's not a principled position. You are involved in a common government that is in a hug with State Security. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u64	Second line, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Andreev, in one part of the statement you are right. What you said about the DPS is the exact truth and the very truth. This is an ethnopolitical mafia that plunders Bulgaria and holds part of the Bulgarian population on the basis of the feudal principle. But in the other part, you have to support such a bill, you are wrong. I'll tell you why. This bill has been tabled for the following reason. Over the last decade, tens of thousands of Bulgarian Muslims have been suing to get their Bulgarian names back. And this process with the pressure of the DPS on Bulgarian judges is stopped. However, tens of thousands of Bulgarian Muslims returned their Bulgarian names. The DPS aims with this Bill their feudals on the ground to rename them. That's the truth! Make a reference, ladies and gentlemen, to see in the Bulgarian courts how many applications whole families and Muslim Bulgarians and Muslim Turks have submitted to change their names and make them Bulgarian. How many rejections at first instance! And why do they keep doing cases to get their Bulgarian names back?! I call on everyone in this room....don't fall into the trap of the DPS! [[Reply of MP Stanislav Anastasov.]] Check it out, Mr. Anastasov. Check it out! You might want to change your name. That's your right, but you'll do it in a court of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u66	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Third line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Andreev, my line to you is not to trust the DPS, even when they promise gifts. Don't listen to what they promise you from this tribune. Read what they wrote in the Bill. You'll see some interesting things there. First you will see that they want the annulment of § 1a of the Act in force, which enables precisely those heirs of people repressed by the revival process to people with violently changed names, and who have died, their heirs to restore this thing. They want the annulment of this particular paragraph. They actually want a lot of other things that they didn't say here, but they convince us of quite different things. Look at what they offer, not what they explain, and then make your decision. I ask myself why now this Bill, why not in the previous National Assembly? Why, when they had a majority in the Triple Coalition, didn't they accept it?! I'm thinking about that DPS sign representative with both names in the triple coalition, who had one for the DPS corporation business, and there was one for government participation. I wonder if that's why this bill actually appears right now. By the way, what fellow Members of the Patriotic Front have said should also be borne in mind, because many people who, by court order, have changed their names to Christians, can now find themselves practically repressed and have returned names against their will. So read what the Bill says, and don't believe what they say. [[DPS lines: You read it!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u68	I hate that you're your father's son!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u69	A hole, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u70	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Mestan, I can't understand why you saw that I was in the arms of Homeland Security. I believe that what is seen by all Bulgarian citizens is that successively two leaders of the DPS were related to State Security. What's more, I suggest you read Ahmed Dogan's file. It's reserved for both his personal and his work. Read to see how perfidious Agent Angelov acted, how he brought about moods among the Bulgarian Turks. Unfortunately, your personal and work case has not been preserved, Mr. Mestan, but I have never been and I have not allowed myself to fall into the arms of State Security, as many members of your group have. And I can recall something in that direction. Do you remember in the previous Parliament when the Law of limitation was voted on, which you supported in the Commission, but then on several occasions you changed your decisions in this House?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u71	Don't lie!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u72	I can tell you a name, but I won't say it. A key member of yours, who is now a MP from the DPS, has voted, including that there is no statute of limitations on the crimes of the communist regime. He's your MP right now. He was involved in energy issues and worked at the time at the Kremikovtsi and is related to the transport business. I think it's pretty clear who he is. He voted against this man. He voted against no limitation on the crimes of communism. That's how far you've come. So don't put your guilt on other people's backs. You're just the State Security Party. That's your big problem. As far as the Law is concerned, I intend to say here once again, I am doing a duplicate of my colleagues from the Patriotic Front, I am referring to the following two possible cases. A man who died but had a forcibly changed name so that the state could return it to him automatically. And people who are alive and have changed their name, as it was, to be able to return free of charge without legal procedures to return their names, but only those to whom, during the rebirth process, their names were forcibly changed, not for others. The others are in the same order. This is the logic that I think should be supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u73	To make a statement there is Mr. Atanas Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot vote against this Bill because my years have already become heavy and from this position I can say that I have witnessed what happened to the Bulgarian Turks in the period 1985-1989, and as much as I have been able to, where I have been, I have supported these people after the changes. Back here, there's a witness from our area, he knows, he might say. But I can't vote for this Bill because, first of all, what you're proposing is technically impossible to do. Secondly, unfortunately, this bill, tabled now and defended so zealously here, is practically a provocation to today's state situation. I've read a lot of things that have happened in my life, and I don't want to repeat here before the talkers, but first you have to solve the issue inside the community because people who, under the outsider and under the name of a new one, have worked for the communist system of your environments, and, unfortunately, some of them today are among you. Some aliases were said here, and I was told that we had neglected to say Agent Virgil's alias. I would also like to say something else, very important, because I know that this is being speculated about the so-called State Security card agents. The ones that only have one card left. In the report of the late Nanka Serkedjieva, approved by the then Minister Atanas Semerdzhiev, is explicitly written: And then, starting with the destruction of these documents, they practically destroyed the personal and work affairs of these agents, and those for whom only the cards were left, unfortunately, are the particularly valuable ones for which everything was to be destroyed, but due to circumstances and for technical reasons they were preserved. Come on, look between you guys, who's only got the cards, and make up your mind about who these people were working for. That's what I'm talking about. So, by exciting this topic again, you want to hide behind this pathos your guilt as a political party for these 25 years, because you put in the ghetto people from whose circles you come from. Finally, I want to say something very important because it is related to this Bill. I would like to remind you of the political power that created the administrative order to restore the names. This was the UDF in 1992, whose government you betrayed and took down. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u75	- What's the line? I won't. There's a word for a statement, Assoc. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This bill is one sequel. We can call it conditional on the new DPS policy. This policy may have started a year and something and it has a good quality. It is more frank. Often, our colleagues use the expression: Let's take off the masks. I think this new DPS policy is taking off some of the masks. Behind Euro-Atlantic rhetoric, behind the words of values, behind structural and structural, systematic or systemless parties lies a very clear policy and is essentially nationalistic. Let us just remember that this policy began at the moment when the Movement for Rights and Freedoms fell into deep internal and foreign political isolation. She reached for the instruments of Turkish nationalism. The provocations that took place during the election campaign were provocations against the state, against constitutional order, against the laws. A provocation that deepened and developed. [[Replications by National Representative Chetin Kazak.]] Today it is very often spoken of by this tribune about DPS demitology, about revealing the truth about DPS. Yes, we can say that this is necessary. History is always a source of explosive material, and an English historian had said that it could be used to construct bombs the way the IRA made them from ammonium silit. Today, the revival process through this Law is again being brought into political circulation and the DPS has achieved its goal. It provokes our National Assembly, it provokes the public, saying: The person who is for the Law is for the European values, which is against the Law, is a sparkler and guardian of the revival process. This is what our colleagues do with an extraordinary self-esteem. Frankly, I didn't believe that a party could take credit for speaking in the words of the Most High. Today we saw that the leader of a party allowed himself to speak to the parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria on behalf of the dead. That, gentlemen, in every religion, is something that is impulsive. Today we are convinced that this bill speaks on behalf of the dead, and we reach out or oppose the will of the dead. I think from antiquity, from the time of the pyramids to this day, people have a cult of the dead. We have to bow our heads to these, because this is our future. That is why this policy is a manifestation of the use of history as a policy when the real possibilities of politics are absent. I would like to finish with something: Yes, the Bulgarian people are not responsible for the revival process. It is not the Bulgarian state's fault. A political party is guilty, which imposed a regime that came with blood and violence, which gave birth to the Bulgarians in Pirin Macedonia, which betrayed the Bulgarians in Vardarska and Aegean Macedonia. This party bears the historical responsibility and there is no rehabilitation for it. But I would like to ask the gentlemen who represent themselves as heirs, born out of the sorrow of the revival process, as heirs of the Turkish national liberation movement in Bulgaria. Bulgaria and the Bulgarians apologized for this violence, but we didn't hear here or anywhere else...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u77	Mr. Mihov, excuse me, you may request an extension of the group's time as you are running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u78	...an apology for terrorism against Bulgarian citizens! We did not hear an apology for the bombing of Bunovo Station and the innocent mothers and children! We're waiting for that apology! [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u79	Would you like an extension on behalf of a group, Mr. Mihov? There are more entries for speeches from your group. I'm listening to you, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Madam President, I'm speaking to you, it seems that the topic of DPS is interesting. Let's do a separate meeting on the DPS theme. I call on my fellow Members to concentrate on the tabled bill. Otherwise, for some who spoke on the topic of DPS and stated positions on the bill, I would like to remind you that somewhere it is written and said: "In the cases you will recognize them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u81	Mr. Karadaye, perhaps half an hour earlier today during the debate, I urged us to return to the point we are discussing, namely the Bill with its concrete proposals. Indeed, this is the subject of our debate. Once again, I call on the Members of the National Assembly to concentrate the focus of their speeches. The word is Chetin Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u82	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! I want an extension of the parliamentary group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u83	It's already extended to all parliamentary groups, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u84	Thank you, Madam President. And I also join the appel: let's go back to the text of the Law, to the specifics of what is proposed and not deceive the MPs with those who have nothing to do with what is contained in the Law. The law, honourable Members, offers three simple things. Firstly, to cease illegal, illegal practices by civil servants to ask citizens in a procedure for issuing certain supporting documents to indicate the names which were forced upon them during the so-called "renaissance process' But unfortunately, the practice is widespread in many Bulgarian municipalities. That's the first thing the law has to offer. The second thing the Law proposes is to recover from the Office of the Ministry of Regional Development the names of the persons who died during the revival process who died with their forced names, who had no opportunity, never had the opportunity and have not yet been able to make their volition freely. It's something the state owes them because then she forcefully changed their names without asking them without asking for their volition. Now, the same way that she forcedly changed their names, should restore them without imposing any complex procedures, gather all the heirs who are somewhere abroad, some have died, and look for their children and grandchildren, gather together and sign declarations and so on and so forth. These people died with forced names. They must be reinstated by the administration. There is no obstacle to thegrao Directorate to order all its departments to carry out this official action and to delete these names, to restore them to the registers. The GRAO Directorate has all the means to do so. The third thing we propose is to erase once and for all from the registers these violently imposed names during the revival process of all individuals who have already freely recovered their old names. In other words, persons like me, such as colleague Tuncher Kardzhaliev, who have recovered our names, still appear in the registers, unfortunately, both in the City and in the court registers and forcibly imposed during the revival process names. We want the state to delete them so that no employee will ever be able to say: "Say your other names, or you have other names that are related to you." These are names that bring back painful memories of the past, these are names that these citizens want to forget. They never want, especially not representatives of the state, to remind them of them when they are taking certain administrative procedures. It's the three simple things. This is not about replacing the will or some new rebirth process and so on. These fantasies, which we have heard from colleagues from the bottom of the Chamber in particular, aim only and simply to mislead the majority of MPs, to change the subject. I address all Democrats indeed, as Mr. Andreev said. If you really are Democrats, colleagues, I exclude the Patriot Front, but the others, if you are real Democrats, support this bill! This is not about either the DPS or any other political force. Don't you also want to win the votes of Muslims? Didn't Mrs. Karayancheva constantly fight for this and constantly claim from the TV screens? Then prove it! Otherwise they will never believe that you are sincere. Then, when the Law on the Declaration of the Communist regime was passed, this was done by the predecessors of the colleagues who stand here and are now called the Reformation Block. When we accepted all the declaration condemning the revival process, I think then those who voted for it were sincere. Let them now show in action, not just in words, that they are convinced that the revival process was a criminal act, that his inheritance should be once and for all erased. When we talk about both State Security and similar topics, we need to be really principled. Especially when people who were the leaders of the political police of the government of Ivan Kostov here today to give moral assessments, I, as a person who remembers then how the former National Service acted, the successor of State Security, under the leadership of a current colleague, cannot accept his moral judgements today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u85	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u86	First line, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u87	Dear Madame Chairman, dear Mr. Kazak! You called on us to return to the Law and finally started again with the political statements. I want to tell you something that you know, but you seem to forget, some of you are younger, but people like me were in the square before the National Assembly to defend the rights, your rights and to restore the names of the Bulgarians. Let me say that we the Reformation bloc consistently and steadily defend the rights of all Bulgarian citizens under the Constitution. Yes, some of you were in the BCP, but some of you were in the SDS, together we were in the SDS, and we were here, but this square to protect your rights exactly. So it doesn't seem like you to make such accusations against the Reformation Bloc colleagues because I was a student then and it wasn't that simple, and it wasn't so peaceful to express a certain opinion on this subject. 1990 and 1991 were hard years. If we go back to the Law, let's say this isn't about politics, it's about technology and inability, in the way the bill proposes, to make these things happen. Yes, we do not disagree with what we have been expressing all these years that this was a dark-headed mechanism, a sinister undertaking to which we never want to go back. But yes, there is a question of a legal mechanism, of technology to effectively take place your proposals, not to make a debate that the Bulgarian society does not need. Tell me, 25 years after the beginning of democratic changes in Bulgaria, do you think such a fierce debate is needed on this subject or perhaps the only idea is to tighten the ranks before the local elections? Thank you. [[Private applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u88	The second line is Mrs. Karayancheva, third line Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u89	Madam President, honourable Members! I don't believe you're being sincere because you've turned the revival process into a trademark. If you come on 26, 27 December in Mogiljane, Momchilgrad there is no relation, there is a party rally there! How do we go to the villages?! I walk very much in the villages and this very annoys you very much and in Turkey I was, people accepted me and in the villages everywhere they know me, but you know what they say to me: "We can't meet you because the mayor is watching. You have made the Bulgarian Turks truly fortified. When we came and started talking to them, when we have an attitude and members of the Bulgarian Turks, it really hurts you. [[DPS lines.]] Let me tell you something else about the bill we're talking about right now. You give only one side, and from then on what will happen to the property registers, to the agricultural registers...?! This is how I do not believe you, because this is another political gum, so that you can mobilize the ranks, so that you can say: Here are those who do not want to return your names, as it was when the GERB government comes to change your names, they will spoil your mosques. Well, three and a half years, the first GERB government, there was no such thing! People are convinced. And you need political gum again. That is why I do not believe you, colleagues, that you are sincere in what you are doing! Because a party can not be a representative of just one ethnicity, a party should be a representative of all ethnicities in Bulgaria. So you're not sincere and you can tell! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u90	Third line, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u91	Mrs. Chairman! I will continue the theme of sincerity and have one specific question for Mr. Kazak. Mr. Kazak, since the creation of the Forty-second National Assembly, I have closely monitored all media appearances of you and your colleagues. You have repeatedly addressed the Patriotic Front, the Reformers, but never to the attack. [[Noise and lines.]] I'd like to ask you: because they are your former coalition partner, do you never mention the name of an attacker? [[Private applause from GERB and PF. Revelations: "Bravo! "]] Now you didn't ask for support from them, you didn't brand them, as you branded our colleagues from the Patriotic Front, and almost the Reformation bloc. Why don't you turn to them, too? That's what I wanted to ask you, and if you could give me a specific answer so that we can understand you, I'd be grateful. [[Applause from the Reformation bloc. Proclaims: "Bravo! " Noise and lines from DPS. Partial applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u92	It's a hole, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u93	Thank you. I really amused myself with the last line. Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Zenogorski, I thank you for attending the first rally and for supporting the Muslim rallies at the time for restoring their names and their rights. Then you were really principled. Keep it up today! This is our appeal to you. As the UDF once passed the law declaring the communist regime criminal, including the revival process as one of its greatest crimes, as again at the initiative of the Blue Coalition, the declaration condemning the revival process was adopted. Be principled now that we propose to overcome the consequences, to obliterate the last remnants of this revival process! Do not point out arguments: see, because the DPS offers it, the DPS is asking you to leave this! Whether we are sincere or not, let our constituents judge. You support what is specifically offered because it has no color, it aims to solve a problem that affects a certain category of Bulgarian citizens. If you believe that this category deserves to be solved permanently, support it! As we have supported your initiatives and the law declaring the communist regime criminal and the declaration condemning the revival process. We're principled, no matter who offers. When something is in tune with our principles and ideas, we support it. Do the same, this is our call! Mr. Dimitrov, this is precisely why I am addressing you, and I am not addressing the Ataka, nor the Patriotic Front, because I know that they will never give us support on these issues. I have no illusions in this regard. However, I keep hoping, because you claim to be heirs of the UDF and the Blue Coalition, all in all Democrats, Reformers and so on, there is a party in your ranks that also claims to represent part of the Muslims. Be at the height of your claims and support this Bill to prove that you are such. Because the very coalition you entered was never in a coalition with either the DPS or the BSP. [[beeping and shouting, laughing, cheering: Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah!]] But you're in an open coalition with the Patriotic Front. In open! You've signed a statement, you've hugged, kissed and so forth. Don't go any further. [[Noise and lines on the right.]] So be principled, because what you were doing at first was not in principle. Now restore the impression that you are principled.. support the law! Thank you. [[Applause from the DPS. Noise and lines on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u94	To make a statement there is Mr. Kasabov, after him Mr. Zablyanov, Ahmed Ahmedov and Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u95	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm taking the floor on the debate that I've already had here in this room. Because when it comes to anything in Bulgaria, it starts with the beauty, or this is the revival process. Notice, this revival process is waving like a flag to get the next not political but financial dividends. This was the case in the last 20 years when the anti-constitutional party DPS ruled Bulgaria. In fact, along with the word "renaissance" there is another word called "tolerance" which is also worn out and twisted in the mud. Because the word "tolerance" is used by people not agents, by snitches. Snitches who in those days actually wrote and brought to their closest people, to their people from their ethnicity. They brought in, and that's how they decided human destinies. I ask the agents here from this political party: how many human destinies have you destroyed and burned?! Why are you yelling and screaming for tolerance now? Maybe to hide your guilty and black conscience. I ask you why all this time you've been putting the name Turkian in our name, and why don't you tell the truth that then your people from the pro-Turkish Nationalist Party, which you're heirs of, pushed women and children as a shield in front and hid behind them?! And because Turkian was actually thrown by her mother. I ask: is not the blood of the dead women and children at Bunovo Station?! Until recently, there was the Turkish fountain of blood, raised in symbol of banditism, terrorism, and there you went and worshiped. Is that what you call tolerance? Or this is perhaps European thinking, European ethics. It's called medieval banditism, darkness. Until recently, your representative, the regional coordinator of the DPS, was actually one of the participants in the bombing of Bunovo Station, where four women, three children, nine people were injured, including two deaf children. Is that what you call tolerance, I ask? And when we talk about the revival process, it comes to this place where the Bulgarian people should eventually be united because such revival processes took place in neighbouring Turkey, where you serve. Dear colleagues, it seems to me that right here, from this tribune, hypocrisy is inappropriate. But, in fact, when we say hypocrisy, we must not forget that your party's logo or motto is: "We hate and love to steal. If you have to put a real logo at the same time, then this logo of your party will be the logo of the dark-blown Middle Ages "The gallows, the yatagan and the severed head. It's you! From now on, everything is demagogy. I ask you, " Who are you? Are you a man? Are you a woman or a hermaphrodite? Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u96	Thank you, Mr. Kasabov. Your group's time is up. You only have 10 seconds. Replies to Mr. Kasabov's statement? I won't. Since it is good to alternate the speeches from different parliamentary groups, Ahmed Ahmedov has applied. [[BSP LB.]] Yes, Mr. Jablyanov, you are. After you, Mr. Siderov, then Mr. Ahmedov and Mr. Bozhinov. Come in for a statement, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, this is how it happens sometimes.. things do not happen as we have planned them, because order changes on the move, albeit by accident. A few things in favor of historical truth. The names of the Bulgarian citizens who were replaced by the previous regime were restored by a decision of the Politburo of the Central Committee of the Bulgarian Communist Party at the end of 1989, which condemned the policy of the revival process. This is for the information of colleagues from the SDS who have another version on the matter. Here the archives, as they say, are alive. Many people have referred to the fact that they have read many documents, they can also read the Politburo's decision. A few questions that remain in the air after today's discussion. This is the question, as Commissioner Zelenogorski rightly put it, after 25 years of democratic development, we have found ourselves in this debate, which means that that political regime on which we put our hopes, namely parliamentary democracy has not only not done its job, but has not been able to wipe out the wounds and put things historically in place so that everyone feels their justice realized. And why is that? Perhaps as a result of the political mistakes of our predecessors, but today we are being called upon to correct these mistakes. I'll take the liberty of pointing out the first one. At the beginning of these epoch changes, the then Bulgarian Communist Party, and then the socialist party, proposed to close the page of confrontation. Then the honourable colleagues of the then UDF and the right insisted on reading a sheet on a sheet, a folder on a folder, to discover the truth. And what did you find, fellow Members, after 25 years? What did you find? We've come this far. Right?! I have no doubt that there are willing to read these pages decades ahead, return to them and seek the truth. Finally, we have come to the situation in which, what are we discussing today...... is it fair for someone to bear the name given to him by birth? Of course it's fair! We would like to raise an important question. We all adhere to the values of modern Europe, but the fundamental value of modern Europe or one of the fundamental values is individualism, the right of the individual to develop, to educate himself, to realize himself, to make decisions for himself, and I do not know to what extent it is correct to resolve these issues with collective decisions. That's embarrassing! I would like to draw attention to one more aspect of the matter. The first abuse was carried out by the UDF, which basically changed the names of our fellow citizens with their bill and their law and did not restore them, but not to enter here into this topic. I want to finish a few sentences, where we are again with reading these pages. It was institutionalized all this confrontation, it did not just remain on a verbal level, but were created bodies and institutions for reading, for branding, for branding. Let's close the Commission for the files, fellow Members! Let's close it! [[Heckling]] Let's end up with these kennels of confrontation, where comfortable sheets, folders, cardboards, and who gets what on hand to get punched at the right time. If you want consent, if you want to correct the political mistakes of the predecessors who led us here, let's do something meaningful. A few words at the end. Perhaps we should not, however, go away in today's day with such a negative attitude from this debate, because European history shows that the consolidation of European nations has been a long period and they are composed of various ethnicities, and this process has not gone smoothly, has not gone through without confrontation, has gone through some times with blood, revolutions and civil wars. Fortunately, we're not in this situation. I believe that if, here in this highest forum of the state, we close this page and here I will open a clamp to congratulate my colleague from the DPS, who has once proposed, I do not understand who it is, to close this page, because this is correct, we will enter another stage of our national development, because the consolidation of the nation requires this type of solutions, not committees, not digging into the past, not a law on the criminal nature of the communist regime, which is absolutely uncontainable. I will ask one more question this year is the 70th anniversary of the victory over fascism in Europe. What is the state of Bulgarian anti-fascists today in our society as a result of a decision here in this National Assembly? People who freed other peoples in Europe and instead of being proud of them, we took everything from them and made them almost criminal criminals with an untenable law. There's no law to settle history! That's the lesson. If we want to be MPs, we can take it into account if we do not have laws to pass indefinitely. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u98	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Replies to Mr. Zablyanov's statement? I don't see any lines. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Siderov, come in. About 13 minutes there is a parliamentary group - I hope, however, more systematic because time has advanced.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u99	There's a lot of grief and pain. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's debate, I saw a very large pathos and heard fire words from different groups. I'm not gonna point them out because I'm gonna challenge a chain of personal explanations. So I'm gonna talk a little sneaky, call them with the tags they've put on each other, reformers, ordinary designers and so on. First, when he argues, there must be factology. Factology, above all, as one president had said: the economy, you fool! That's what I say about factology, without the address. What are we offered here? Firstly, I will say why we will not support this proposal by the DPS. Why? Because it wants when you go to draw up a birth certificate, marriage or death, not to ask you what your Bulgarian name was. This will confuse the register itself. Imagine that it is necessary to give you an act, to ask you anyway. This, one. Secondly, you want to replace administrative names of already deceased people. How do you know that this deceased person or any of these deceased people would not want to keep their Bulgarian name? You can't know that, except through a spirit session with the afterlife. But that's not right for us. I'm getting to the point. I can also bring in pathos, you know, I'm a speaker, but I'm talking about the point right now. What you are proposing is a single goal to show that in Bulgaria there are very many so-called here I come to absurdism, the ochsimoron of Bulgarian Turks and here I turn to the right half, which used it three times at least some representatives. There are no Bulgarian Turks! Says this not Volen Siderov, but says Midhat Pasha, who, you know, is a great figure in the Ottoman Empire. The guy graduated from the Sorbonne, educated, qualified. In an article in the French magazine "La revue scientifique" in 1868, Midhat Pasha writes that in today's Bulgarian lands, which are, thank God, today again, there are about a million and a Muslim population that has nothing to do with Turkish ethnicity. So stop using the word "ethnic" and "ethnic" peace and so on. These are Muslims, descendants of the Muslims, very often on the violent path there was also voluntary, but most of them were forcibly Islamized Bulgarians. Says Midhat Pasha. At one time, this man also became a great vizier, Prime Minister, named after him. So let's be clear about the facts. There are no Bulgarian Turks in today's Bulgarian lands. This confirms this and DNA analysis, which with modern methods of DNA research shows that by genetic code living here, in our country, are medium- and southern Europeans, but have nothing to do with Turkic or Mongolian genes. And here I go to another group that I would really form a Sunday school for to learn their historical facts. When you put on a sign, you should know Bulgarian history. Dear patriots, in Bulgarian history, there is no ruler with the title of Khan. I had announced a reward a long time ago and I supported this proposal of mine which found a single document, written, epigraphy, whatever you want, to say that a Bulgarian ruler was called Khan, with a Turko-Mongolian title, I will give him this prize. But there's no such document. [[Relations from the Patriotic Front.]] The Bulgarian rulers bore the title of "canas" which means "knyaz" in old Bulgarian. Nothing more! As a book is a book. So, Kanas, they were princes. We don't have Khans, and that for purely political, geopolitical reasons we have been called the Order that came here with Khans, that is another matter now. But one day the true history of Bulgaria will be written and in this true story a page will be quoted as Midhat Pasha.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u100	Mr. Siderov, just to remind you of the basics of the bill. [[Replys from "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u101	Yes, please! Don't interrupt me, you've never interrupted anyone before. So you'll extend the time after that. [[Replys from "Attacka."]] The true Bulgarian history in which it is clear that there are no Bulgarian Turks here, there are Muslims who are descendants of Islamized Bulgarians. They have their rights at the moment, absolutely not limited in any way, they have the free will to choose their name, including in the group of the DPS there are those who carry the plugin But administratively changing the names of already deceased people, we disagree with that. We believe that it is done in order to show that here in Bulgaria there is a very large majority of so-called Turks. This is becoming part of a geopolitical game that I've written a lot about and talked about, and now I'm not going into the details. And another plot line to look at, because here there were representatives from the right "SDS" or other accompanying parties that explained about coalitions. In a coalition with the DPS were the SDS. I remember 1997 very well. They marched in the streets of Sofia Ivan Kostov with blue tape, Nadezhda Mihaylova, Ahmed Dogan, they walked together in a row. If we go further back, the SDS and the DPS were coalition partners. And now let's say for Black Peter the DPS is Black Peter in Bulgarian politics. I've heard a lot of pathetic words here about the bad. [[Laughter]] When you want to protest against the DPS, I will not use qualifications, I have talked too much and wrote on this topic.. I will not quote myself, but when you want to speak or stand against the DPS, dear reformers, disinformators, patriots and others, you must go to the American and English Embassy. Who put DPS in Bulgarian politics? This is not this legendary State Security, which is a complex of some of you, this is the American and English Embassy. They were the ones who said in 1991 to the then Prime Minister Dimitar Popov who was alive and well, to give him God for many years, who can be asked now, and to tell you who phoned him and who went to him. The English ambassador and the American with the clear directive.. if you do not write the DPS about the elections now, do not include them because there was such a dispute then, we are talking about the elections at the end of 1991, when the SDS with little but forever became a coalition with the bad..................................and if you do not include them in the elections at the end of 1991................................ And when he tells you England and America: "Think to him!" What do you think Prime Minister Popov has done? Well, he put them in the election. So behind the DPS was the American and English Embassy. I think they're still standing, I don't know, let Mr. Mestan say if they're standing, but they're the ones who made the DPS a factor in Bulgarian politics. Therefore, dear opponents of the DPS, when you wish to declare it anti-constitutional and another with the posters at the American Embassy. I'll show you where it is, if you don't know, I've done a lot of protests there. There, protest why you maintain such an anti-constitutional party. In conclusion, to all who are trying to play with the theme "Communism and Anticommunism." The biggest anti-communist in the Republic, Mr. Andreev, will immediately come for a personal explanation, to tell him that communism was not invented in Bulgaria, was not invented in Russia, Romania and Hungary, which were communist countries. It was invented in Western Europe. The communist is named Kashel Mordohai, a birth name, or Karl Marx, a name he accepts. And it has nothing to do with it. The Bolshevik Revolution didn't make her Russians, but came people with ships and in closed wagons outside paid for by American bankers with specific names. [[Radio in the Patriotic Front.]] Yes! State security was part of Bulgaria's defence apparatus, of the country where we all lived. I don't know why this cleanliness is now? You're all different, you're subtracting agent names, you're pointing to one name, and you're not pointing to another name. When you say "Paul," say "Ivan"; when you say "Dragan," say "Stoyan," right, if you want to expose someone. But I don't think it's a damning moment. Maybe these people were working for their homeland, maybe some of them were writing notes, and all this stands on their conscience, God judges. But don't use this game because it's already so tired and worn out, and on top of that, it shifts the topics from those that are important. Here, today we offered to remove the monopoly, to remove a tick from the back of the Bulgarian people. You didn't ask. Otherwise, you are great speakers on topics that have no meaning for the Bulgarian economy and standard of living. Here, in a moment, if time permits, because we've already had a long time with this irrelevant topic, a proposal for pensions will come in. Here, there to debate, there to protect the Bulgarian people's interest. That is what I call you, and that concludes my short speech, the rest at Sunday School. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u102	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. Are there any lines to Mr. Siderov's statement? I can't see. I see it's 11:30, and I'm announcing a break. At 12:00, we proceed with the blitzcontrol. The Prime Minister and the four deputy prime ministers will be present. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u103	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. The sitting shall continue with the scheduled for each first plenary Wednesday at 12:00: BLlCCONTROL. Mr. Boyko Borisov, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Mrs. Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Mr. Tomislav Donchev and Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin. Two more deputy prime ministers are expected. I recall the procedure for topical oral questions under art. 104 of the Rules. A Member of Parliament shall be given the floor on behalf of a parliamentary group to ask an up-to-date oral question within two minutes. The response by the Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister shall be up to three minutes, two minutes by the National Representative for a reply and two minutes for the duplicate of the corresponding Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister. I recall that each parliamentary group is entitled to up to two questions, setting them by size, the number of parliamentary groups. First is the Parliamentary Group of GERB. [[National Representative Stanislav Anastasov wants the floor for a declaration on behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group.]] A declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group at the time of blitzcontrol is inadmissible under our Rules of Procedure, so I cannot give you an opportunity for a declaration. On behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group, the first question. We're listening, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! My first question is dictated by the situation in the country. He is addressed to the Prime Minister Mr. Borisov. Unfortunately, I didn't want to start the way I did. Yesterday, certain political forces tried to use the state in which we are in the floods for political purposes. Mr. Prime Minister, I and my colleagues also know that two interagency groups were created on December 1st with your order. The purpose of one of the groups is to continuously investigate the dams that are in a transmission state, to find the owners of the dams with unexplained ownership and to report this. Following the work of this group, as far as I know, from 268 dams 99% of them already have clarified owners. As far as I know, none of the dams that are in a transmission state are currently causing problems. The issue is really up to date and I believe that the answer we will receive will bring relief to society, not populist speeches to fear the Bulgarian citizens. My question is: what measures were taken by the government in dealing with the floods in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u105	Mr. Boyko Borisov, Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I do not need to be protected from speeches that were made yesterday by different parties. The role of parties and opposition is to take advantage of every situation and to try to be noticed in some cases more, in other cases less. About the floods, they're not from yesterday. I would add the winds, because indeed such hurricane winds are not remembered by many people. Pure precipitation statistics, especially now the critical situation is not from the dams, but there are precipitation and drained soils with water that simply have nowhere to run. Here, if you ask Mr. Chakarov, he'll tell you the same thing. He was a minister. Especially where the soils are clay, for the third month the waters stand and do not drain. Every new rain is critical. What Mrs. Ninova gave me a few months ago, this morning and at the D.A.'s office we had a meeting, there are only 15 dams that have no owner. However, these 15 dams already own because the district governors are involved and responsible for them. We can easily drain them at a certain time when there is no precipitation, but as is now the quiche, there will come heat and then we will need them for irrigation or other activities related to agriculture. In a word, you can see that this time we succeeded in time many ministers, chiefs of services, were all in the villages, along the rivers and are there at least not to sacrifice. Those who were given were not the result of the floods, but as a result of such a situation, I would compare it to the accidents on the streets, people are dying from no situation. In a word: I will not participate in politicisation or populism on this subject. Anyone who wants to do it, do it. There are so many examples that we could give, or you, as MPs, can answer that this would not be pleasant. At the moment, it is working actively not to allow it from dams or from such critical masses to become a bigger tragedy and people are there 24/7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u107	The line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister, thank you for your information and what you said. Our idea of the Parliamentary Group of GERB was the same.. should not in such situations draw political dividends and speculate on what is happening in the country. So is our request. Thank you for saying the same thing that we need to move towards solving problems, not to put pressure on them further. I believe that this is at least immoral. Thanks again for the information you gave me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u109	Would you like to use a hole, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u110	Can Donchev say something?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u111	It's about you. If you want a douche bag? You don't want to. On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u112	Madam President, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! The Bulgarian government relies primarily on external loans and on continuing privatisation to sustain the situation. However, this will neither increase the economy nor improve the lives of Bulgarian citizens. Frankly, we don't expect much from the current government. [[Voices from GERB: "Eeeee! "]] However, we insist that it does not increase the risks to national security and to Bulgarian citizens, not push Bulgaria into dangerous conflicts. The war in Eastern Ukraine is expanding. At the same time, military and diplomatic activity in the region of Southeast Europe is increasing. This is confirmed by the recent visits of senior representatives of the United States of America and NATO in Bulgaria. Recently, US Ground Forces Commander in Europe Lieutenant General Ben Hodges said that in the next few weeks they will do research in several countries, including Bulgaria, to look for suitable locations for the deployment of tanks and other armored equipment. After the study is completed, the proposal will be sent to the commander-in-chief of the US Armed Forces in Europe General Philip Breedlove by the end of February. Prime Minister, this makes me want to ask you a few questions. Have you consented by a member of the cabinet or by the President of the Republic for permanent deployment of heavy weapons and equipment on Bulgarian territory? Will you declare here and now that you will not allow the Bulgarian territory to be used for military action against another state and that Bulgaria will in no way participate in the military conflict in Eastern Ukraine? We hope for a clear and concrete answer from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u113	That was one question?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u114	This is a subject with sub-questions to which we expect you to give your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u115	For an answer, Prime Minister Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u116	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoilov, I can't speak for the presidency because I don't know, I haven't been informed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u117	There's no communication.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u118	There's communication. I haven't heard from the president that he made a commitment. You might as well ask. After that question I can ask, I'll answer. Before coming here with Minister Nenchev, I spoke for nearly half an hour, as he is going to NATO's meeting in Brussels. I have given him definite provisions on this subject, and it is: to our greatest regret, the Minsk Agreement is not respected and its war is growing in monstrous proportions. That's very close to us, 400 miles away. On the other side, a little further away, we have a.............................................. If this is the way things are going in Ukraine, there's no guarantee that people will run from there either. Now you see sanitary corridors, in a short time they make people out, they fight with heavy equipment. In a word, our great hope that all of this will end and be closed as a topic is not a fact. At the meetings that were with me and the Secretary-General and the Foreign Minister, with the Secretary of State of the United States, categorically and from this tribune, when I responded to Mr. Siderov, I clearly and accurately said that Bulgaria should in no way be involved in such a conflict. First, the Bulgarian population, the Bulgarian people are peaceful and any topic related to military action is not acceptable to the people as such. I'm putting the politicians aside. In short, this can't be a popular topic. You can't have someone who's carelessly giving consent, let alone that kind of technique. The only topic on which it is spoken are these exported headquarters in several countries, but they are logistical, they are not related to any military equipment. They're based on prepared security forces if, God forbid... I'm really very hopeful that this conflict will end. To Minister Nenchev I have definitely told him not to take any commitments and if there are any to Bulgaria, we will come to parliament and say what they are. Neither I nor Minister Nenchev are authorized by the people to make such decisions to bring Bulgaria into conflict, whatever it is. We are a parliamentary republic and this topic, if it is put in place, should be decided here. In a word, that's all I know right now. A decision will be made for headquarters to secure, if necessary, these rapid security forces that are being spoken of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u119	The line, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u120	Madam President! Mr. Prime Minister, thank you for the information. I think you should tell the ministers of your government not to make any commitments without written instructions from you as prime minister, to ask the president to exchange information about the talks, not to say at this stage about commitments that are being adopted, because this topic is properly being discussed in Parliament, according to its development, but not simply to put it before a done fact, but to be aware of the whole course of the process on these sensitive topics. You said right, but I would like to stress not to involve Bulgaria in the war! And it depends largely on our actions and on how we talk to our partners. Unlike the Baltic countries where there are concerns, we are not afraid of Russia, but we should not give rise to tensions between the two countries. Furthermore, I would like to offer your attention to whether Bulgaria should not be the initiator of a humanitarian campaign, because the victims of the war in Ukraine are already several thousand, a significant part of them among the civil population. And so, as you rightly marched into the centre of Paris against terror, shouldn't it be, when hundreds of thousands of people are being killed in the other part of Europe, that Europe rises up and asks to end the killing of citizens who, again, I say, are not directly among the warring countries in this conflict? Finally, let us propose to both European and Atlantic partners to concentrate our attention on rising extremism, including religious, including Islamic, which is becoming a major threat. And while other countries are looking for a way to dominate one region or another, we can find ourselves at the same time under the threat of two different conflicts. So my persistent recommendation is that we grade the goals and if we talk about a Euro-Atlantic partnership, it should focus primarily on where the strategic threats to the future of Europe and the world come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u121	A hole, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u122	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, if we put a ladder here, it will make it very easy for us. [[Radio.]] Mr. Stoilov, I make a very clear commitment because, again, there are topics on which I am not afraid to make decisions and stand by them, whatever they are. On the subject of military action, military presence, military involvement, there is no party that could take the right to make a decision. I would very much welcome if the Bulgarian Parliament, as on the subject of judicial reform and others, had reached a consensus, made a decision by a Council of Presidents to send this humanitarian aid. We're going to organize it and it would be a very good idea. Because they really do kill people, they're miserable, and they're, I repeat, right next to us. And we even have to do it. So if you want, let's unite the efforts of parliament, the government, let's do it. Secondly, I make a commitment to all of you every request to Bulgaria to be reduced, first, to Parliament, and, if any decisions are to be made, then to vote, to discuss and to make them. This is a subject on which I do not want to take such a responsibility because it is not right either. If that pleases you, we are available, together, to do what is necessary for the people who are there. Where are we not helping? You know, Bulgaria by its power as a member of the European Union we participate in solidarity in many places around the world. Here we are simply obliged and it would be nice to go humanitarian convoys with the inscription: "Parliament, Bulgaria." That would be a very good thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u123	On behalf of the Reformation Block, a question will be asked by Mr. Martin Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u124	Dimitrov. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u125	I apologize for missing the Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. The moment I realized my second mistake, I misspelled your name for which I apologize. Come on behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u126	Honourable President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! Bulgaria's accession to the European Union in 2007 agreed on the need for additional efforts in key areas to overcome the weaknesses in the fight against corruption, organised crime and other areas. Today, at institutional level there are many strategic documents aimed precisely at preventing and combating corruption, and the authorities involved in this area are over 25! This impressive group of state authorities, despite their activities, remain outside the effective and practical application of the established framework and strategic documents for the fight against corruption. The annual reports of the European Commission, drawn up as a result of the implementation of the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism, make periodic recommendations to Bulgaria. It is also visible from the recent findings of the European Commission, and from the study of the European Commission, I quote: The fight against corruption and the fight against organised crime are major problems for Bulgaria. The conclusion does not need a comment and finds its absolute impact in the public attitudes on which the cited study based its conclusions. Once again, the European Commission's main recommendation in the report of 28 January 2015 is that Bulgaria needs to review and update its national anti-corruption strategy. Also in the technical report of the European Commission it is stressed that in the fight against high-level corruption in Bulgaria is again working in a piece. In this regard, Mr. Prime Minister, my question to you is: what effective action and measures will you take to implement the European Union's recommendations on combating corruption in such a way as to ensure that this recommendation is dropped from the subsequent reports under the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism of the European Commission?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u127	For an answer... [[noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u128	Can you answer that, Deputy Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u129	Yes, of course. Who are you pointing at? Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u130	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I hope you don't mind me proposing an answer on behalf of the government, because I am committed to coordination on the work plan after the European Commission report, and you are quoting precisely the report. Indeed, one of our most serious tasks and, I agree, problems are related to the fight against corruption. What's been done so far? Since the beginning of this government's mandate, we have created a system of measures to begin to overcome this fragmentation of various institutions and to see what the way has been so far. There's a task force that's already completed its research. These studies are available to the government. She gave a picture at the time of the implementation of the strategies because it is a common mistake in Bulgaria that strategies are made, then very rarely reported, and there are no indicators to be reported, and this report will serve as a basis for the work of the working group to create a strategy for combating corruption. We'll be ready by March. I will coordinate the work and these efforts together with the Minister of Justice. Many NGOs, independent sources, will also be included. I can tell you what the goal is: the goal is to have a single body as well as to know who is responsible. If you pay attention to the report exactly where corruption is being discussed, you will see that the sentence is the following:..................... the competence of a single body........................ They cannot fail to contribute to the fight against corruption, but we need a form to declare the property, a body to check whether it corresponds to the income, whether it corresponds to the condition of the people who are subject to such verification. In Romania, where such an authority works with great success, there are 35-40 inspectors who do this analysis. That's the administrative part. There is another very important part that is related to the work of the Prosecutor's Office. You know that we have a specialized prosecutor's office that the DANS and the D.A. have joint teams to combat high-level corruption. I believe that this connection can be strengthened in order for the penalty part to be in place, i.e., the main supporting structure is administration and criminal justice. We'll be ready in March.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u132	Madam President! Mr. Prime Minister, the stately attitude you are proclaiming everywhere required you to answer because my question was asked precisely to you, but I will fall for the response of Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva, who says: "A single authority." And here my line is: how should we interpret when the government says: "Yes, we will have a single body to fight corruption and higher levels and at the same time Mr. Tsatsarov says that he will also make such a body for work, for fighting corruption. I wanted to hear that answer, but you obviously don't want to answer that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u133	A hole by Mr. Borisov, although there are no obstacles with regard to the portfolios of the Deputy Prime Ministers, they are therefore here to respond more competently. Otherwise, blitzcontrol would be only for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u134	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's just that the idea was also to hear them think, think, think what they've done, otherwise they're really not needed here. I can be alone. They don't keep me scared, otherwise with all due respect to you, and what the Attorney General is doing, and what we're doing. At the time of the justice minister, I have assigned, and perhaps next Wednesday we will have a plan to adopt as a programme, as a strategy for the report you quoted for implementation. Of course, there are a few commendations in a row, but we read them too, so we amplify the unit. We were in a meeting this morning, where the corruption unit is strengthening and is mentioned in the report. In parallel to this, the Chief Prosecutor's duties are in place and his proposals, as far as I know, will present them to Mrs. Tsacheva. They came to me in writing yesterday. I've assigned them to the Justice Minister and to the Home Secretary, so within a week, we will be ready and ready on all these topics that you're putting in place, and we'll have a plan like this. Don't think I didn't respect you with an answer. I thought you were gentlemen at the DPS and you loved more ladies, and that's why. Think of it this way, not as an insult. We are working very actively so that the recommendations that are in the report are implemented in the whole sense and text, and therefore our fight will be to remove the monitoring report. Our fight will be not to separate us, on the contrary, to set an example for us in front of Romania, so the two things do not differ. They complement each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u135	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. Now the word is Mr. Martin Dimitrov of the Reformation Block Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u136	Honourable President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! The Energy Committee organised a hearing on the extension of the licences of the V and VI block of We have also found that several complaints have been filed by environmental organisations and individuals against EIA on the V Block. If this case, which is being conducted by the State by the Ministry of Environment and Water, is won, there is no time for a new EIA. What concerns us from the Reformation Bloc is that the ministry has sent legal counsels to this case, this is our information, and it has not engaged the best Bulgarian and international lawyers who have won such cases to make sure that we will win to make sure that there will be an extension of the life of the V and VI bloc, especially the V block is about which the deadlines are much shorter. We have the doubt that these deadlines are short on purpose, that there is no time to resolve any of the issues on purpose, because there is a large lobby in Bulgaria by people who want to build or the VI block of... Kozloduy, or. Belene, in which projects, you know, are the huge commissions at the expense of all Bulgarian citizens. The national interest, however, is the extension of the work of the V and VI block of "Kozloduy" which is why, on behalf of the Reformation Block, we turn to you personally to engage in hiring the best Bulgarian and international lawyers who have won such cases to conduct these cases so that it is not too late tomorrow, it is not too late at the moment, there is time. We need to make sure that this issue is not left to legal counsels, which I do not want to underestimate, but that we have hired the best, and that there is no risk of losing these cases, which would be extremely unpleasant. Once again, if such a case is lost, there is no practical time for a new EIA, and specifically V bloc and its re-licensing will be put in a very unpleasant way in question, and the opposition will immediately use the excuse to make accusations that the best legal assistance on the issue has not been hired. So, Prime Minister, I'm asking for your personal commitment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u137	Do you know who filed the complaint?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u138	Please, no lines from the scene. Mr. Bojinov, control your emotions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u139	The mayor of Kozloduy filed the complaint.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u140	For an answer, Prime Minister Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u141	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Martin Dimitrov, thank you, I will do the necessary checking. However, let's get this straight. If I didn't misunderstand, blitzcontrol is about common policies. For every particular detail on Friday, there is parliamentary control on a similar topic. The Minister of Energy can easily be asked a question and answered. Or if we're going to use the blitzcontrol, you should at least warn us in advance. Now, if Ivelina Vassileva or Temenuzhka Petkova are here, they will stand up and will specifically answer you on the subject of who is the legal counsel, what has been done so far, can't, can't, can't, why they didn't do it to have more... Agree, I can't have everything in my head that 240 MPs can think of asking me, and at the same time, with an inaccurate or insufficient correct response then there will be a great response and comments. So my request is that we do this in the future. I've immediately assigned it to Donchev. As of this afternoon, the two ministers will contact you, say what they have done and will accordingly be at our attention not to make this mistake. You are certainly right that the extension of the V and VI reactor is vital to our energy and cannot make mistakes there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u142	The line, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u143	Dear Prime Minister, we at the Reformation Block do not view blitzcontrol as a place for the exchange of wits, as some other parliamentary groups do, but to resolve important issues. Since this issue concerns you directly, any possible problem will be addressed as a question to you. We used the occasion of your presence to ask a specific question, which is a national policy, concerning the future of Bulgarian energy. Without these two blocks, the price of electricity will increase dramatically in Bulgaria and the field for the construction of terribly expensive and ineffective projects will open. [[National Representative Georgi Bojinov spoke with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov.]] That is why I am pleased with your answer. We wanted to engage you personally and through you and Deputy Prime Minister Donchev. We have spoken with both ministers, or at least on the first name, a single number with the Minister of Energy, but we do not see the necessary public commitment on this subject so far. We do not see the firm commitment, we do not see that this is a definite national priority.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u144	Mr. Bojinov, you're preventing the Prime Minister from listening to Mr. Dimitrov's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u145	I hear and I can do a few things together.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u146	In short, Prime Minister, the ministers have been spoken to, but we do not see this firm commitment that only you can make. We do not need to inform you in advance about this topic. I think it's important that we inform you. The fact that you make a commitment that you are addressing Deputy Prime Minister Donchev to investigate the issue, to provide the best protection, is enough for us, so thank you for this answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u147	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u148	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Dimitrov, I've already said everything you say is true. Now Mr. Bojinov, for which I thank him, told me that the mayor of Kozloduy filed the complaint. We'll check that out, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u149	Lots of complaints.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u150	Many complaints, but still to tell you the state is leading probably two three thousand cases. If we have preparation for an answer, it will be easier for us and we will be specific and precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u151	Before I give an opportunity to the next question, I would like to remind the MPs the meaning of the blitzcontrol that is taking place at the moment arising from the provision of art. No. 104, para. 1: In the last two hours of the meeting every first Wednesday of each month, the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister appear before the National Assembly and respond to topical oral questions concerning the general policy of the government, made by the MPs of the meeting. Opportunity to ask their first question is from the Patriot Front Group. Mr. Valeri Simeonov is preparing to do this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u152	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members, Prime Minister! One of the main points for the Patriotic Front is carrying out an urgent revision in energy. This is enshrined both in our election program and as a result of the negotiation process and in the government programme. In this regard, I would like to ask you the following question: has anything been done in this direction for the past two and a half months? Moreover, this has already been laid down in the government's Programme as a separate chapter "Executing a comprehensive review of energy costs, forming the final price of electricity and creating an extremely important issue for the Bulgarian society. It wasn't a coincidence that the previous question was in that direction. So, my question is: has any analysis been carried out so far, if in detail you can reply, re-negotiate with the TPP, Maritsa East and 3, of which Minister Petkova had mentioned here that it was being carried out; is there an analysis of the costs of the state TPP - Maritsa East 2 and NPP - Kozloduy NPP - large overcosts there; and in the end, the main question is: when will these results be exported to the public? What is your view? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u153	For an answer Mr. Borisov, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u154	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Simeonov! I quote the Minister of Energy: within a month we will have the concrete results with a report to present to you. The mine controls are running now, the power plants, the nuclear power plant. What is currently found is that there are major violations mainly in public procurement. On the other hand, the Maritsa 1 and 3 are being negotiated. These are the two American power plants. The proposal that they initially made agreed to reduce the price of electricity, but for example after five years what they have reduced, to give them what we did not agree with. The negotiations continue now, making great efforts to make this happen. Within 30-40 days, we will have a maximum official position on you, not only on you, on the entire parliament, including I have ordered measures where, what and how it happens. In addition, I want this analysis to have why they are admitted, why and where the deficits in all of this come from. I can inform you that at the National Energy Company I sent Director Petar Iliev to the Attorney General, they filed cases to stop the power supply. In 2015 the whole was sold at a price of 70 " 71" to 72 BGN in order to stop this trade. From then on, there must be other topics that the minister could answer, but I don't want to throw bald attacks on anyone and take scheduled measures to follow. Deficits there are actually measured by billions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u155	The line, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u156	Thank you for your reply, Prime Minister. I'll set a meeting in 30 days. Thank you. [[Laughter and excitement in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u157	A hole? Do you accept the meeting, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u158	We don't have a choice. That's mandatory.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u159	There is a question from the group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! My question is to the Prime Minister Mr. Borisov. Over the past few months, the conflict in Ukraine, as we know, has gained a more intense phase and, apart from all foreign policy and military aspects of this conflict, for us Bulgarians, it has a specific aspect of the fate and future of the Bulgarian population living in Ukraine. In this regard, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you: does any Bulgarian ministry or the Council of Ministers have up-to-date information about the state of those perhaps several tens of thousands of Bulgarian citizens who are directly located in the areas affected by the conflict? What is the situation of these citizens? Does humanitarian aid prove to be, and to what extent, to address their most pressing needs? Are measures taken for their assistance and for the possible removal of citizens who may be owners of Bulgarian citizenship, not only ethnic Bulgarians, but also those who are practically citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria@ Do appropriate diplomatic consultations with the warring countries take place and are measures taken to ensure the security of these Bulgarian citizens who continue to live and reside in the areas directly affected by the conflict in Ukraine? I hope this happens and I expect you to hear how, because obviously the Bulgarian public deserves to know what the Bulgarian state does for those of our compatriots directly affected by the conflict.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u161	For an answer, the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleague, the conflict has really become more bloody and heavier in recent days. We are talking about people of Bulgarian origin - not Bulgarian citizens, but people of Bulgarian origin. I have entrusted the Foreign Minister, I have assigned colleagues in other special services who monitor the conflict more closely, to tell us what the risks are in principle, because they are risks to the entire population. When a shell falls, it does not choose whether you are ethnic Bulgarian, whether you are Ukrainian, Russian or whatever. Man is a living being. We have spoken on the first point with Mr. Yanaki Stoilov with the parliament to do everything necessary and humanitarianly to help with what we can all the people in distress there. In our foreign policy, if you will, with a declaration from the parliament to stop the fire immediately and to resolve the issues by peaceful means. This is nothing like killing people in the 21st century in the heart of Europe! It's not acceptable! If you allow me, as in your previous answers, perhaps within days we will have such an analysis. We will have an analysis whether there are persons of Bulgarian origin who want to come to Bulgaria. Not by accident in my first words: since these refugees from Syria, and not only from Syria, from Iraq, Algeria, where there is no pressure on our southern border every day, it is absolutely possible and possible, if this continues and escalates the conflict, to come to our other border. We must be prepared and provide appropriate assistance. If I can satisfy your question, I have asked it, it is working actively to have full information. She's not a routine so anyone knows. These are daily changing conditions there. It's winter, the population is in distress. From now on, we will prepare measures that we will present to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u163	The line is Mr. Yonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u164	Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. In my opinion, we need to think not only about the readiness of the state, but also about this willingness to be brought to the knowledge of these people. Because I am convinced that our fellow ethnic Bulgarians in the region may also have those with Bulgarian citizenship, those who have acquired this citizenship in the order in the past few years. We, as a country, are obliged to make sure that they are eventually taken out of the conflict zone, if necessary, if the conflict becomes even more intense and even more deadly, and of course, if they so wish. In this sense, I invite you not only to do an analysis, not only to be brought to the knowledge of the National Assembly and society, but also to bring these measures to the knowledge of those of our compatriots living in these areas, so that they can benefit from their rights some of them as Bulgarian citizens, and others as our compatriots, to experience the help of the Bulgarian state in a direct sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u165	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u166	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Yonchev, to the Foreign Ministry we currently have no record of such applications. You know about the helicopter in Sudan, or if there is a problem with Bulgarian citizens, we get information and it becomes public knowledge. Not at the moment. People can still walk out of there if they want to. The question is relevant at the time.. not when, if, God forbid, it happens, but continues this conflict and leaves a wave, or they want to come, we then think about how and how to help them. Thanks for asking. It will enable us to think and actually prepare ourselves if this happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u167	Mr. Volen Siderov from the Parliamentary Group of Ataka.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u168	I have a question that relates to economics and money, but first I want to summarize what you have said so far about the Bulgarians who live in Ukraine. Since we not only speak, first of all we act, we have already submitted a proposal to the Law on Bulgarians who will live outside Bulgaria, and an amendment to the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, so that we can give them citizenship, because they are now threatened. You discussed here with our colleague, but our Bulgarians who live there are threatened by mobilization. They force them into a frat war, use them for smoked meat, and thus the Bulgarian state can help them to become citizens through our proposal. But it must move into the Chamber, the majority must accept it. Here I come to the problem of relations between the majority and you, as Prime Minister. A few days ago you told a business forum that Bulgaria was drained in the form of investors 27 billion. $10 for 10 years. I'm glad you got into this topic that I've been writing and talking about for years. Even the number is downgraded the money exported is more, in the form of profit, making a profit and absolutely none of them remains in Bulgaria. This money, which is exported by the so-called investors, I call it colonists. These colonists, some of them are energy monopolies. Here we now come to the paradox. You are saying that these are monopolists, that these are supposed to be investors who make a profit, and in our country there is nothing left. Yes, I agree with that, but what are you doing, what are you doing in this direction not to do it again? What these pseudo-investors are exporting from Bulgaria is really huge money. The real figure is 28, about 30 billion. lv. per year. That's what I've been bringing in, and I've been giving data. These are ERPs, this is gold mining, these are chains mobile operators, chains stores and so on. All of these are foreign monopolists who get a huge profit here, practically don't invest anything and export anything. Now it is about the increased accounts of the company in Varna. Okay, you've taken a look at this. Great! But what are you doing as a government? Why don't you take the licenses of these companies and why don't they go back into Bulgarian hands? Today we proposed it, the majority voted against. Why do your views differ on these matters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u169	To make it clear to the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers that it is not accepted by the majority of the proposal for inclusion on the agenda. In essence, this issue has not been discussed. For an answer, Prime Minister Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u170	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Siderov, in your question there are actually several sub-questions, let's call them. I don't know where your offer is. If parliament does not move it accordingly, I ask you to send me a copy to look at it at the Council of Ministers, because in my reply to Mr. Yonchev I actually wanted to say that we should prepare ourselves if there is such a situation. Of course, usually other minorities come to Bulgaria. In this case, people with absolute Bulgarian belongings can actually be confronted with such a conflict. My request is also to our parliamentary group: in this case, I see no harm in considering it in Parliament, the opposite. But this, let's say, is pure party business. I'll talk to them. At the forum of the American Chamber of Commerce, where, you know, Bulgaria has repeatedly been blamed that the investment climate is bad, I gave the opposite example. On the contrary, the investment climate in Bulgaria, given the profits made by investors, is not bad at all. Yes, you are! A year of this kind of money can't be purely earned if we look at it from the figure you say, and I don't see the point of arguing whether it's 27 or 28, in this case, it's not that important. It is a fact that investors by outsourcing their activities, by signing absolutely unfavorable contracts, but absolutely by legal force that cannot be broken down, or by spoiling, or nationalisation, as you say, will also cost huge money. I truly hope that in Parliament you will find consensus and replace the composition of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission (EWRC). To replace it and choose the SEWRC that people can trust in such situations, because the licences are taken away by the SEWRC. My request is: find consensus people with reputation, with trust! Find consensus because it is an independent regulator, it is not the government's job to interfere there, but at the same time it is vital because it is he who regulates all these issues that you rightly put. So in this case, no matter how opposed we are to these things, we are co-conspirators, because they are right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u171	The line, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u172	My question is actually a repetition of recommendations that I have given here, from this tribune, and from your previous reign. These recommendations are as follows: End the contracts that are not profitable for Bulgaria.. not only for the ERP we are talking here. I mean the gold mine. Well, it's in the hands of a foreign company with 0.7% commission. Zero one and seven less than 1%. He's nowhere in the world! Giving yourself the gold to be exported by a foreign company, earning billions and paying 0.7 percent. This treaty can be reviewed and terminated by the government. Contracts which are not profitable in the same way in other sectors may be considered and terminated. If this is done by your government, then there will be coverage between this note that you said that we are not only good for investors, we are too tolerant for foreign investment, only that they are turning into colonists because they are not building anything here, they are not making factories, they are creating added value, they are simply making profits from sectors that are naturally earning these are services, they are telephones, they are electricity. You can't not pay for your electricity, your water. It's all in other people's companies. If these contracts are broken or at least sought under better conditions, then it will be an action that will cause approval, but only fairy tales will things not improve. They will continue to profit, and you as a government will continue to say that there is no money for this or that. In fact, there is money, but they are exported from Bulgaria. So my advice is to stop them from moving out, and then you will remain with one good name in history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u173	A hole? You agree. The ABB Parliamentary Group has the floor, Mr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u174	Madam President, colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen, Deputy Prime Minister! Obviously, the topic of Ukraine is a priority for both Bulgarian society and parliamentary representatives. Prime Minister, you were asked a question from a military point of view, from a humanitarian point of view. I will try to expand it from a political point of view, as you very well know that this is an extremely sensitive topic for the Bulgarian society, which sways between gratitude and good feelings for Russia, as a liberator, and between our obligations and commitments to NATO. As a NATO member, Bulgaria is responsible not only for implementing the common decisions to ensure the protection and security of the Alliance's countries, but also for making the decisions themselves. The announced intention by NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg during his visit to Sofia to create a NATO command centre in Bulgaria caused serious debates and even speculation in the Bulgarian public. In this regard, I think it would be appropriate for the government to provide further clarification on some issues: What was the Bulgarian position in discussing these issues in NATO and what were the arguments put forward by the government about the need to establish such a command centre in Bulgaria, if any? What risks to the security of the country, to what threats and where does the establishment of this centre respond? In what time frames is the establishment of this centre envisaged, how will it function, what will be the legal status of foreign servicemen in it? Lastly, was it not appropriate for the government's opinion to be reduced to at least the National Security Committee and the Defence Committee in such a sensitive matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u175	For an answer, the Prime Minister Mr. Borisov. Colleagues, I'm glad you're responding to this room. I have explicitly read several times that this is about one question. I leave it to the MPs to judge.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u176	Dear Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u177	I won't count to four.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u178	I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u179	I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u180	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members! I think it's pretty clear to all of us what risks this conflict is. You are absolutely right, and you, there are sociologists who, even when Crimea was taken over, most of the public opinion considered this right. Bulgaria is a little different. We and the Russian side have never been in this kind of conflict. Our conflicts there are on purely business relations why we buy the most expensive gas, why, why and so on. Otherwise, when it comes to friendship, peace, love, I do not know anyone in Bulgaria to question it. So we are not anti-Russian in any way to seek participation, not to mention military conflict. These are preventative actions of NATO headquarters and they are currently being discussed, led, spoken, including I said at the relevant meeting tomorrow. We didn't categorize it as a threat from there, it comes from the south. Only a thousand and 2000 km away is an extremely troubled conflict that is not known for how long, where and how it will escalate. We have no peace on either side. And all this is good that it is now being reasoned, spoken, and when I repeat to Mr. Stoilov, the first question was how many have already become on this subject, we will come and coordinate it with Parliament. Parliament will make such a decision. So rest assured in the sense that the last thing this government does is pretend to be hawks. When we went against a certain interest of a Russian company, it's not that we went against the Russian people. It is dear to us, it is dearest to us, I could ask a rhetorical question to them why Bulgaria, its nearest country, as they say, sell the most expensive gas? Nearly twice as much as the German most expensive! What did we do to deserve this? If, say, now we don't like them, a year ago the others liked them, or 5, 10, 15, not to get into any conflict, God forbid. It's about gas being expensive with anyone in power. In short, we have a very firm position there, and I think we've all stood up for it, whoever and when it's ruled. The other story doesn't forgive him anymore. We will place and place in the talks with all our guests at 4, 6 and 8 eyes in these talks, believe me, yesterday, because Mr. Siderov said that he followed my speeches at the American Chamber of Commerce, there I told the American investors the same thing to all the companies, the ambassador, all those who were, the European ambassadors: we do not want war with Russia. It's not our priority. We want to have cheap gas. This is different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u181	Here's a line for you, Mr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u182	Thank you, Prime Minister. My call was to be an active country not only in the implementation but also in the decision making of NATO and decisions which, first of all, correspond to our national interest. In this sense, I asked the question and thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u183	It's a question of non-members in a parliamentary group. Mr. Velizar Enchev will take advantage of his right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u184	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen and ladies Deputy Prime Ministers, colleagues! I have a question for the Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova, but this question directly concerns Prime Minister Borisov. On 18 January this year, Mrs. Bachvarova, you made a statement that compromises our energy policy, on the one hand, and, on the other, which is more worrying, strengthens the Russian position at the International Arbitration Court in Paris, where the Russian company Mrs. Bachvarova, commenting on the visits to Sofia of the foreign ministers of the United States of America and Britain, you said this verbatim: "Borisov is a prime minister who stopped three major energy projects: pipeline, pipeline, nuclear project. This is a strong political action, which can be appreciated by our partners. End quote. I will hardly reveal a state secret if I say that now the lawyers of the Russian country are happily rubbing their hands, because in their pleadings they will refer to Mrs. Bachvarova, which will further strengthen Moscow's claims for nearly 1 billion. BGN, as Mrs. Bachvarova's statement is a par excelance confession of guilt on the Bulgarian side. Since Mr. Prime Minister Borisov did not distinguish himself from the words of his Deputy Prime Minister or at least I have not heard, the judges in Paris have every reason to accept Mrs. Bachvarova's words as an argument in favour of the plaintiff. Five days later on January 18th, Mrs. Bachvarova, you said...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u185	Mr. Enchev! Mr. Enchev!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u186	.. on the contrary that South Stream is still in the government's plans, so I have the following question: do you continue to claim that Mr. Borisov is the politician who deliberately stopped the NPP project?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u187	Mr. Enchev, the current blitzcontrol may ask questions that are in the portfolios of the respective prime minister or deputy prime ministers. I remind you that Mrs. Bachvarova is Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration. Blitzcontrol and whatever parliamentary control is not subject to media statements, speeches by deputy prime ministers and prime ministers, so what you are asking from the parliamentary tribune does not have the character of a question of blitzcontrol. Mrs. Bachvarova, since you turned to her, there is an opportunity for a personal explanation, but, I repeat, this is not a matter admissible under our Rules of Blitz-control, as it does not affect the portfolio of activities of Mrs. Bachvarova. I reminded you what it involves as activities. Again in connection with art. 104 of the Rules of Procedure, which concern the common policy, which are in Mrs. Bachvarova's portfolio. If she wishes she could, in the form of a personal explanation, answer what you asked for, but I say again, it is not a question within the meaning of blitzcontrol.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u188	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Enchev, I want to tell you that I think it is not a good practice to discuss media publications in the Bulgarian Parliament, but I feel obliged to answer you because I see that you are quite speculating on this topic, and in an unacceptable way, because you are replacing the facts and arguments. Firstly, the quote from my speech is partly used because immediately after it there are clarifications that were related to the assessment of the economic effectiveness of the three projects. The second thing I want to say to you is that I have said nothing different than the objective facts that the three Russian projects were stopped for one reason or another, simply because they proved to be economically ineffective. The decision to stop Belene, proposed and taken by the National Assembly... Another procedure led to the refusal of the project "Burgas" Alexanderoupolis and it is a fact that the Russian side, after seeing that it could not meet the European requirements at the moment, decided to end the project "South Stream." And because we do not have an official notification on this issue, the Bulgarian side fulfils its obligations, but the facts are facts, Mr. Enchev. If you are so concerned about what the arbitration procedures will decide, I will remind you that the great aggravation came when the previous government decided on the construction of the new block in Kozloduy in the process in which such a procedure was under way in relation to Belene.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u189	There is no such solution, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u190	You know, ask the facts, too, Mr. Enchev. That's my personal explanation, although I don't know if it's right for the blitz-control procedure to...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u191	I gave you an opportunity, since I couldn't and there was no power to stop Mr. Enchev from asking his question. Moving on to the second round of questions. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB. A line from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]] Colleagues, please, I did not interrupt out of respect Mr. Enchev at the very beginning to oppose this way of asking his question. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] After he continued with his question, I was obliged to clarify what blitzcontrol included. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]] In the manner of conduct, Mr. Bojinov, you are right, but I will be very careful to see if this is a procedure in the manner of conduct and if you abuse your right, I will interrupt you. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u192	I'll be very careful, Madam President. You did not object, so I would like to object to the claim that there is a signed contract for building the VI block. [[Loud noise and lines. Revelations: "Eeeeeee! "]] Wait a minute! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u193	Mr. Bozhinov, I have no right in any form to correct those who speak from the parliamentary tribune, much less object, in any capacity whatsoever, to one or another position of those who stand responsible with their name and face in front of microphones. I won't give you a chance, I gave you... [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u194	As a matter of fact, to clarify that fact... [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off. Loud noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u195	That's not an option. You can use in the form of a common question...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u196	No general question...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u197	...in the second series in which you have the opportunity to ask a second question. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Thank you, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u198	Madam Minister, I... [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u199	There is an opportunity to put a second question on behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB. Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and National Representative Georgi Bojinov are talking away from the microphones. Loud noise and lines. Revelations: "Eeeee! "]] Mr. Bojinov, don't force me to impose sanctions on you under our Rules of Procedure. For the second time, please calm down, Mr. Bojinov, and take your place in the sector of your group. The word is Mr. Kirilov. [[Replica from Prime Minister Boyko Borisov to MP Danail Kirilov. Loud noise and lines.]] What is your question, Mr. Kirilov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u200	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Minister! Prime Minister, I will not try to interpret the question of Mr. Bojinov, which he never made clear, but will...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u201	Don't do that, I'll interrupt you too, Mr. Kirilov. [[(Radio.) (Laughter)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u202	This interpretation is unacceptable and should not be manipulated in this direction. I'm putting the question to Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva. Last week on 28 January, as well as colleagues from other political forces mentioned, the Commission report to the European Parliament on Bulgaria's progress under the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism was published. As Deputy Prime Minister for more than three months, Mrs. Kuneva, you have been entrusted with the work of coordinating the institutions in relation to the implementation of the Mechanism and monitoring, including Parliament through a delegation, with answers to all the questions that have been asked. We ask the question in this way: we have examined the Judicial Reform Strategy... how did it affect the conclusions in the report? What is due to the change in the initial expectation, that is, why do you think the report is more positive than the negative that we expected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u203	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u204	Thank you. I hope that the work information, because in fact the deadline has already started to run back, the countdown for the next report has started, so I will very much rely on you to continue asking questions and here from the parliament to set the pace of the measures that we are going to take. There will be a comprehensive strategy on, as the action plan says, a plan of action on the report, something that we have been doing for years. Within no more than ten days, the government will adopt such a plan with several components. One, of course, judicial reform and judicial strategy. Once again, I would like to thank the entire Parliament, after the discussion, the support received by the Strategy is very important. In the European Commission's report, the strategy is praised and it is said that it is a precision, that is, it is accurate and precise. In my opinion, we should lean on this qualification and perform it as strictly as possible. It is clear what its basic parameters are: several laws that need to be changed, naturally, the study of whether it is necessary and we need to be prepared for this if constitutional changes are required. I believe that since this Strategy has effectively brought together a qualified majority, a constitutional majority, this should not prevent us from delaying work, because the Constitution hinders one or another more profound reformist action. Why are there good assessments of this Strategy plus the Ministry of Interior Strategy? I think they gave a very good signal, and here I want to say something about political will. Almost every measure you will see, including the fight against corruption, must be accompanied and it is stressed that it must be accompanied by political will. I believe that such a political will in Bulgaria is certainly on the part of the government and the majority, but I hope this desire for reforms and political will to be multiplied. It will be well appreciated by Bulgarian citizens, will be well appreciated by public opinion. At the end of the day, every politician fights for it. There's no point in resisting, there's no point arguing. We have to adopt a plan that we have to follow and carry out as if we had to do it yesterday. Let's not delay. Use the day! Let's take this ancient maxim, ancient advice: use the day. I assure you that in June, when it is oral reporting, if I have more arguments, I will be able to report to you even better assessments about Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u205	The line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. I'll only allow myself one more circumstance. With gratitude to your efforts and with gratitude to the efforts of fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to say that at the end of last week, representatives of the eight political parties submitted the nominations for Chief Inspector. This consensus, and my request is to my colleagues, hopefully to remain and continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u207	A hole? You won't use it. Question from the group of BSP left Bulgaria "Mrs. Ninova."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u208	Mr. Borisov is my question of water policy. Mr. Borisov, you have a problem! For the first time, I see you as Prime Minister to settle a convenient issue on an extremely difficult issue in the country, both quietly and melancholylyly to answer. Believe me, it makes you look weak. It's your business to negotiate questions like this, but it won't save you from the real question with arguments. And I'm asking you to answer me with arguments.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u209	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u210	So. My question is water and flood policy. Why don't you keep your promises here? In November, BSP warned you that 78 dams should be removed, that 268 are deserted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u211	But they don't create a problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u212	I'm not asking you, I'm asking the Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u213	But they don't create a problem!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u214	Colleagues, I'm asking for some simple order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u215	You then reacted brilliantly with a PR reaction. You immediately called the Council of Ministers, you called prosecutors, you held a meeting of the Council of Ministers the next day, and there you say so, I read the transcript of the Council of Ministers: "After the illegal logging creates sacrifices, we stop cutting immediately. Immediately enter the parliament law and tell the MPs this law must be passed to stop the floods. By the end of December, I would like to end this topic by the end of December 2014 as I have committed to the National Assembly, to bring down, push, repair or sanction. This list should give me zero against 268 and zero against 78. It's February. First, illegal logging runs with full force. Secondly, the Water Act has not been introduced into the National Assembly, although you are giving yourself until December. Third, against 268 and 78, there is no zero.. None of the dangerous dams have been pushed, knocked down or there, as you command the Council of Ministers. The only difference, colleagues, is that there were no floods back then, and today there are [[(Shouts from GERB:]] People who are on the street in winter. [[Noise and lines from GERB. The Chairman gives a signal that the time has run out.]] My question is: what made you so change your position from the problem we solve to the level of your minister, who says the reason is climate change, and today we understand that the prosecution has told you that they are clay soils.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u216	Did you hear what the Prime Minister said?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u217	My question is what made you change this position, and are we going to solve the problems, or are you going to justify it? [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u218	Mrs. Ninova, the issue should be politics, not from a position, so it should be the Prime Minister's. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u219	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ninova, against the things you have said, I have explained very clearly and precisely that there are only 15 dams that are now responsible for the district governors. That is, what in the previous years has been proven inaction on your part, and undetermined, we have established it. If you like that tone, I can safely apply it. As well as the previous one, with all due respect to Mr. Bojinov, because I really respect his expertise, there is a decision of the Council of Ministers for the VII reactor, and there it says that "Westinghouse" is an investor, and then in the agreement the word "investor" disappears. I'll get them out and send them to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u220	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u221	Yeah, so I'll give it to you. In one, when he is admitted to the Council of Ministers, there is that he is an investor and then the word disappears. We'll get to her. So the tone is not... When flooded for years and it is indeed a fact that climate change is such because at the moment of these floods none is related to inactivity. Not one! None of these dams have overflowed, none of these dams have escaped, God forbid, due to unfinished business! How do you imagine in November and December to start draining the dams into these floods?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u222	Well, you say it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u223	I say it, but how do I know that in winter, January, instead of snow, it will rain 100 liters per square meter? How do I push the dams now in January and February? Imagine in this flood to knock down another 70 dams to drain the water?! I understand politics is politics, with all due respect to the opposition. I told my MP it wasn't his job to ask me that question because there's someone to ask me that question. Didn't I say that? But you've started ugly, that I've prepared myself. If you'd asked me, I would never have let him ask me that. Isn't that right? Even if he's an MP, he's superior to me. I would have found a way to stop him. [[Laughter at GERB.]] That's why I treat Mr. Bojinov with respect. On many topics we have the opportunity to reach consensus and not to, as Dyankov said, talk about topics on which nothing will come out of this blabbering. And I didn't say the D.A. told me it was clay soil. In the morning, I said we had a meeting with the prosecution and in these regions of Yambol and Sliven, the water cannot drain because of the soil itself. It's so watery, it's so watery, it can't take the water. What do you mean? What haven't we done now that in January we haven't knocked down, at Christmas, 70 dams, is that what you mean? Or stop the rain!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u224	Or the wind.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u225	In the previous term, I could, now I can't. Thank you. [[Greece and applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u226	Mrs. Nino has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u227	Mr. Borisov, your attempt to escape is not going to work! [[Strong noise from GERB.]] For example, I suggest that you have imported the Water Act, which has been on the MOEW page since October and is not in parliament. This is not about pushing dams and punctuating water! Give the law to us to make a single body of control of the dams. Where is your Law of the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u228	Why didn't you bring it to the previous parliament?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u229	First, this. [[GERB lines.]] Secondly, do not lie that there are no findings that there is a human cause in the flood. If you think you're the only one talking to prosecutors, you're wrong. Here's the D.A.'s report. The prosecution writes: The most damaged municipality of Miziya, with it there is not a single dam in practice, but the municipalities that are above it are neglecting the problem and in the end, breaking one of the walls of a dam in the neighboring municipality, there is this big flood in recent years in the country. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u230	When was that?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u231	There is! Mr. Borisov, I end this way: I warn you of the following: if you or any of your people say once again that my party is using the case populist or making a flood policy, I will tell the whole of Bulgaria what happened in Miziya. Not only will I tell it, but I will bring half the city to the Council of Ministers... [[The statement continues with continuous noise, shouting lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u232	Mrs. Ninova!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u233	...to tell you who was making lists, how aid was being given, who was abusing people's tragedy. I'll get the city to tell you about it. Therefore, I do not accept the thesis that we are doing this to abuse the floods. My party is doing it to solve the problem of forests, river troughs and dams. We're not just saying it, we're doing it. Prime Minister, we have tabled amendments to the Forest Act, your colleagues rejected it; we have tabled amendments to the Riverbed Act, your colleagues rejected it last week. We're wasting time, and the problem is standing. Because we're playing opposition and ruling. We from the opposition and from the BSP do not want this, we want to solve the problem together because it is a national tragedy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u235	Colleagues! Mrs. Tsacheva, I'm asking for 20 seconds. Colleagues, except as a political force...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u236	Mrs. Ninova...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u237	...I have a personal cause in this battle. I don't want any Bulgarian to be in my condition for 10 hours not to know if his parents are alive, 10 hours to listen to children screams in a 4 meter wave and feel absolutely powerless.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u238	Mrs. Ninova, I share and sympathize with you, but you're not the only one.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u239	Because someone's human nonsense, someone's corruption or someone's greed has brought this to this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u240	Many people have parents who are affected by such disasters - natural ones, do not abuse your right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u241	I have a motive for real and human. [[The speaker continues to speak on off microphones. Claps from KB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u242	Hole, Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u243	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, ladies and gentlemen of the House!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u244	Colleagues, please calm down!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u245	I didn't say there were no innocents. There have been 17 inspections and pre-trial proceedings in all registered cases for illegal logging, illegal buildings and poor management of dams. These are my data from the D.A.'s office. It came up, I was talking about these few days about what happened. At the end of February, the law will be in parliament. I can only recommend to colleagues from GERB that something is submitted by the opposition, if it is good, it will not fall your reputation if you accept it. Just as we wanted to pass such a law last year, it was rejected and you know how unpleasant it was for us. Don't do what you don't want to do to you is a basic principle in my life. So we said to ourselves who, whatever he has to say, sit down, look at the law, and if you can accept or accept these things, I am absolutely about it. We're not gonna lose our reputation. On the contrary, people are tired of fighting with MPs, parties. There are topics we can't agree on. But on these issues, floods, illegal logging, we're all for it. What prevents you from finding consensus? I apologize for addressing colleagues from the stands, but I hope you'll take that into account. Because Krassy Velchev is the most sophisticated gentleman in this group, sit down with your colleagues and talk to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u246	Colleagues from the DPS, you have a second question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u247	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! My question is to Deputy Prime Minister Ivaylo Kalfin. Minister, in the last few days in the media space there is information that you are preparing a bill for amendment to the Family Aid Act for children. What we read in media space is very disturbing for us. We believe that the changes you are preparing are first, unconstitutional, and second, discriminatory.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u248	Mr. Iliev, I am interrupting you because in this control and at all in parliamentary control it is unacceptable to ask questions about the legislative initiative of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u249	It's basically about politics, about social policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u250	If you reform your question of a specific policy, I will give you the opportunity to complete it, but for a specific forthcoming legislative initiative, which is also publicised through the media, there is no way to control the cabinet members for constitutional opportunity, and in particular those involved in the blitzcontrol today. Consider this, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u251	Thank you, Madam President. Specifically, on social policy, we believe that the policy that you are adopting, namely a change in some laws, is unconstitutional and is absolutely contrary to European regulations. I can only quote one member of the Constitution and I would like you to answer me specifically. I'm quoting art. 6 of the Constitution: Art. 6. All people are born free and equal in dignity and rights. By what different right would a newborn child be to a 17-year-old mother, say, from a child to another mother?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u252	You read the Constitution, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u253	We believe that the Constitution is the basis on which each institution must follow and, above all, the laws that are being prepared. In fact, there are at least two other laws you're breaking with these changes. Art. 14 of the Constitution and art. 40...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u254	If there is a law contrary to the Constitution, Mr. Iliev, it refers to the Constitutional Court. Parliament is not a place to argue to ministers with what or how they violate the Constitution. Thank you for your question. If Mr. Kalfin...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u255	I hope it's clear?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u256	As the MPs have heard, we will now see what the minister has found out. Here you are, Mr. Kalfin, but I'm going to ask you to answer in the sense of a reasonable question about blitzcontrol. Politics in these texts that Mr. Iliev refers to.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u257	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Iliev, you and your colleagues are getting kind of excited without seeing anything. Where did you see that thing?! [[Laughter and excitement from GERB.]] There's no such thing! No, you're making up some subject and building different ones around it. Mr. Iliev, for your information, on Monday at 11:00 am I will present to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to the media proposals for amendments to the Family Assistance Act. Then you'll be able to see the lyrics. They shall, as appropriate, be presented for public consultation. Once the public discussion is over, they will be co-ordinated with the other departments, they will join the Council of Ministers, they will enter parliament. You will have plenty of opportunities to discuss them when you see the texts. Now you're declaring something unconstitutional that's not there. I understand your desire, but let's think about it together. I meant 13-year-old mothers, not 17-year-olds, Mr. Iliev. Let's see what we can do there, because this is a problem for society. You're not going to protect the kids from going to school, are you? You're not going to protect them from having children so early? I suppose there are some ethical norms that require it?! If you have any ideas, come in, you're welcome. Then, when you talk about specific texts, first, look at them and then talk. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u258	Mr. Iliev, would you like to use a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u259	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We'd love it if we didn't, really! I want to remind you, you've been Minister of Foreign Affairs, you've been in politics a long time. It is clear that legal changes would target the Roma community in particular. However, you should also know as a European politician that in the Roma community early commitment and early marriages are part of traditions and customs [[beeping, laughing and raging from the right]] which the European Union tolerates as a whole and does not object to.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u260	Are thefts and crimes their tradition, too?! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u261	A hole? You won't use it. Members of Parliament, I will not allow any further question from which a parliamentary group comes regarding future intentions of the legislative programme and the legislative initiative of the Council of Ministers for one single reason.. They are not subject to control in these forms, whether on Wednesday in the blitzcontrol, or in Friday's control. When the bill enters here in plenary, Mr. Iliev, in the debate you will have the opportunity with the entire parliamentary group to claim whether it violates the Constitution or not only when there is a law! They have the representatives of the Reformation Bloc. Mr. Slavov, we're listening to your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u262	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Ministers, colleagues! My question on behalf of the Reformation bloc is to Deputy Prime Minister Donchev and concerns Bulgaria's accession to the European Banking Union. This is one of the topics that we included in the Programme Declaration on Government Governance, namely making a political decision to join the European Banking Union in a short time and its supervisory mechanism, the so-called Single Supervisory Mechanism. Mr. Donchev, the reason I asked this question to you is that in recent days there has been speculation on the topic. The media did not specify who pointed out that at this stage such accession was not necessary for Bulgaria and that it almost could be done. I am glad that late yesterday evening the Minister of Finance himself gave a rather similar position, but put a few conventions on which the possible accession to this Single Supervisory Mechanism depends. I think we all understand that it is an additional guarantee that will be given for the stability and security of our banking system, including the bad practices that have led to the KTB problem, will be able to be stopped, and it will be stopped extremely. We in the Reformation Block hope this will also help investigate the KTB case and find the funds that have been drained from this bank. My question to you is what is the government's policy in terms of making a political decision to join the European Banking Union and the Single Supervisory Mechanism? What time does this thing eventually happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u263	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u264	Madam President, Prime Minister, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the name of the economy of parliamentary time, I would like to point out that the repeatedly stated position relating to accession has never been reviewed. This is the shortest possible answer. In addition, I would like to say that we are talking about procedures that have technical, formal, administrative, along with a political side. And things are rarely solved by just one letter from the Bulgarian National Bank or filling out a form from the Ministry of Finance. There are many conversations, even with an element of negotiation that must take place by then. Intensive communication between the institutions in Bulgaria, on the one hand, and the European institutions on the other. There could be a lot of comments. We live in a country like this, everyone has the right to comment on things in a way they think is good. I suggest we don't have to do metaments, that is, comment on the comments of others. There's an official position and it hasn't changed. The fact is that the Bulgarian banking system, as well as supervision regarding it, needs to strengthen trust. A more radical and more successful step than the one we comment on with you, there is no and it has not been reviewed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u265	The line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u266	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. I accept your answer that the government continues to work in this direction and, in this sense, I am pleased and satisfied with it. We of the Reformation bloc are pleased that the government shares this view that, in fact, the European Supervisory Mechanism will be a means that will further help increase confidence in the banking system. We very much hope that you will share the other view that this could be the way to seek clarification of the case, termination of the bad practices of CCB, including finding the drained funds from this bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u267	A hole? You won't use it. On behalf of the group of the Patriotic Front Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u268	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! I would like to begin by congratulating Mr. Kalfin personally that for the first time a minister has been found to solve the problem of children giving birth to children. This is my personal congratulations. I'd like to ask Mr. Prime Minister a question. Dear Prime Minister, it is a public secret that hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian pensioners barely survive with their miserable pensions paid by the NSI. Our mothers and fathers expect the state to take care of their decent old age as well. In this regard, in 2008, the State Fund was established by law to ensure the sustainability of the state pension system, especially known as the Silver Fund. The money in it is accumulated from the revenues from privatisation, concessions, part of the budget surpluses, and naturally, yield. In recent years, however, the proceeds of privatisation have been ridiculously low in this fund, and for surplus income, it cannot be said. However, this same law pays quite serious attention to the possibilities and rules for investing the accumulated funds, which currently constitute 2 billion. 445 million. lv. According to him, the funds of the Silver Fund are invested in compliance with the principles of reliability, profitability, liquidity and diversification. In accordance with art. 23 the long-term investment policy and the Fund's medium-term strategy are updated, reviewed and adopted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u269	Your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u270	In this regard, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you the question, because in recent years the only yield is 43 million of interest on deposits in BNB,...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u271	Numbers cannot be used on argument by art. No. 104, para. 1 of the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u272	...what will the Council of Ministers and you as Chairman take to implement a strategy that will bring profitability and proper management of this 2 and a half billion Bulgarian money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u273	Prime Minister Mr. Borisov for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u274	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleague, this was Djankov's idea, but Mrs. Ninova came out, I don't want to startle her anymore. Yeah, it's really low yield, but security is high. When you're looking for a big yield, that means a bigger risk. That's some money that will practically cover pensions for a month and a half, tops two. But they're still some kind of security, and they keep the fiscal reserve at relatively normal sizes. Of course, I can say we'll think about it, talk about it. Such a noise will rise if we go to talk about the income or the transfer of money from the Silver Fund, that simply as a party that supports us, I do not advise you to do so. That's the noise and the noise if we go... Yes, purely financially, if there is now a financial expert sitting in this place, it will say: "Of course, it is a small yield, if this money is invested or used, instead of taking 3% other money to pay them, or four...."....................we are currently borrowing at a much higher interest rate, and here we have our money. The difference is probably 40 million. Big difference. But at the same time, security forces us to be more conservative in this direction. I suggest that you consider the subject in the Commission in Parliament with the other parliamentary forces. If there's a consensus, I'm ready to talk. Otherwise, if it came from us as a movement, it would be highly speculated about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u275	The line is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u276	Prime Minister, I actually want to tell you that this is not about a small yield. This is already about negative profitability or depreciation of these funds. And I don't think there's a normal person who's afraid that the law has signed off on how these funds should be managed. I offer nothing more than what is written in the same Law. We cannot stand by and devalue this money. You are absolutely right that they will indeed be enough for no more than a month and a half, but we must ensure, first of all, the stability of the pension system; secondly, that we return the trust to this system that it is solvent; and thirdly, that it is with these mechanisms of proper management and realization of income that we are thinking about raising pensioners' pensions. It is hardly a secret to anyone that Bulgarian pensioners have the lowest pensions in the entire European Union. And we don't have to fear the right decisions, the right actions. It's very important that someone made a noise. Well, this guy who makes a fuss and comes out to explain why for three years we don't get a single penny of interest anymore, wanting to make a fuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u277	A hole? I won't. There are now colleagues from the Bulgarian Democratic Center. Mr. Rosen Petrov has the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u278	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Minister! My question is to Mrs. Kuneva, as a power deputy prime minister. It concerns a force service, which is neither NSBOP nor the police, but is also very important, as it is constantly targeted, every day is at work. It's about the Office of Fire Safety. Whether Mrs. Kuneva.. I ask without the slightest irony, is able to introduce us to the general state of this Service at the moment and the policy that is being led to her, as we receive different signals from the unions that there is a shortage of people, of equipment, and firefighters are the ones who save people every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u279	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u280	Thank you. He will, of course, answer your question for two reasons, not because the state of fire safety is part of my duties as co-ordinating Deputy Prime Minister. I assure you that we have a wonderful Interior Minister who knows at every moment what is happening in each of his sub-departmental structures, but I would like to answer you first to prove to you that we are talking and talking daily outside formal coordination. And besides, because I want to make a statement with a political element. This political element relates to the assessment that there are certain areas of professional life in which active trade union activities are explicitly excluded. I very much appreciate what is happening at the moment as a dialogue to improve the work of fire safety, but let me tell you a few facts. First of all, now on the occasion of the floods, we are grateful for everything the Bulgarian firefighters do. I'm familiar with the union demands, and that's why I started with this political assessment. They are, of course, very important because the service works in security, works professionally and this is visible, but we live in a budget deficit and we have to face it directly. We're cutting empty states right now. Abbreviations are everywhere in the administration. Through the empty states, we do everything we can to make sure these cuts are handled lightly. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Bulgarian Fire Department currently has a very good technical security. I know from my colleagues, and we've also spoken in the Council of Ministers that such re-arming with a new Fire Department technique has not been so far. Today Minister Vuchkov told me that we will have the most modern park in Europe! And it seems to me that this should also be appreciated in fairness, and otherwise the unions insist that 1,600 employees be appointed over the nine thousand so far. There's a thousand unoccupied numbers. According to them, there is no way to ensure safety, but I think, and the new technique must be re-examined. I am sure that no one will underestimate the way firefighters work, but we have budget restrictions and we are trying to compensate it with a better technique. By the way, firefighters have their own professional holiday, which I am invited to, and I hope that we will be able to talk informally with them on this subject as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u281	A line, Mr. Petrov? You won't use it. Mrs. Tasheva from Ataka's group [[Elevator bell dings]] He has the floor to develop his question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u282	I have a question for Mr. Deputy Prime Minister of Economic Policy. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the law says that the floor property has two forms of management - General Assembly of Owners and Association of Owners, which is a legal entity. According to art. 17 of the Law on the Management of Floor Property, para. 2, p. 5, The General Assembly shall have the right to decide on renewal, on major repairs and on the use of funds from the European Union funds and/or from the state or municipal budget, grant and subsidy, and/or own funds or other sources of funding by a majority of not less than 67 percent of the ideal parts of the common areas. Article 25 of the same law provides for the same powers for the Association, for the legal person, namely: it is set up for the use of funds from the European Union funds and/or from the state or municipal budget, grants and subsidies, and/or the use of own funds for the purpose of repairing and renovating buildings under floor property regime and so on. In general, the same text has been translated into art. 25. My question is: why do you only allow these multi-family buildings to be registered by the National Programme for the Improvement of Energy Efficiency of Multi-Family Buildings or the so-called "Sanitary Buildings" to be registered by the National Programme for the Improvement of Energy Efficiency of Multi-Family Buildings, and do not recognise the General Assembly as a representative of the owners interested, say, from a similar renovation, which you have announced will be 100% financed for free? What difference do you make between the two, except, of course, the obvious fact that the legal person can be bankrupt and the General Assembly is not. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u283	Ms. Tasheva, this is not about a legal person, but about a person who is a personified person. The BULSTAT Association. [[National Representative Magdalena Tasheva speaks away from the microphones.]] For an answer, Minister Donchev. [[National Representative Meglena Tasheva speaks away from the microphones.]] There is also an association under the Law of Obligations and Contracts! [[Noise and lines in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u284	Madam President, Prime Minister, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, dear Mrs. Tasheva, thank you for your systemic interest in the project for the renovation of multifamily residential buildings [[Applause from GERB]] , as well as for your excellent preparation in the field of regulation. What is the text and subtext of this question: is it in any form during, as you quoted, I take occasion from your words, an association of owners could come to the transfer of ownership, the withdrawal of the dwelling, that I think it is your words, if it is not yours, forgive me for giving them to you? Without being a lawyer, without being a lawyer, neither association nor participation in a non-profit legal entity nor participation in a non-personalised company implies a transfer of ownership. No way! So there is no theoretical or practical hypothesis for anyone to lose their home or even part of it, as someone claims. If it's not you, I beg your pardon. [[Noise and lines.]] Regarding the question, if this was a question and not a finding: why from the point of view of the financing body is required 100% participation of all owners, this has an easy explanation. Practical energy efficiency measures are not possible if at certain stages of construction works no access to each dwelling is ensured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u285	Line, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u286	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you didn't answer my question, and he was: why associations can exclusively apply for renovations, but not general meetings, since under art. 17, para. 2, p. 5 They have the same authority.. can decide to sanitize their block or entrance? And whether you are theoretically suggesting that whether or not a legal person is possible, Madam President, under art. 25 The association is a legal entity established under this law...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u287	There are other articles in other laws, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u288	Whether it can be burdened with burdens, future ones, for example, when your government will no longer be in power and another government has declared your Programme ineffective, it is a question of the future. I just want to say and address Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, this program must be stopped, albeit temporarily, because there are issues concerning the exclusive property of the Bulgarian on his residence. [[(shouts: ……]] which is inviolable under art. 30 of the Constitution, and I'll explain why. Because according to art. 30 he who enters such an association shall not be allowed to leave it until the guarantee period of the sanitization has expired, which shall not be 5 years, but shall be at least 15 or 20 years. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Otherwise, in five years of bail, it's not worth spewing a billion dollars for a sanitization. That is, people will be bound to be partners and bear the burdens that this association may have. And for its termination under the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities, this Law refers to the Commercial Law, which you know gives the liquidator enormous powers to sell the assets of such an association to satisfy its creditors. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Again, I appeal to you to stop, albeit temporarily, the programme until full clarification of property issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u289	A hole, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u290	Dear Mrs. Tasheva, I would love to have a conversation with you, especially when it comes to the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities, because I was historically involved in his writing and I am well aware of the regulations. However, here the questions you have asked and the quoted members hide the basic design or subtext of the question: is anyone in danger of losing their home? No! [[Reply from the People's Representative Magdalena Tasheva.]] Is there any way to secure participation in the property programme? No! [[Reply from the People's Representative Magdalena Tasheva.]] The interesting question here is: what obligations or damages could someone bear if they allowed their dwelling to be renovated? [[Reply from the People's Representative Magdalena Tasheva.]] This question is extremely curious, otherwise questions regarding the program have many, practically every day, and they receive their answers. Thank you. [[(Noise and lines of Ataka.) Applause by GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u291	Last question from the ABB group. Colleagues, please, we have extended the time, and each group is entitled to two questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u292	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Minister! My question won't be military-technical, because hopefully, next week, these questions will be cleared, it's social. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, how do you think the social policy of the government will be designed, which is daily and feels that social is returning to our country? How are you going to design the policy on military personnel - past, present and future? [[Reply from BSP LB.]] Do you have a need for expert expertise, not only from the Defence Committee, but from the purely military people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u293	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u294	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Mihov, the social benefits of the military and the people under the pagon are laid down in the respective laws. No one has any intention of changing and reducing these social benefits in any way. There is a process currently under way, which is with broad consultations related to the pension system and the parameters, including the retirement age. There's really a need to look for expertise. We have already had a meeting with your participation with the commanders of the various types of troops in the Ministry of Defence, with the largest syndicate in the Ministry of Interior. I am ready and I am really looking for your support to continue these conversations. What we do must be in the interests of both the servicemen and understandable to the whole society, without reducing their social benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-04.u295	Would you like to use a line? I won't. With that, today's blitz control is over. [[Applause from GERB.]] Tomorrow's regular plenary session, starting at 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
