ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 50, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that we discuss as a point first for today the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Civil Procedure Code, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of Members of Parliament, and as a point second, first reading of the Draft for Supplement to the Code of Criminal Procedure, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly. Both PPC and PPC amendments are related to the powers of the Prosecution, which requires that they be dealt with urgently. I propose that we vote as point one and point two for today to happen. Voting mode. Vote 151 MPs: 108, Against 19, abstention 24. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CIVIL PROCEEDING CODEX, No 554-01-64, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission's First Voting Report on Legal Affairs. We're listening, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 554-01-64, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 31 March 2015. At its meeting on 1 April 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 554-01-64, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 31 March 2015. The meeting was attended by Mrs Emilia Nedeva, member of the Supreme Council of Laws. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Daniel Kirilov. He pointed out that the submitted bill is the result of the will of several political forces to adopt adequate measures to protect the public and public interest. The Bill aims to enable the prosecutor to file claims and to be a party to civil proceedings to protect the interests of the state, municipalities or citizens benefiting from the special protection of the law. People's representatives Filip Popov, Kiril Kalfin, Danail Kirilov, Petar Slavov, Svilen Ivanov, Dimitar Delchev, Yavor Notev, Cetin Kazak, Desislava Atanasova, Hristian Mitev and Lachezar Nikiforov took part in the discussion. In the course of the discussion, some of them claimed inability to support the Bill in this form, while the others agreed on the need to take measures to protect the state and public interest, indicating that between the first and second votes the terms used in the proposed provisions should be refined, to specify the competent prosecutor and to specify the powers of the court. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes for the Council, with no votes against the House, and 3 votes abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to support a draft amendment and supplement to the Civil Procedure Code, No 554-01-64, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 31 March 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u3	On behalf of the importers?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u4	May I, Madam President?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u5	Not only can you, Mr. Kirilov, but it's desirable.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u6	Thank you, Madam President. This Bill has the task of establishing a common principle approach in determining the active legitimization of the prosecution in civil court proceedings. In accordance with art. 127 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria one of the main human rights functions of the prosecution is to monitor compliance with the law. The methods by which it implements these constitutional powers are detailed without limiting the scope of the activity. The Constitution shall not determine the specific cases and the nature of the laws granting the prosecutor the right to participate in civil and administrative matters. As a body of law having constitutional competence, including participation in civil matters, the prosecution cannot be restricted by law on its participation in a legal dispute concerning the conclusion and execution of transactions of the State and the municipalities in breach of the requirements of civil laws and of good faith if the parties have unlawful conduct and are not interested in being prosecuted against transactions concluded between them. Any transaction to which the State or municipality is a party and which damages their property interest constitutes an unjustified legal fact which is legally intolerable and must be prosecuted by the prosecutor. Where State, municipal or public interest is infringed, threatened or affected, the latter should be protected by the competent authority in due order. However, if the relevant authorities do not exercise their power or exercise inactivity in the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of the State and the municipalities, there is a real danger of damage to their property or the enrichment of other legal entities accordingly. Such procedural actions or omissions of the relevant state or municipal authorities and officials may result in adverse property consequences for the State and municipalities. It is precisely for the protection of the state and public interest and the foundations of the rule of law that the prosecutor has been given legal opportunity to participate in civil and administrative matters in the cases envisaged by law. The Law on Amendment and Supplement to the GPC, in particular § 14....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... A restriction was imposed on the initiation and participation in civil cases by a prosecutor only in cases specifically defined in special laws. This legislative change ended a good tradition, leading its beginning from the Civil Court Procedure Act, which lasted for 105 years and proved its effectiveness. A comparative analysis of existing legislation in the countries of the European Community shows that in France, Belgium, Italy, Spain, some of the Swiss cantons, Lithuania, Belarus and others, the prosecutor may make claims to protect the public interest. The proposed Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the PDK is the subject of establishing a common principle approach in determining the active legitimization of the prosecution in civil court proceedings. The aim is to protect the public and public interest by strictly defined procedural rules against unlawful acts or omissions of authorities and officials of the State and municipalities which do not constitute a crime, but whose legal effects harm the State, the municipalities and a certain part of the citizens placed under special protection of the law. Anticorruption effect will also be achieved. The unlawful acts or omissions of the central or local authorities concerned, which have been granted the right to enjoy and dispose of state or municipal property, shall contain the prerequisites for corruption and may result in irreparable damage to the State and municipalities. The procedural inactivity of the relevant authorities for the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of the State and the municipalities leads to an extension of the scope of unjustified enrichment to the benefit of private entities at the expense of some of the State's or municipalities' assets. It is therefore necessary by law to arrange for the procedural intervention of the prosecution for the protection of the rights and interests of the state and municipalities which are violated, threatened or affected by the inaction of their authorities. The bill regulates as protected goods the legal order and security, the property rights of the state and municipalities and enables the prosecutor to start a civil case and to enter a pending process if he considers that the state, municipal or public interest imposes this. For the reason that the Law on the Judicial Tribunal defines the powers of the prosecutor only in relation to the administrative court proceedings, the bill also provides for the regulation of this power of the prosecutor and the Law on the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u7	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Debates are open. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to participate to give a sign. Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u8	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My question is more of a point to Mr. Kirilov. In our presented report of the First Voting Group, under which you signed, Mr. Kirilov, at the end of the text statement, it says that after the discussion held the Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I've been listening very carefully. You have read: "With 14 votes for abstention and 3." What's the truth? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u9	Read the other law, Mr. Simeonov. Mr. Simeonov, you're under the other law on point two. You're getting ahead of yourself. [[Radio.]] Are there any speeches? Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u10	Mr. Kirilov speaks on behalf of the importer. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I stand before you only to say that the BSP group left Bulgaria will support the change in the Law for amendment and supplement of the Civil Procedure Code. Its aim is to bring the prosecution back in these cases where the state interest needs to be protected, in this case it is indicated: . The interests of citizens who enjoy special protection of the law............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Let me recall what is also noted in the motives of the Bill. Just before Christmas 1997, the then right-wing majority in parliament, today's successors of which are the Reformation Block, revoked this power of the prosecution. This was done for a reason just on the eve of the beginning of the big privatisation in Bulgaria, despite the firm resistance of the left in the face of the BSP, despite the reluctance of the then chief prosecutor and the warnings. Today, when this process is almost over, when we have the sad reckoning of the transition and the billions lost by the Bulgarian economy as a result of the privatisation, in many cases a gift is offered when this majority votes for the annulment of § 8, in which the state cannot yet impose collateral for outstanding liabilities in the course of the privatisation, a recovery of this power is proposed today. It is offered well, but very late and with very little effect. And perhaps in some cases it will be able to serve to prevent future abuse, but the great losses are present. I say this because we made such warnings when this model of health reform was introduced, and we proposed another way to streamline the health system. We've said that on many other occasions. And I stress it not to backtrack it, but to understand that forward-looking policy requires you to anticipate the consequences before they occur, but not to fight when only a small part of them can be prevented or removed, so today Parliament, I hope, will support with a significant majority this change in the Civil Procedure Code. And let it be used rationally, let specifics be made before the second reading to see whether the scope of the envisaged entities, whose protection is offered here, is not too great to make the prosecution concentrate on the most important cases in which it protects the public and the public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u11	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, to the Commission of the Reformation Bloc, we have not supported these proposals in the GPC and have warned that so formulated and proposed are not in line with the motives and objectives that importers claim to be actually pursuing with them. We have put a lot of questions that still do not make it clear whether the importer predicts that they will be corrected between the two readings, what will happen at all. But the most important question that I am going to put before you is: in recent weeks, there have already been many, not to say the accusations, but the accusations by the public that Parliament is adopting extraordinary legislation. I am afraid that we are currently doing something like this, we are restoring the powers of the prosecution that she had during the communist regime, and people have blamed that these powers have almost bordered on the Stalinist model of the prosecutor's office. I ask you: what do these changes have to do with the KTB case, which is juicy as an example to bring them in? How exactly will these changes in the GPC, which concern civil law relations, help solve the case CTB? It's not about making past deals, it's not about past events. Here, by the way, that on the left, expressed support surprises me, but I hope this lights up the red light of GERB who supports these proposals after the Commission first had expressed reservations. Now all of a sudden, they're supporters of no appeal. This is also disturbing for us from the Sectoral Block, but we never understand: how will these problems help solve the case with KTB, how will it help to return this money to the state, which is drained from there and returned to all these deposits that have lost their savings? First of all, we do not understand how these changes will help the prosecution to intervene and attract to criminal responsibility the persons responsible for this drain, which is actually her job? In this case, what do we do? We're giving some powers very vaguely clear what he's going to do. The question arises: where does the local government go? How will the prosecution know better what the problems of municipalities are than the municipalities themselves? And what happens if municipalities have filed claims and suddenly a prosecutor comes in and says: "You don't understand anything about what you've filed as a case. And now I'm standing here in your shoes and I'm representing you. You're gonna sit by and watch because I can do this thing? All these issues are not resolved in this Bill, and I strongly urge you to think before we support it. He suffers from serious vices. And one more thing that we have pointed out to the Legal Committee the most logical thing, if such powers the legislator wants to give to any state authority, is to give them to the Minister of Finance. It is he who represents the state in the civil process. He is the one who knows well the problems of the municipalities, given that every municipality or almost everyone receives an annual subsidy from the state budget. Why shouldn't the Minister of Finance deal with these matters, and we're bringing the prosecution back in? By the way, I did not hear a firm opinion of the Prosecutor's Office........................ that they will be employed in such a matter, and how this corresponds to all the speeches that have been made in recent months and years by the highest representatives of the Prosecutor's Office... that they have been turned into a mailbox and each brings them everything and all kinds of cases. How will they cope with this extra work, but first of all, will they look at the main tasks of the Code of Criminal Procedure precisely to attract accused persons suspected of committing a crime? All these things are unclear and there is no way to support this bill. I conclude with the fact that it is right that such and serious legislative initiatives are appropriate. I turn to colleagues from GERB, to discuss them in the Development Council, because they are radical measures and they cannot be accepted and voted simply, just like that, signed on knee, imported and within two days almost to be supported or rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u13	First line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Slavov, you have actually asked questions to which you know the answer in the debate at the Legal Commission. Only part of them will I succeed, perhaps I should, unfortunately, and further speak. Yes, we foresee serious changes between first and second readings, including with regard to entities whose interest could be protected in this case. From now on, I will say our main proposal, at least to our group, will be to reduce it only to the state interest, to drop municipalities and other persons, and with regard to municipalities we will refer to the established legislation, practice, European legislation and traditions in local self-government. In fact, however, the collisions you claim are not even available when it comes to local authorities. As a good and practicing lawyer you know that there is no obstacle for the holder of interest to be a country and for the prosecutor to be a controlling or completely independent party in the process. I have specifically read this part of the reasoning that contradicts your argument about Stalinist legislation. No, that power has been there, and I've been stressing it for 106 years. [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov.]] For 106 years, from the first Civil Procedure Act. I also do not share the arguments to transfer this power and to make an analogy with the powers of the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u15	Second line? A hole, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Kirilov, I have listened carefully to your reply, but I have not heard the answer to the basic question................ how will this help the case of KTB, which is juicy everywhere that these measures are actually seeking its resolution?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u17	You've already helped the court yesterday.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u18	Including on TV studios, I saw a variety of representatives of parties supporting the ruling majority explaining how this is exactly for this case and how it almost was resolved, even thinking of canceling these measures. However, I am here again paying attention to this, unfortunately, does not solve these problems. With regard to the Stalinist model, colleagues, older practitioners of lawyers, pointed out to me that one of the main activities of the prosecutor's office at the time was on such an active model, which had been in place before 10 November, was to interfere with the Law on the property of citizens and to pursue people who had more than one property. You remember these restrictions then. What are we gonna turn the D.A. into? In a mailbox of people having some kind of dispute with their neighbors and going to melt them down how, you know, there the state or municipal interest was threatened because you hadn't paid the local tax, so to intervene and stop his transfer deal for example to the motor vehicle. I think it's gonna lead to absurdity in this kind of way. I urge you to think very seriously, if this is accepted, between the two readings to be fixed. With colleagues, I have had the opportunity to speak to the only opportunity to think of any support between the two readings if these powers are considered to go to the Minister of Finance or to another body, but this is not the work of the prosecution. Once again, I pay attention to her main task is to pursue the individuals and to attract to criminal responsibility those who are suspected of committing a crime. This is her main task, which is why we are talking within the framework of judicial reform that these powers should be strengthened and that the society suffers the most. The prosecution has at least so many powers to intervene, including in similar relationships, but when there is suspicion of a crime committed and simply to interfere with the fuzzy explanation in defence of the public interest, it seems really unserious and dangerous to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u19	To speak, Mr. Kanev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! A few more arguments against the proposed bill. First of all, there are situations in which such fire legislation is being imposed and we have already several times already, mainly in relation to the case of a Corporate Commercial Bank, adopted similar texts. My conviction as a lawyer and as a MP is that it is absolutely unacceptable for such fire legislation to enter the GPC or the PPC, because it affects an unlimited number of cases with unpredictable consequences, so let us abstain from special laws. Secondly, several specific problems of this provision. Firstly, the prosecution is far away, far from having the capacity to include itself in all civil matters in which some public interest is abstractly affected. The D.A.'s office couldn't do it, but it didn't do it at all when he had to appear in all administrative cases. Therefore, in a previous parliament, without any involvement of our political power or its representatives, the involvement of the prosecutor in administrative matters was reduced to much narrower limits. Excuse me, there were some prosecutors who hadn't read anything of the case because they were in debt, mumbled something there, the court didn't pay attention to them at all and didn't listen to them. Now that the cases of administrative cases involving the prosecutor are severely limited, at least the people who appear from the prosecution have read their case. Here we will need drastic new appointments, an extremely large increase in costs and consequently a very sharp removal of the crying level of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office with these new appointments. There is no one to appear in these cases in the first place. Secondly, how public interest in civil disputes is defended is clear under the current laws. There is a clear responsibility of the state and its authorities, with the general competence of the Minister of Finance, of the Minister of Regional Development and often of the powers of the regional governors. What are we doing? Take down the responsibility of these people who are currently carrying it and tell them: "Don't worry, in these cases will be the prosecutor, the responsibility is his. " For the figure of the prosecutor who has the right to appeal without being involved in the proceedings, I don't even want to talk about it. And once it is intended to be able to be included as a participant in the proceedings, to provide that it can appeal without being a participant, that is, to break the legal certainty of the civil process, with the expectation of some figure which is not clear whether it will be notified, but it will have the right to appeal, it is merely professional insanity. I'm telling this to my colleagues who are importers. How will a person who does not receive notification of the judgment have the right to appeal? Since when does this person's time to appeal is a very important issue? Finally, let's face the main problem, because these are very important, but at a more serious capacity of the prosecution, which is not there, are overcome. How did we decide that the key guard of public interest in Bulgaria would be an institution which for decades proved to be a complete failure in the protection of public interest? We return to the rights of other state authorities in the civil process. How many charges are there from the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office when these responsibilities were not properly met by the Minister of Finance, by the Minister of Regional Development, by the district governors? How many times has the prosecution noticed severe deficits in the work of officials with huge powers in the civil process? Count on the fingers of one hand. The cases in which he was older were on a petty occasion the prosecution failed in its current functions are innumerable in Bulgaria. The findings of the prosecution's failure to comply with its current activities are innumerable. Comments on the uncontrolled nature of the Prosecutor's Office in Bulgaria only from this tribune have come from all political forces for more than a decade. So instead of reforming the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, which has a huge need, instead of helping it perform its inherent functions, which we currently have under Law, we are throwing at it a huge set of functions that it has no capacity to perform first, and secondly, let's face it. I, unlike my colleague Savov, do not see what can convince me between first and second readings to support this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u21	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u22	Madam President, honourable Members, the Patriotic Front Group will support the proposed amendments to the Civil Procedure Code. I would remind everyone that we are currently discussing the Project in its philosophy and basic idea. We're not at second reading. Here a lot of comments were made on the substance of the texts. First of all, I would like to point out that the prosecutor's figure in the civil trial is not new. It wasn't introduced yesterday. The Law on Civil Procedure also introduced the Law on Civil Procedure, as it was said. We can hardly accuse its creators of any addiction to certain totalitarian ideologies. It was subsequently extended by the Civil Procedure Code Act of 1952. In 1997 this power was very limited to the extent of annulment. I cannot agree with a part of what my fellow Members have expressed here that the prosecutor has no reason to participate in the civil process. My fellow Members, on the contrary, the prosecutor has his reasons. It was mentioned by the esteemed Chair of the Legal Commission Mr. Kirilov this is art. 127 of the Constitution. That's where we're assigning the D.A. to exercise general oversight of legality. Once we have given him such supervision with a constitutional norm, since in the Law on the Judiciary, we explicitly record that the prosecution exercises oversight of legality, protection of the public interest and the rights of citizens, it is appropriate to give the necessary tools to the prosecution in order to fulfil this constitutional, respectively legal obligation introduced also in the Law on the Judiciary. We need to distinguish common supervision of legality from maintaining the prosecution in the criminal trial, which is a separate function. We also have a separate constitutional norm for this and a separate norm in the Law on the Judiciary. In order for the prosecutor, respectively, to exercise and implement this constitutional norm, it is necessary for the Civil Procedure Code to establish the necessary instruments so that both the constitutional norm and the law on the judiciary are implemented so that the prosecution can protect the state interest. Of course, I will join the criticism made regarding the circle of protected subjects. I believe that municipalities should be excluded from this circle and should remain only the state. We will make the relevant proposals for changes in this connection between first and second readings. I believe that the rules allowing the prosecution to participate in secondary proceedings without taking part in the first instance of cases are inappropriate and should be dismissed. I believe that the court's obligation to notify the prosecution, given that we are giving in the previous paragraph an opportunity for the prosecutor to intervene and initiate PPC claims, is also not well thought out. We'll make a proposal for his change. In general, we support the philosophy of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u23	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The movement for rights and freedoms will also support this Bill, as we are convinced that all possible efforts must be made by the legislator to ensure the protection of public and state interest when it is threatened, regardless of what line and by which entities. Our principled position from the outset was that when state interest is threatened, when the state's property interests are impaired, all possible working mechanisms must be found to protect this interest. We have looked over the years at countless examples that other authorized state authorities and institutions for one reason or another failed or did not wish to defend the state interest to the full. A clear example in this regard was the overall privatisation process, other important transactions in which the state was involved. The withdrawal of the power of the Prosecutor's Office to intervene in these cases by retreating as a party to a civil dispute or initiating an appeal against such types of transactions has prevented all these years from protecting this interest to the end. It is one thing when we expect the prosecution to post-factum when a deal is closed to seek guilt, to seek criminal liability from this or that official, to collect fit evidence of the criminal court incriminating specific officials in crime, another is when the prosecution at an earlier stage, when the transaction itself can be appealed in civil law, to intervene and to try to protect the state interest. Here is the huge difference, honourable Members of the Reformation Block, between your vision of the role of the prosecution, and ours, which is embedded in the constitutional text of art. 127. I don't think we should mix the two bills here. You don't have to talk about it in general. We are now discussing only the amendments to the Civil Procedure Code. When we get to the next PPC amendment bill, then we can talk about the arguments that you mentioned now. But specifically in this bill, I see nothing very scandalous. This bill isn't a conjuncture. It is not only with the current case of bankruptcy and the draining of KTB. This is a principle issue that needs to be resolved. The prosecution must be restored the opportunity to participate in the defence of the state interest and in civil and administrative matters, something which was taken away from it in 1997. Of course, I also share some of the criticisms that have been expressed. Some of the texts need to be dropped, some of the faces need to be dropped. There must be only protection of the state's interest. The proposed power must be removed, i.e. the court's obligation to notify the prosecution of any dispute pending before the court. The prosecution itself must be able to monitor and assess when to intervene, when to intervene as a party in the case and initiate a lawsuit. Yes, there were criticisms about the fact that, you see, the prosecution had no capacity. Of course there is no capacity to monitor the overall civil-legal turnover. But then, when there is information, then, when it determines, in a particular case, when it considers that there is a danger of disturbing the state interest, it must have a legal opportunity to intervene. That is why we will support this Bill, and, of course, between first and second readings we will participate in the efforts to improve the text in such a way as to prevent criticism and concern from the opponents of the Bill that it can be abused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u25	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. First line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kazak, I listened to you very carefully. You mentioned the KTB case, and that's why I replicated you. Tell me exactly how these legislative changes will help resolve the case CTB with the drained funds, the return of the drained funds and so on? How, exactly? Tell us in simple words: here, this thing will be used in this way to calm all the people in this room who are worried and outside this room. That's what I'm asking you to do quite a bit. The other thing. I'll remind you, because you're one of the collaborators. There's-there's not two weeks how we adopted the amendments to the Bankruptcy Act. You remember, that's when a task force was formed. People from all parliamentary groups responded, sat together, thought, worked together, personally came the Prime Minister at one of the meetings, commented on it and finally came out with a bill that I think is doing a good job. We have entered the figure of the temporary trade union, which is already functioning in fact. A consensus has been reached. Things have been supported in plenary. Why is this being done this way right now? I also can't figure that out on a knee from today to tomorrow, without clear arguments on how this will help to solve the KTB case. See, this thing doesn't make sense. One more thing in the context of the KTB case. It's been heard from the National Revenue Agency that it's been activated, that it's been put on hold, that it's been banned from the assets. That is to say, what worried us is that there would be no instrumental transactions in these set-ups, if it were a fact, obviously there is no danger. I still cannot understand in this situation how these legislative changes will help in this case to resolve this case, if that is really the reason? If it's another one, tell us the other reason what it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u27	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u28	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, keeping to myself the concern of any extraordinary legislation I have two questions for Mr. Kazak regarding his statement. The first is because we have heard that the prosecutor will make at his own discretion when to engage and how to engage, I ask: where will the lensing of this assessment be and how far will the subjectivism in making such a decision be included or not included? My second question is: in the introduction of the prosecution into this civil process, where and how will the control of the actions of the prosecution itself be carried out, so that we do not have arbitraryness and do not get what we normally say: The path to hell is paved with good intentions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Kazak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u30	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Slavov, you started your line by saying: "I listened to you very carefully, but from the way you went on, I was under the impression that you didn't listen carefully. I explicitly mentioned that this particular bill is not so closely related to the specific case CTB, but is a principled bill. Principled in its approach to restore a power revoked by the prosecution and it is not so much related to the specific case, but in general to the overall history of Bulgaria since 1997, when after the withdrawal of this power we have looked at hundreds and thousands of examples in which the public interest, in general opinion of the public, was not protected in the process of privatisation, and in other cases. And then the other state authorities, the other institutions, in principle, every state institution is called upon to defend the state interest, failed to do this task. And the lack of opportunity of the prosecution to intervene in this case, to compensate for this reluctance of the relevant other state authorities to intervene, led to the general perception in society that the public interest was not protected. So specifically, this Bill, I repeat, is not so relevant to the particular case. Let's, when we get to the next one, then let's talk about the specific case. We're also talking about the KTB case. This saga is not over yet, dear Mr. Slavov. So let us create a preventive mechanism that will prevent other similar hazards related to attempts to continue the secondary draining of CCB-related companies and companies, not specifically CCB-related companies, but related companies, from being implemented. Mr. Ermenkov, I think you're mixing the powers of the prosecution with those of the court. First, prosecutors and in this bill, including the law, are only entitled to appeal certain transactions, to enter into a dispute before the court. The one who will assess the relevance, the correctness of the prosecution's intervention, the correctness of its position is the Bulgarian court. So the D.A. doesn't have any powers of attorney. It can only contribute with an argument for the state interest to be protected during an already existing legal and judicial dispute before the Bulgarian court. It's the only power we provide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u31	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. I give the floor for the speech of Mr. Yavor Notev, Vice-President of the National Assembly and MP from the group of Ataka.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u32	Thank you for your opportunity, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will start perhaps a little naive for a speech from this platform, but it is not fair that this proposal be tabled in plenary in this order in which it was tabled today to be addressed in this order after the criticisms, after the assessments that have been heard and during the discussion at the National Assembly's Legal Committee, and with regard to the feedback that has been heard in the professional communities, and also in the media about what the importers are trying to do. But that's what I'm putting aside. Perhaps this is not an argument that will remove the item from the agenda. It is not fair, however, in yet another aspect. He's been mentioned and he feels like he's in the air. It is not fair, because there is a specific objective here, which gives reason for the Law for amending the Civil Procedure Code to be defined as exceptional. As for those who criticize his legal and technical imperfections, they allow risk importers to be accused of being individuals and entities who are trying to hide the truth about CCB. It is precisely because of the targeted clear objective and precisely because it is said that this law will be a panacea from now on to be managed honestly, correctly, legally with the help and actions of the prosecution, excuse me, but I am skeptical about this. We want to reinstate the D.A.'s authority, take away what year? It's been heard several times since 1997. I recall, 1997! This is the month of April 2015. Do you realize what we're talking about? What are these historical references and desires to turn back time? Well, during that time, in the formats of various national meetings, the Parliamentary group of "Attack" submitted proposals to restore these powers to the prosecution, for real levers to stop transactions that have damaged the interest of the state, the Bulgarian citizens and whose price we are now paying. Yes, but then everyone was of the opinion that the prosecution had no place in this order and thus that the instruments proposed by the current legislation was sufficient to respond to its constitutional position and obligation to protect the state interest. From the words of chief prosecutors, in the meantime changed their mandate and as individuals, of course, different, we heard the same thing in Bulgaria, that the prosecution was overloaded with expectations that the words of the prosecution to be called and self-serving have already become templates that we hear daily from the media and in all this atmosphere, of course, such proposals did not go, sounded exotic and were rejected by a majority depending on who is managing Now we're talking about the fact that KTB is the reason to solve a crisis. Then, let me share my feeling that the proposals are an expression of a guilty conscience first, because which is not for solving this crisis in the proposed way, which, in turn, is a legal premature child, he is the bad one, he may not want to support solving issues of essential interest. But let me also have one more suspicion and doubt: if someone brings in and passes this bill, he probably hopes to head up the opportunity to work on this problem and therefore to be the first fighter for justice and for state interest, to some extent more informed and guiding and guiding the processes that will have to run in this procedure. Well, then it becomes clear to me the speed and this agreement that we will be observing just now in the vote between the large parliamentary groups. Perhaps the race goes with the ultimate goal of each of them finding themselves in a similar more favourable position. However, by stating that I share all the criticisms of a legal nature that have been stated here completely because they are fully justified, I warn you that we are about to adopt a law that is indeed a misunderstanding and an underworked text unworthy of its discussion in plenary. Thus no bill can be tabled, especially after the warning that has come about it. We cannot rely on a proposal between first and second readings, because this makes the first reading of the bill meaningless, which is Parliament's obligation. What are we doing here? We are getting some promises, vague in terms of content and direction, just to make a move on the follow-up steps of the procedure. In any case, it is not possible to support a text which the prosecutor proposes to include in trials in which he has not participated in the first instance. It is not possible without a clear concreteisation of its criteria on which it will determine the interest of the state, of municipalities and citizens, to give it an instrument in its hands to reverse the process, to influence the outcome accordingly. Note the text that has been mentioned, but has not been fully clarified to you. The court informs the prosecutor when it finds it necessary and calls him to the Chamber. The court calls the prosecutor to the court. Excuse me, there are principles of civil trial, there are principles in law at all, the court is impartial, the court is objective, but the court calls the prosecutor. Well, let's go to the court to call the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, so that it can influence one side or the other and help in other ways. Don't! This cannot be a text from a law, from a code, and a code that governs equal relations in the civil process. I will not stop to offend the prosecution institution on the specifics of civil and commercial matters. I'm saying it from the first person, singular. I have a specialization in another area of law, and I assure you that the matter is heavy enough to be in the power of a prosecutor who has spent his entire life engaged professionally in quite other proceedings. Leaving the management of this activity in the hands of the prosecutor and, at his discretion, is really irresponsible. This, of course, is in addition to the other legal and technical imperfections of the submitted bill. He is not ready for the hall, he should not be supported at first reading and we have no way of doing so. By the way, returning to the first words that I shared with you, the first concerns and little memories of the time during which the prosecutor was really unable to react more acutely to the morning robbery, as a result of which the Bulgarian people, the Bulgarian citizen, became impoverished to the extent of today's miserable existence and existence, in Ataka, we will consider the possibility, if, as it will obviously happen, this law is adopted at first reading, between the two readings to submit proposals to supplement this bill in these parts, which in time were rejected as an idea of the possibility of revision of the transactions that I have in mind when I speak about the robbery, and these ideas of ours will be discussed in this Chamber as proposals made between first and second reading. Then clearly clearer, more prominent will be the criterion for those who are fond of the public interest, for the interests of the citizens, for the property that has been stolen and stolen and of which not everything, but at least it can come back and something else can be protected. This is what we see as the only opportunity to use the procedure in which we are involved as members of the current parliament, in a way which, of course, we do not share and appreciate as dishonest, dishonest, on the verge of parliamentary rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u33	Thank you, Mr. Notev. There are no others. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Given that we are giving very high powers to the prosecution, I think we should invite the Attorney General here to make a statement and hear from him personally if the prosecution actually has the capacity to cover the powers we give and whether he can carry out all this thing legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Any other colleagues for speeches? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov. I assume that yours will be brought to the knowledge of the President of the National Assembly and the Chief Prosecutor will be called to the House.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, as we have already expressed our opinion from the Patriotic Front, we will support at first reading the proposed bill for amendment of the GPC, but it is still right and in what you said, Mr. Notev, there is a lot of content and a lot of meaning, but we must not forget that the Bulgarian Constitution has replaced the prosecution's obligation to follow and uphold legality. Absolutely right are also colleagues from the Reformation Bloc that it is really in great doubt whether the prosecution has this capacity, because if I have to share my modest experience with regard to administrative matters, I must tell you that there is indeed a serious failure on the part of the prosecution, but, on the other hand, only a few weeks ago we also saw amendments to the Privatization Act and post-privatization control and it is hardly right to forget that in fact one of the biggest robberies of Bulgaria, of the Bulgarian state, happened through criminal privatization. Personally, I have the hope that it is through these changes that the prosecution will eventually start defending, as it should protect the state's interest in this particular direction, and not just in the case of CCB, which...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u37	Please, quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u38	...is so viewed as an example of these legislative changes. If § 8 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act is repealed, this means that the State has absolutely no mechanism to carry out and protect its interest. I said it and then, I'll say it now: if at first reading you drop § 8...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u39	Please be quiet in this room, colleagues! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u40	... Bulgaria and the Bulgarian state will lose exactly 200 million. We have already tabled amendments in this direction, but if the prosecution does not have the opportunity that it had before 1944, to be honest, when there was no communist regime, and there was a completely different regime of governance, we are practically depriving the state of any one... I am aware that, on the other hand, there is a very large amount of power in the hands of the prosecution, which is, in my opinion, specialized only in criminal law. I hope that lawyers in parliament and thinking people between first and second reading must clear all these texts in order to really have one precise legislation in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u41	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a speech, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I will ask you in today's Friday that we are not so distracted because this bill is extremely important. I have been hesitant whether to abstain or to vote against it, but after hearing what the debate is here, I can not give a very serious sign, but I am telling you that I am going to vote directly against this law. I do not see how it can be corrected between first and second readings. What are we gonna fix for him? I begin with the first major and important issue on this bill. Why the D.A.? The State interest, as far as the fissure is concerned, is protected by the executive power in the face of the Minister of Finance. Those here who take us back in the years, I would like to remind them that before and after 1989 there were always state lawyers in the Ministry of Finance who were involved in monitoring civil turnover and entering these cases where there is state interest. If you want something to write, let us give power to the Minister of Finance, although I think there is no need for a special amendment of the law in order for him to exercise those powers. Mr. Stoilov, it's good to hear, because you want to bring us back to that notorious art. 27 of the old GPC. Look, it's nice to think about the state's interest, but this is extraordinary legislation. Apart from that, let us open and look closely at the Constitution, which everyone, or those who support the bill, quoted. The main function of the prosecutor's office is to attract to criminal responsibility those who committed crimes, that is, what we want to give is something out of the ordinary, something out of the ordinary. Whether there's a capacity I can't tell. As a reminder, I will quote before 1989 the prosecutors were just under a thousand, and now they are just under two thousand. I don't know what the effect of this increase in the prosecution's office is. By the way, not that this is much of an argument, but about these heavy scandals during the year, related to bank failures, privatizations and so on, tell me a criminal trial that ended with a conviction. Tell me one thing on a case. That is, in its main function, the prosecution has not done any work, now we want to give it, and so quickly, this power. This is not serious, guys! Apart from starting civil proceedings, to engage in proceedings. Who will control this process?! And when I make a comparison here with the Minister of Finance, I would like to tell you the most important fact that the executive power is subject to parliamentary control, while the prosecution, ladies and gentlemen, is not subject to any control. You want us to give this power to the Prosecutor's Office to initiate civil proceedings, to step into civil proceedings and to no one to explain why it does so. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u43	Please, the colleagues on the left for silence!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u44	This bill is an absolute legal nonsense. Please do not be offended by colleagues from GERB because you are the importers. For years, parliament has been accused of being a rubber seal of executive power. Excuse me, there have been three bills tabled in the last two weeks that have been made by the judiciary. There's a separation of powers. Will parliament become a rubber seal of the judiciary, I ask? Is that what's happening now?! If we want there to be a real separation of powers, we need to understand what we are doing with these bills. I do not want to go into detail with regard to the powers of the prosecution and the possible powers to intervene in the civil process, but let us see who these institutions and bodies are, which should protect the public interest in the first place. This is first of all the legislative and executive powers. Forensics should be impartial, not putting her in that kind of fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u45	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Slavov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Bloc, I ask for a half hour's rest in connection with and the procedural proposal that we have made so that, if the Attorney General wishes, he can really come and address this very important issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u47	I'm giving it till 10:30. [[Loud noise, lines and excitement.]] Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u48	Dear Mr. President, in the manner of conduct, if you want to accept it, but in 20 minutes there is a regular rest, so there is no way to ask for a break now
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u49	Colleagues, I'm consulting the regulations. The session continues until 10:30 and then there will be a 30-minute recess. Are there any other statements? If there are no other speeches, I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs, we are entering the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u50	We are voting at first reading the Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. Vote 131 MPs: 103, against 11, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Re-vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u51	Madam President, I ask for a re-vote, I and my fellow Members have not had the opportunity to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u52	Revoting! Vote 151 MPs: 119, against 15, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u53	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u54	Come in for a procedure, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u55	Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose that the deadline for proposals between first and second readings be three days. [[BSP LB.]] All colleagues from the parliamentary groups, after the debate in the Legal Committee, said how ready they are with the changes, with the proposals. We have stated categorically, I would say, a one-way will to change on some of the key issues in the bill. Please put to the vote a proposal for a period of three days for proposals between first and second readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u56	Back-up proposal.....
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u57	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, I am making a reverse proposal to extend the deadline by one week. Our arguments are as follows. There have been many words here, how to tell you, cautious I cannot find the right word, but in any case there have been intentions and statements that there should be amendments that people intend to read this very carefully and not quickly as it happened. I request that the importers and the management of the National Assembly be corrected and taken into account that this is a National Assembly and that everyone has the right to his own opinion and must be respected. In order to bring additions and amendments to the proposed bill, I ask you to agree to vote on an extension of the deadline and not quickly adopted laws, as many times happens, which then do not work or work in the opposite direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u58	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. This is essentially a new proposal which I will propose to vote on the order of the requests made under both procedures. First, I put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's proposal to reduce the deadline for proposals between first and second readings on the Bill to three days. Vote 157 MPs: 93 against 49, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Once there is a decision to shorten the deadline, it becomes unacceptable for your proposal, Professor. Stanilov, for extension. We move on to the next bill, namely: LAWPRODUCTION OF THE PROCESSUAL CODEX, No 554-01-63, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u59	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u60	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With regard to the bill so adopted just minutes ago and the consultations we made with the co-owners, I would like to state on behalf of the co-owners that we are withdrawing this bill. I am convinced that with the debate held just minutes ago, I believe that between first and second readings the objectives of the changes that will be made can be achieved.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u62	You're withdrawing the PPC?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u63	Yes, the PPC is retreating.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u64	The Code of Criminal Procedure is withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u65	In the case of a withdrawn bill, it is automatically removed from the viewing point. [[Applause from GERB.]] Moving on to the next item on the agenda, it is: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CIVIL AIRCRAFT. Before that, however, one communication, colleagues: On 2 April 2015 received and distributed to the Members of the National Assembly a general draft of the bills amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure adopted on the first vote on 25 March 2015. The draft was drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote, which shall be until 9 April 2015 inclusive. Turns out there's another message: The National Assembly received Decision No 279 on 24 March 2015, which adopted Opinion on compliance with the rules of competition of provisions of the Law on Radio and Television, the Law on Electronic Communications and the Copyright and Related Rights Act and Decision No 280 of 24 March 2015, which adopted Opinion on compliance with the rules of competition of the rules of the general duration of advertising in BNT and BNR, including provisions of the Law on Radio and Television. The decisions, together with their motives, are published in the Commission's electronic register for Protection of Competition. The materials are provided to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and to the Committee on Culture and Media. Report for the second reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act. Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Please, on the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova, Director of the Department of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mr. Georgi Peev, Director General of the State Enterprise.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u67	Please vote on the procedural proposal made. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the guests. We're listening, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u68	The Law on Civil Aviation is amended and supplemented by the Law on Civil Aviation. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u69	Please also report the paragraphs 1 to 5 including those supported by an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u70	Paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 by importer are supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u71	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Madam President, I'll start with a question for you, and you, if you want, answer me. In your opinion, what should happen to a paragraph in which the reasons proposed to the National Assembly do not respond to the truth mislead the MPs and in the process of voting between the first and second readings proved to be invalid, supported by a document from the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology and officially recognised by the importers themselves in the Commission. There is therefore a proposal put forward with some reasoning, defended between first and second readings with one reason, and when a document is drawn up in the Commission at second reading, which absolutely denies these motives, this is recognised by the importers themselves, and what happens to this paragraph in plenary? In my opinion, this paragraph must not be adopted at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u73	Which paragraph are we talking about?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u74	I will now tell you: § 2, Art. 53. I'll read you the motives. It is proposed that the metrology service should not be part of the main activity of the State-owned undertaking By way of exception, a State-owned undertaking, an Air Traffic Guide, provides metrological services to third parties as an external service, but this is in practice an ancillary activity, not an element of the main object of the undertaking's activity. Nobody's denying that. Look what's said below: With the removal of metrology services from the main subject of the activity of the State Enterprise, the Air Traffic Guide will be eliminated the existing duplication with the subject of activity of the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology. Here is the opinion of the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology, which says, first, what is the metrology service. I'm not going to read the whole opinion, and I'm just going to quote the two texts: "According to Art. 8, para. 4 of the Law on Measurements, the heads of departments shall organise the activities of ensuring traceability, accuracy and reliability of the measurements in their legal entities, such activities being carried out through metrology services. Dear colleagues, the metrology service in a given office is the responsibility of the office itself and is not the subject of the activity of the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology or other state institution, that is to say, a duplication of the subject of the activity. In the light of the above, the opinion of the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology is that it is not possible to carry out the metrology services related to the activities of the State enterprise. Air traffic management has no established practice for the national metrology institutes of the Parties to carry out such activities and cannot be talked about their duplication of the metrology service activity with the subject of the activities of BIM. Dear colleagues, you can see what the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology and the importers say. What is worse, however, is that under these motives, Madam President, the Prime Minister is signed. I will also make an official question to him when employees mislead him to sign motives, what sanctions he will take against them, because this amendment is trying to be pushed for the second or third time in the Bulgarian Parliament in various forms on the occasion of various European synchronizations. Otherwise, in all other texts of the Law, we have absolutely no claims. Dear colleagues, in order to protect our dignity and place as MPs, I call you to this § 2. 53, para. 2, do not be supported. If colleagues so insist that this thing be removed from the subject of activity, bring it in in the proper manner and with the proper motives. When it is discussed properly, perhaps we will also support it in the Chamber. Now, in this way, with such motives that mislead all of us, I think we do not deserve this attitude from any administration, in this case the administration of the Ministry of Transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u75	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. You propose and call on the MPs not to support, but you make no other procedural proposal. Thank you. As far as the question you're asking me is concerned, there's no procedure I can answer. I'll give you an answer on the sidelines. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I will call you precisely to the contrary to support the text. Honourable Members, this opinion of the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology has nothing to do with the proposals tabled under this Law. This is something very important that you should all hear when you decide to vote afterwards. Dear colleagues, this Institute is artificially involved in the current Bill. No one is saying that the Institute should perform these measurements. It's another institute that has nothing to do with anything, absolutely nothing to do with RVD. Whether they can or can't do this is their own personal problem that doesn't concern the RVD. The R.V.D. in the case that the colleague was talking about just now, in § 2, Article 2. 53, para. 2 is repealed. 6. Point 6 states: "Metrological services; " is taken out of the main subject of activity, which concerns only the R&D and does not concern this Institute in any way. Furthermore, it is stated in the article itself that: The main object of the activity of the State-owned enterprise is planning, provision, deployment, operation, maintenance of facilities and systems, communication, navigation, surveillance, energy, metrological and air navigation services of air traffic and infrastructure. Madam President, I think the Law should not be in this form until now, because it cannot be written in the basic text of the article that they are obliged to do this thing and then to take it out as a letter. Ladies and gentlemen, let me get this straight. Nothing bad is going on.. just remove this point. Otherwise, the obligation to do so remains and they will continue to do so. And why colleagues involve the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology, this is their view, I do not know why they do it. Again, it has nothing to do with the text of the Law. Therefore, support the proposed Bill and paragraph calmly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u77	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u78	Madam President, honourable Members! I can't figure out where I am today. We have motives signed by the Prime Minister, and in the motives...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u79	Mr. Svilensky, this is relevant to the first reading of the Law. Now we're at second reading, specific provision, take attitude to it. Whom, what and how you will ask is your right, but the debate on the texts reported by Mr. Karadzhov is ongoing, and you are now in a replica procedure to Mr. Ivanov. I expect you to replicate Mr. Ivanov, not wave your motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u80	Mr. Ivanov, in the reasons I was waving a moment ago, it is written that by dropping the metrology service from the main subject of the activity of the state enterprise the Air Traffic Guide will eliminate the existing duplication of the subject of activity with the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology. That's what the motive says. Don't blame me for getting involved with something I didn't make up. That's what the guy who wrote the motives came up with. I say the activity is not duplicated.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u81	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u82	Is there anything that's not clear? I'm not saying whether you should or shouldn't be taken out. I'm saying that the motives it's offered lie to me, lie to you, lie to the whole room. Let them write those motives that you said come, protect them, we'll support them. [[Replications from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] But you're not an importer. Has anyone spoken here yet from the importers? To come out and defend his motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u83	Mr. Svilensky, we're in the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u84	That's what I said in the first vote, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u85	The House has not supported you and has not accepted your arguments. Are you going to use a hole? No. Any other MPs? I won't. We're closing the debate. Since there have been statements and disputes under § 2, I will put it to the vote separately. I put to the vote the Commission proposal to support the text of the importer on the name of the Law and § 1 by importer supported by the Commission. We vote. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion has been adopted unanimously. I put the Commission's proposal to vote in favour of the text of the importer for § 2. Vote 107 MPs: 86 against 16, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 by importer, supported by the Commission. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 111 MPs: 111, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u86	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 6 and shall propose the following wording: ........................................................... Article 3 is Art. 143a. They are punished with a fine of 3,000 to 10 000 leva. or a financial penalty is imposed from 2000 to 10 000 BGN. on the faces of art. 1 § 3 of Commission Regulation (EU) No 255/2010 of 25 March 2010 laying down common rules for air traffic flow management (OJ L 80/10 of 26 March 2010.) which do not fulfil or delay the fulfilment of their obligations arising from the provisions of that Regulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u87	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 6 in its version on the Commission report. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u88	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. 'Concluding provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u89	Statements? I won't. We are voting on Anblok § 7 and on the name "Concluding provision" supported by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u90	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 8 and shall propose the following wording: ................................................................................... The provisions of § 4 concerning art. 141a, para. 4, 5 and 6 shall enter into force from 1 January 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u91	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 8 in the version of the Commission report. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. The proposal is adopted, and thus at second reading and the Law amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act. This was the last item in our legislative programme this week. At 11:00 we continue the session with parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u92	Honourable Members of Parliament, the sitting shall continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 27 March to 2 April 2015: A question has been received from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Dora Yankova to Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture and Food, on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to support dairy cattle farming. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 24 April 2015. Written answers to service: - from the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreev; - from the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev to a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreev; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - by the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on two questions from the National Representative Ilian Todorov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to two questions from the National Representative Stefani Mihaylova; - from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Boyka Marinska; - from the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Kalina Balabanova; - by the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Kalina Balabanova; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the National Representative Hassan Ademov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Mustafa Karadayi; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Georgi Kovachev; - from the Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov to a question from the MPs Kiril Tsochev and Miho Mihov; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Vili Lilkov; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question from the National Representative Ivan Kirilov Ivanov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Desislava Kostadinova; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Velizar Enchev; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Teodora Georgieva; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the MPs Plamen Yordanov and Kiril Dobrev; - additional written answer from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question from the National Representative Jayhan Ibryamov; - from the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to a question from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov; - from the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova to a question from the National Representative Christian Mitev; - from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to two questions from the National Representative Hristian Mitev; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov; - by the Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov on a request from the National Representative Dimitar Delchev. First in the order of parliamentary control today will be Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister for the Interior. Before that, a statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Mr. Lutvi Mestan, Chairman of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! During this winter, nature was particularly ruthless towards the Rhodope Mountains. It was heavy rains in December, in February and heavy snowfall in the period 6 March 8th. The infrastructure has been affected throughout the Rhodopes' entire array of ruined roads, but especially tragic is the situation in certain settlements, particularly in Kardzhaliyska region, in which landslide processes are about to destroy entire villages. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I'm glad you're here because this problem is in your respective responsibilities. I declare responsibly that the purpose of the statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group is not the extraction of a cheap political dividend, because, Deputy Prime Minister, there is no ruling and opposition in the face of the disaster. The calm disaster impossibly suggests that we combine efforts, that we be solidarity. I will shortly provide you with a picture of the scale of the tragedy faced by hundreds of residents of the villages Sipei, Enchets, Nevesino, Penevo, Sredinka, Dadinka, and in the district of Veselchane. As of today, the total number of affected houses only in Kardzhali municipality is 45, of which four are completely destroyed, six houses are uninhabited, and 35 with disrupted structural elements and potentially dangerous to inhabit. Here are just a few pictures. [[Shows picture.]] It's a new house that's already been destroyed. Note that this is not a typical landslide. These are landslide processes that completely change the relief of settlements. And the natural consequence is a loaded furniture in a truck. [[Shows photo]] . And this house is brand new, you see, in it is built life perhaps two generations of Rhodopeans. [[Shows another picture.]] I know that the possibilities of the state budget are limited, and that is why I have a huge request to protect ourselves from temptation, given the enormous amount of funds needed to master the landslide processes, to look for the easier solution, to say: "If we provide housing to these people, say, in the town of Kardzhali, it will be cheaper for the state than investing millions in the landslide processes. I really ask you not to look for a solution in the direction of eviction of these people from the settlements to the city or other settlements. At the same time, we are aware that huge funds are needed that are not planned in the budget. Therefore, I will address you with a proposal that an opposition party does not normally make, we are ready to support you, if necessary, including an update of the state budget, including, if necessary, the budget deficit to be increased by 0,1% - from 1.8% planned, to 1.9%, but we are obliged to find the solution of the case. Usually the opposition voted against the budget and the attitude towards this act structured the parliament of governors and opposition, but I have already said that we have no right in the face of the tragedy caused by the natural disaster, for which neither you are guilty nor the prime minister, we have no right to share ourselves with the ruling and opposition. We have to be sociable. I am even correct to say that we must respect the sensitivity that the cabinet has shown during the difficult days of the natural disaster. We appreciate your commitment to compensate the Bulgarian citizens who lost very few animals because of the extremely massive, heavy snow that covered the Rhodope Mountain. However, even more sensitive, we need to be about the most sensitive issue possible. This is the home, the house. At this stage, only 45 houses are affected, and it is possible for you to say: "We better move these people and we would spend more money than if we invest funds in strengthening, mastering the landslide process, but I assure you that if we do not take the harder and the solution that will cost us much more money, there is ultimately a huge risk that landslide processes will continue. This is the data from geological studies. In the meantime, Mrs. Karayancheva will confirm it. And these 45 houses could be 145 in the near future. We therefore expect from you the proposal for a solution. If you say, we will direct target funds from the emerging higher revenues than the expected one, this is very good news, I heard about a minimum of 250 million in just the first quarter, this is one direction of solution. If this approach isn't enough, I've already made an announcement. If necessary, we will also support an update of the budget with a slight increase in the budget deficit, because the Maastricht criterion to allow countries a budget deficit of at least 3% is also likely due to such unforeseen situations. Without a gram of partying, without a gram of politicisation, with a call for joint efforts to resolve the tragedy faced by the people of the district of Veselcani...........................Sipey, Enchets, Nevelino, Penevo, Sredinka, Dadinka, Kostilane, Kostino and in a number of other settlements from both the Middle and the Southwestern Rhodopes. I hope that you will take in a short time urgent action. And if you need the support of the opposition in the face of the DPS, I declare in advance that you have it. Thank you for your attention. I will also give you the signatures of the residents of the affected villages and the photographs. Thank you, Madam President. Thanks, guys. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u94	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. Ms. Karayancheva on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u95	Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Chairman! Indeed, this winter was relentless for the Rhodopes, although the people there are very strong, but the winter hit us very hard. The landslides observed in Kardzhali are indeed very dramatic, and we really should not make political statements and unite ourselves not politically, but purely because of the need to help people. Unfortunately, there are still no projects for these several villages to be supported, but this project, which currently has it for the village of Sipei, is over 9 million. It's a very precise place to look at things. It has to be seen whether it makes sense to pour funds into something that is constantly failing. Yes, somewhere where there is an opportunity to strengthen, where the houses are still healthy, but perhaps we should look for an option not to transfer people to Kardzhali, but where it is necessary to alienate terrains that are either state or municipal, in some way to give people the opportunity to help themselves, to make their homes. At the moment I want to thank the government because only for the Kardzhali region were given over 3 million. lv. exactly for the disasters that hit us February and March. After all, the government and we as MPs have always been there for the people, we have always responded to their problems, but let's be very precise in assessing what will happen from now on, because the landslide processes really can't be predicted, and what we can do is really do some very serious research in these places and see if it really makes sense to bring so much money into a landslide. Strengthening certain places, yes, but really the problem of people is very big. I also appeal to be very careful in speaking, very careful in how we treat each other and how we treat people, because it is human destinies, and it would be a crime to take political dividends out of it instead of really helping people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u96	We are moving on to the questions of MPs to Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Willy Lilkov will be the first to develop his question about a threat to national and international security by using small aircraft drones. Here you go, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u97	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is related to the threat they pose to national and international security so-called drones or small-scale aircraft. In recent years, they have been mass-produced, very easily accessible. Their parts have not been declared dual-purpose parts. They are available on the Internet, available in stores, that is, anyone who wishes can be provided with such a aircraft. What's the problem? The problem is that they are able to carry up to 50% of their weight and, in this sense, can remotely carry weapons launches, of course, small, can serve as contraband, can serve as unauthorised wiretapping, for intelligence purposes, transfer of chemical substances, and so on, and activities that threaten national and international security in general. At the same time, however, they are very difficult to detect. They can fly by being programmed not to broadcast and not to receive any radio signals. They don't have a radar print, they're hard to see visually, and the acoustic signal is very low in them. In this sense, they can even be used for attacks on aircraft at landing and take-off times. This is a problem that exists in all countries. We are currently working on legislation in the United States, in Australia. I think Bulgaria should not fall behind. My two questions are as follows: Is there any data from the Ministry of Interior on the unauthorised use of such devices, for reconnaissance purposes, for smuggling? Do you think it is necessary to take action towards creating legislation to limit their use, in order, of course, to safeguard national security and the security of citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u98	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. For an answer Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Lilkov, currently the Ministry of Interior does not have specific information on attempts to use unmanned aircraft in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria to commit acts of terrorism, espionage and smuggling. I was confident that unmanned aircraft could be detected by the surveillance posts at the state border when they entered the surveillance and crossing the flight path with the equipment monitoring area, that is, we have no record of any such vehicles crossing the border. With regard to legal regulation, there is no detailed regulation in Bulgaria yet for production, domestic trade and national use, and a new legislative initiative should be agreed with the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, which, under Regulation No 216 of 2008 of the European Parliament has adopted Regulation No H-1-09-01 of 2014 on registration, initial designation, continuing airworthiness, operation of ultralight aircraft, training and issue of pilot licences and controls. However, it does not affect unmanned aircraft with operating mass up to 150 kilograms. For the purpose of greater security, places on the territory of Bulgaria can be defined where it is expressly prohibited to pass small unmanned aircraft. Obviously, new legislation must also be worked in the direction of new legislation, but it must also be agreed with international legislation. That's my answer. Mr. Mestan is gone, but I will take advantage of the time I have left to assure him that there is no premeditation, separation of opposition and ruling when there is a need to solve the problems of the areas affected by disasters. I can assure you that we are very closely monitoring these processes, and when projects from the regional governors are presented to the Commission to address the damage of crisis situations, they are considered. We're looking forward to it. Where necessary, we propose and carry out additional checks so that they can be included in the list of critical sites to be financed. At present, at least ten times the requests exceed the total annual budget of the Commission. Obviously, you need to think about other measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Line, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u101	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your answer. Thank God, so far we don't have that data and it's not used for terrorist, smuggling and intelligence purposes, but I think legal regulation is absolutely necessary. In this sense, I propose to establish an interdepartmental working group from the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Ministry of Interior and I believe that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences should also be attracted, where there is already a accumulated expertise on these devices, and to begin the development of such regulation, because at the moment in Europe, in the United States and in Australia they are already working on their legislation. Once again, these aircraft are very easily accessible and even organisations and individuals with very low budgets can use them to inflict severe damage to national security and, of course, the security and life of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u102	Are you going to use a hole? No. Next, a question by the National Representative Krasimir Jankov on dealing with the current serious criminal situation. We're listening, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u103	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister! [[National Representative Delyan Dobrev spoke with Deputy Prime Minister Rumyana Bachvarova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u104	Mr. Dobrev, give Mrs. Bachvarova a chance to hear the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u105	It was obtained from her in advance. Mrs. Bachvarova, I assume she's prepared. My question is dealing with the current serious criminal situation. During the reign of the second cabinet Borisov in Bulgaria were carried out a series of contract killings, as well as a large number of murders of citizens who can be classified differently. All cases demonstrate a lack of any security for the lives and property of citizens, which is also the main obligation of the Ministry of Interior. As Minister of Interior, do you think that the cabinet Borisov is able to deal with the current serious criminal situation and guarantee the lives and security of citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u106	For an answer Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, my job as Minister of Interior is to make every effort and work to deal with the serious criminal situation in the country. I am far from the illusion that this can happen easily, quickly and categorically, despite my strong desire. The question that I received in writing and which we started discussing during the blitz control was detailed in your question regarding the contract killings that I would like to make a few details about. For the purposes of art. 116, para. 1, t. 10 of the Penal Code, before the perpetrator and the orderer of a committed murder is identified, and an accusation on the respective member sustained in the court shall not be qualified as a contract murder. For the cases in which you have asked your question, I will provide information.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u108	My question was clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u109	For the public killings since the beginning of 2015, for each of those cases suspected to exist an element of an order, the police have taken the necessary action to detect the perpetrators, carried out expertise, questioned and the work on the various versions continues. In order to solve the murder of the Damyans family, shot in front of their home in Sofia, joint events are implemented with SANS, DGBOP, DVR and Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior Varna and Plovdiv under the direction of the Specialized Prosecutor's Office. There are witnesses and witnesses. Records of cameras documenting the routes and the period for the execution of the murder, as well as its preliminary preparation, have been seized. Several versions of the murder are being worked out. There are already designated persons who are operationally interested. With regard to Tatiana Stoyanova's murder in Pazardzhik, there are identified persons who have empathy for the crime behind financial and economic interests. The work on the discovery of the murder is under the control of the Directorate General of National Police and under the leadership of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office. In the case of the murder of Dimitar Stoyanov, shot in front of the Park Hotel Plovdiv, physical evidence was found and seized, experts were appointed. On the day of the murder, there was a report of a car being set on fire. All the data available to the police so far indicates that he's been removed from the perpetrator of the murder. There have been pre-trial proceedings and at present the work continues on three versions. A targeted operational search and investigation activities are conducted under the direction of the District Prosecution "Plovdiv." In connection with the murder of Boris Borisov, shot near the village of Kazicene, pre-trial proceedings were initiated. Initial operational search and investigational activities have been carried out. Witnesses have been interrogated. A team of employees of the SDVR, DGBOP and the Directorate-General of National Police are working on each of the versions. Their actions are run by the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office. My personal impressions, although in this short period I am in the Ministry, are that very actively working on these cases.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u110	The line, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u111	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, you seem to have been informed. I tried to ask the Prime Minister a question directly about his commitment made on January 18th. It was about solving all the murders in the past weeks as his commitment for the next seven days. This became known to Bulgarian citizens and to us as a promise given by Boyko Borisov to the General Assembly of the Women's Organization of GERB. That's exactly the kind of murder you said they were working on. However, the Prime Minister's commitment was within seven days to be revealed. He wouldn't be working the Ministry of Interior on these murders! My question, asked the parliamentary control, is: is he able to deal with the current serious criminal situation of the government of Boyko Borisov? And you're part of this cabinet, Minister of the Interior. I remind you of the parliamentary control we also had in the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, in which I asked you to provide us with a reference for all the murders committed and violations of the lives of Bulgarian citizens since the beginning of your term of office, of GERB, and what a revelation there is. I expect this to happen so that it is clear how effective the work of the Ministry and of this office is. Because the last official information Bulgarian citizens have is the public report of the Minister of Interior Mr. Bakalov, who was: for August and September 62% increase in the killings in Bulgaria. What happens to the work of the Ministry of Interior so there is no fear in the streets, Madam Minister? I quote Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u112	And when the Ministry of Interior was here in Parliament, who did you quote? Or whatever's good for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u113	You're not prepared.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u114	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u115	Mr. Iankov, I think you are completely unacceptable at politicizing this subject. If you are genuinely interested in Bulgarian citizens feeling at ease on the streets of the country, I think it would be helpful for your tone to be more constructive. In due course you will be provided with information if you formally request it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u116	So I should write a letter.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u117	Yeah, that's the order to get that information. I'm going to try to compare it to similar periods to see how the clearance is going. The statistics I have at my disposal by the end of February are to increase crime detection and reduce their number in the last two months. But you know that statistics are still relative. I will therefore provide you with this information. I hope you read it correctly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u118	Next, a question by the MP Georgi Kovachev concerning the limitation of staff costs in the public administration.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u119	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Deputy Prime Minister, in the reasons for the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, in Part II of the Law on State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, I will quote this. 2:......... to reduce the budget deficit under the consolidated fiscal programme 2015................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ As a measure, the expenditure part provides for a reduction in staff costs by more than 350 million. BGN, including reduction of salaries and social contributions in the budget area by 10%. My question is: what activities and where, in which administrations have been carried out and is targeted to be carried out in order to limit staff costs? What is the effect so far and do you have accurate data and figures for actions already carried out by the authorities of the state administration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u120	Please respond, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u121	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kovachev, one of my priorities as Deputy Prime Minister in charge of administrative reform is a reduction in public administration expenditure. At the same time, my belief is that this should not happen at the expense of its functions and successful work. At the beginning of this year, I sent a letter to all administrations, which set out nine main areas for optimization of staff costs, which was planned to be within 10% on average. For individual departments, the percentage is different. I can give them to you so I don't waste the time of the MPs. A meeting of the Administrative Reform Council was held on 5 March, at which the ministers reported what they had done in this direction. Some of them also provided written references. What I can tell you is that, at the moment, optimization has been carried out in 10 state institutions, with cuts amounting to 1653 state numbers. I can also provide you with a detailed list and specific data for each of the departments. I must inform you that there have been concerns in several Council reports on administrative reform that the mechanical reduction of staff will have a negative impact on the quality and volume of tasks carried out. Due to these concerns, further guidance will be given within the Council to optimize administrative structures based on the functionality of ministries. I assure you that the implementation of these measures will be accompanied by the relevant social programmes to support the outgoing civil servants. Our goal is to have a sustainable, stable and effective state administration. I am convinced that there are enough good specialists in Bulgaria who can model the optimization process in the medium term. I will very much insist on the fact that the structure optimization plan must have a three-year period. I think this will help exclusively to manage the resources of the ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u122	Mr. Kovachev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u123	A very brief line, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister: to understand from what you've presented as data that so far the cut is a total of 1,600 people at about 150,000. State administration?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u124	One hundred and forty-six.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u125	One hundred and forty-six, which is a percentage... I don't think you're in the plan right now. If you really have set this ambitious programme to be implemented in three years, it no longer corresponds to what was written in advance in the budget programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u126	You have the floor for the coat, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u127	One clarification, Mr. Kovachev. The data I presented to you is confirmed and presented by 10 of the departments. The optimization process is still ongoing, and I hope we will have the whole picture soon, but the requirements for these average 10% are inalienable.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u128	The next question is from MP Stanislav Stanilov on new appointments in the administration of the Ministry of Interior and cuts of uniformed police officers. Now on the other side, Mr. Stanilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u129	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! Dear Minister, I admit that the information on this issue and the words I am about to say are not the result of my personal impressions and research, but are the result of seven letters from two electoral areas in which, in general, voters, even one of them said that it is not from the Ataka. They are interested in the problem that I will raise. They claim that the administration of the Ministry of Interior authorities employs many people and, at the same time, uniformed policemen are cut off from those who really move on the streets and among the people and are essential for protecting public order. In this regard, I ask you to answer me how many are assigned to administrative posts in the Ministry of Interior and how many are made redundant for uniformed police officers in the first quarter of 2015? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u130	Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u131	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stanilov, yes, there are such tales, unconfirmed allegations of such logic of abbreviations. I will present to you the data I have, but I can tell you that during this term the Ministry inherited an inadequate state with the Rules of the Council of Ministers. That is, in addition to the norms required from the beginning of our mandate, the transformations had to be in line with the previously adopted Rules on the Construction and Activity of the Ministry of Interior, which states that the number of the Ministry of Interior is 49 500 state numbers. Although the Rules of Procedure entered into force as early as 22 July 2014 at the end of that year, the real state in the Ministry of Interior numbered over 51 thousand. Number of units. In order to avoid this non-compliance and in order to comply with the provisions of the Ministry of Interior Act and its regulations, an order has been issued to the Minister of Interior to cut approximately 3.5 of the main states in the structures. The U.S. figures of the reduced vacant posts for uniformed officers in the Ministry of Interior for the first quarter of this year are 988. I must emphasise that a total of 423 competitions for the inauguration of a state position for uniformed employees were announced in the Ministry of Interior during the same period. That's not administrative. A total of 47 439 employees in the Ministry of Interior are currently employed. You understand yourself that reducing the number of 988 posts in holiday posts does not hinder the possibility of announcing a contest and filling state numbers. Abbreviation of the vacant numbers in the structures of the Ministry of Interior is the sole purpose of bringing the real state into line with the regulations of the state. Fighting domestic crime is a top priority in my work as a minister, as well as the entire management of the Ministry of Interior. The administrative reform that is currently taking place is precisely in order to implement certain policies, which also includes supporting more uniform composition in all structures. I can assure you that we are literally on a daily basis looking for opportunities to reorganize the available forces to ensure this. Regarding the other question you are asking about the appointment of administrative staff. In the first quarter of 2015, only 74 were newly appointed. The average ratio between the employees in the administration and the operational staff is below the average for the general state administration in the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u132	Thank you for your answer, Mrs. Bachvarova. There's a word for a line, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u133	Dear Minister, your answer sounds satisfactory, but I will reserve my right after a certain period, for example, after about three months, to ask you again such a question and it will be connected to the function................................is the Ministry of Interior's function improved or not? The results of the activities of the Ministry of Interior will also result in your assessment as Minister whether you have succeeded or not. If they are reduced, and if major crimes are solved, if petty domestic thefts are reduced, then house robbery and so on, it will be seen whether you really are a successful minister or not. Otherwise, I take advance a priori your statements and the statement of your response. I hope he's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u134	I don't suppose there's gonna be a duvet, Mrs. Bachvarova? Mr. Stanilov, you can stay and continue with the next question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u135	My second question to you is a little more complicated because it is related to state policy. Madam Vice Prime Minister, I ask this question to you, as the President of the National Assembly Mrs Tsacheva turned him away from his actual address, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, arguing that you are the deputy prime minister on the problems of cultural tourism and cultural heritage, and as such you have the necessary competence, which I have no doubt about. Prime Minister Boyko Borisov has repeatedly publicly stated that in Europe our country is known for two things: archaeology and financial discipline. In this regard, it gives priority that the state has two obligations to give money to archaeologists to dig and make way for tourists to go to see them. In your government, the priority cultural tourism is realized by two ministries of tourism and culture. The practice of recent months has shown a serious disparity between the two ministries. A public assessment of the effectiveness of the implementation of the project of the Ministry of Tourism, integrated communication campaigns for Bulgaria on targeted markets was announced in February. According to the assessment the advertisement of cultural sites is the main one that attracts attention in the promotion of Bulgarian national tourism product. According to all rules of management of cultural and historical heritage and according to sound logic, the found cultural and historical values must be preserved and preserved in an appropriate mutual environment. This is also the expectation with which every tourist comes to visit. Against this background again in February, the Minister of Culture began unwarranted mass cuts in national museums and galleries. The Ministry of Culture has decided to fulfill its commitment to 10% cuts in administration, reducing only four officials and 78 curators and stockholders. The second group is composed only of highly qualified specialists, without which the museums are dead and cannot offer any product to the Bulgarian public or foreign tourists. For example, 10 people had to be made redundant from the National Museum of History and six from the National Museum of Park, where only one specialist will remain. In this regard, please answer me what measures will you take to reach a dialogue between the Ministry of Tourism and Culture on the protection of personnel needed to conduct an effective policy for the development of cultural tourism? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u136	You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u137	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Stoilov! Indeed, within my powers is the horizontal coordination of policies between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Tourism, including the policy on cultural tourism. Unfortunately, in view of the strategy and the direction of administrative optimization, this extremely important policy remains at an disposal in this way. I'll try to give you a quick answer in general. In view of the implementation of the State Budget Act and Decree No 8 of the Council of Ministers for its implementation, staff in the state museums were reduced by 29 people, some of whom technical persons. This figure goes against what you are quoting, and it would be good to reconcile it, because the information I have is official. The abbreviations were made in other state and cultural institutions, as well as in other public and cultural institutions. The Bulgarian National Filmshop, Bulgarian Cultural Institutions abroad. On this occasion, the Ministry of Culture has held talks with the nationally represented trade unions. Together with them, it has decided to develop a new model for funding national museums. With regard to the development of cultural and historical tourism, indeed, the government's programme is listed as a priority. This is because our ambition is for Bulgaria to be imposed as a year-round tourist destination. Such ambition cannot be realized without the development and advertising of the valuable cultural and historical sites that our country owns and their presentation in Europe and the whole world is an undeniable competitive advantage, which we will take advantage of very soon. In mid-April, the exhibition of the Thracian heritage is opened in Paris. In parallel with this event is organized a program that is related to the presentation of Bulgarian business, Bulgarian tourism, there are accompanying events. I hope this has a broad effect and a very large response in Europe. In recent years, 500 thousand have been allocated to fulfilling the commitments of the Ministry of Culture. lv. for conservation and restoration works of movable cultural values. Almost the same amount is planned each year for regular field archaeological studies. According to data in the case of special decrees of the Council of Ministers, larger amounts have been provided for the activities mentioned so far. The current management of the Ministry of Culture has stated in the draft budget programme for 2016 "2018," for each year three million leva for conservation and restoration works and five for regular rescue archaeological studies.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u138	Yes, then, if further information is needed after Mr. Stanilov's reply. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u139	In relation to the discrepancy of the numbers probably in the course of the abbreviations is given, a little complicated is some kind of block, in which there is nothing wrong, of course. That's good. But I would like to read you some data that I would like you to pay attention to as a representative Deputy Prime Minister, because these are undeniable facts and they have already been exported from government documents. Separated is the fact that the cuts in museums and the People's Library have been carried out without applying criteria and principles, evaluation and analysis, directly the Ministry has cut these figures without knowing their specifics. Whatever. Here are the facts I'd like to remind you of to pay attention to them. The budget of the Ministry of Culture for 2015 has been increased by 5 million. 954 thousand. lv. Compared to 2014 the relative share of policy funding "Conservation of movable and immovable cultural heritage' is 10.72% of the general budget. In all developed countries, the comparison is in all European countries, the mobile cultural heritage budgets are the most important item of state expenditure for culture and reach 60%. Only in our country they are 10.72 percent. At the same time, the amount by which the financing of the budget programme is reduced "Conservation of the cultural heritage" constitutes 45% of the total made-up funds, which is unacceptable in relation to what you said and the government's intentions. The biggest burden, expressed in the reduction of funding, falls on the budget programmes "Conservation, support and development of Bulgarian culture, book sector, libraries and community centers." The two together form 70% of all layoffs. The total reduction in the cost of staff support in the Fund is 571 thousand for institutions in the field of movable and immovable cultural heritage under secondary officers of the Ministry of Culture. BGN 530. At the same time, the total increase in expenditure in the other budget programmes is 6 million. 534 thousand. lv. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This, Deputy Prime Minister, cannot be handled easily without making any note and I ask you to pay attention to this, because the intentions and facts here differ. I hope that you, as a new deputy prime minister in this direction, will pay serious attention and change things. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u140	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. So you're appealing to the Deputy Prime Minister to pay attention to the Minister of Culture? You have the floor, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u141	Yes, I share your concern, but I just want to make it clear that these actions and proposals in relation to the budget and the main policies remain the priority of the Ministry. My functions are related to horizontal policies. You can address this question to the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u142	Yes, thank you. We move on to the next issue by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov concerning the existence of a regulation governing the arrangements for the organization of security in the transport of explosives, pyrotechnic articles, firearms and ammunition in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u143	Mr. Chairman, Vice-Presidents, Vice-Presidents, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! The transport of explosives, pyrotechnic articles, firearms and ammunition in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria is governed by the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles. According to the provisions of this law, transport is carried out by means of vehicles and transport packages with armed guards on the basis of an authorisation granted by the Director of the Directorate General of the National Police and by an official authorised by him or by the Head of the Regional Administration of the Police, in whose territory they will be transported. With regard to the transport of valuable consignments, please note here......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is issued by the Ministry of Interior, which introduces mandatory requirements regarding units carrying armed guards, such as: license under the Law on Private Security Activities, I refer to art. 5, para. 1, t. 4 and special units and teams for each transport, including preliminary briefings of the guards, development of instructions for emergency situations and security plans, specially equipped transport, reliable connection and requirement to the team. At the same time, the transport of explosives, pyrotechnic articles, firearms and ammunition in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria has only a requirement for armed guards, regardless of the category, type and quantity of transport of such cargo. My question to you is as follows: is transport with armed guards of explosives, pyrotechnic articles, firearms and ammunition in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria a source of increased danger and activity for which there should be a specific regulation with a statutory regulation relevant to the taking of anti-terrorism measures by the Ministry of Interior and the prevention of possible attacks for violations? Last but not least: Is there currently a regulatory regulation or a draft regulation governing the above activities in the territory of the State? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u144	Come in for an answer, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u145	Dear Mr. Stoilov, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, Mr. Belemezov! Chapter V of the Law on arms, ammunition, explosives and pyrotechnic articles regulates the order for the transport of explosives. Transport shall be carried out in accordance with an authorisation issued by the competent bodies of the Ministry of Interior, with one of the requirements for issuing it being the presence of armed guards which may be carried out either by their own security unit or by a person authorised to carry out private security activities. The documents required to issue a transport authorisation are fully listed in the Law. The transport of explosives does not constitute a source of increased danger as it is carried out with armed guards. There is no legal basis in the Law on Arms and in the Law on Private Security Activities for issuing a regulation of the terms and conditions of security in the transport of explosives. For this reason, there is no legal regulation in force. At the time of the adoption of the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, the legislator has considered that there is no legal basis which would also lead to the creation of such an act and that the question you have raised should be settled. I think there is no obstacle through a legislative initiative to put forward a discussion and discuss such a new regulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u146	Thank you. You have an opportunity for a line, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. My opinion is slightly different in the direction of what you claim. In my view, it is practically sufficient to grant a valid licence to carry out private security activities, i.e. armed guards, without an authority issuing the authorisation, to be able to assess the number of armed guards, and whether they comply with the category and quantity of transport of such cargo, as well as against the obligation of the trader to provide the number and type of security. In my opinion, it is paradoxical that regardless of whether they transport 50,000 kg of TNT or ammonia, 5000 kg or 5 kg, there is no requirement for the number of guards, and there is no requirement for this kind of security from specialized units and teams for any such transport. Moreover, there are no preliminary briefings of the guards involved, development of instructions for emergency situations and security plans. Specially equipped transport is also not available and reliable connection as is the regulatory requirement for the transport of valuable consignments and cargo. So all this about something that is much less important exists, and ultimately something that is extremely important and carries some kind of risk to national security is not settled. In view of the legally protected establishment, namely the activity of transporting dangerous substances, there should be strict requirements in my opinion both for their production, acquisition and wear and for their transport with the relevant regulations, such as regulations, regulations and instructions. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. At present, there is no regulation governing the terms and conditions of this type of activity. As I believe that the common dangerous goods and the activity of their transport represent, by their nature, I think here: a source of increased danger...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u148	Please, there is no way to justify the entire content of the regulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u149	I stress that this constitutes a source of increased danger, which is clearly neglected and underestimated in view of the degree of public danger and the risk of possible attacks for the purpose of invasion. My request is, Madame Deputy Prime Minister, to really look for options in which to put the issue into discussion and take the necessary measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u150	Would you like a douche bag? Yes, perhaps this issue should be discussed expertly at the Ministry, so the question is raised by you. The next question is from the MP Magdalena Tasheva regarding the security of the ammunition warehouse near the village of Iganovo, which was destroyed by explosions on 21 March 2015. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u151	Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On March 21, 2015, around 19.30, the ammunition warehouse broke out in the land of the village of Iganovo, located between Iganovo and Karnare. According to information from the Ministry of Interior and witnesses from the surrounding villages, the last explosion occurred around 9:45 that evening. The area was cut off by the police. The period of its isolation, which is 24 hours, should end no earlier than 9:45 the next day "22 March." The next day at noon, the new Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior, the relevant prosecutor gave a detailed press conference to the media present at the branch of the road to the warehouse. Three or four hours after this press conference on the branch between the Sub-Balkan Road and the asphalted deviation that was built and led specifically to this warehouse, there was no one. I was there, and I found that between 16:00 and 16:30, although I was not allowed to the warehouse, from the warehouse area, from the warehouse and the workshop were coming out of private cars, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. I witnessed that even the TIRes were coming out and without explanation were passing by the patrol that blocked the fork to the warehouse and left on their own business. I can apply photographs, for example, to a private car with registration PB 9485 ТТ and to TIR with registration РВЕМ 6552, which came out of the shop and after exchanging a few words with the patrol car, left on Republican Road I-6. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: why and with whose sanction on 22 March during the day, i.e. before the mandatory 24-hour isolation period expires, are private cars and trucks allowed in the area of the scene, which create conditions for compromising the evidence and thwarting the pre-trial search? Secondly, what did these cars carry out from the workshop and/or warehouse in the 24-hour period during which even bomb squads were not admitted to the scene of the accident?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva. I let you talk longer, because the issue is important and you delivered specific data. Please stick to the time. Here you are, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u153	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Tasheva! The Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Plovdiv has established an immediate organization for 24-hour security with a perimeter of 3 km from the area of the warehouse base in Iganovo. The perimeter is determined by order of the mayor of Karlovo municipality. In order to carry out actions to preserve the scene, an organization for crossing the portal on the base has been established, as well as for guarding the separate external perimeter in which the area is crossed, agricultural arrays and wooded area. Due to the presence of nearby Kurnare and Iganovo villages, the perimeter is saturated with the required number of police cars and employees to prevent entry into the guarded area of persons and cars. The findings falling within this area shall be protected and no persons shall be allowed to have access to them, including police officers. Only officers of the Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Defence, warehouse officers, and all related to pre-trial proceedings under the direct authority and after authorisation of the chief investigative officer who conducts the investigative activities are allowed in the guarded perimeter. You are not allowed in order to ensure your personal safety. Regarding the admission of the vehicles quoted by you, I can say that in the passenger car a factory manager used the car to move to the parking lot located outside the guarded base to cooperate in conducting the investigative proceedings. The second vehicle is a semi-trailer and is owned by Sopot. All persons and vehicles entering and exiting the warehouse and production facilities in Iganovo, including security guards of the self-guarding unit still guarding the base, shall be omitted under strict record keeping, without personal vehicles, and no production or physical evidence shall be exported outside the scene of the incident. The actions of the employees of the Ministry of Interior are carried out under the direction of the District Prosecutor's Office. In the last two days, this is my new information, bomb squads from the Department of Defense have cleared over six kilometers of dirt roads in the security area. 46 items have been discovered that experts have identified as dangerous. This fact proves the increased security and security measures and justifies why you have not been admitted. These sites are transported to a safe place and are to be disposed of properly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u154	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Tasheva, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u155	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I do not protest that I am not admitted. It's right I'm not allowed. I mean, why would a giant truck be allowed in here? That wasn't a halfway house. I said I'd offer you pictures of them not of good quality, because I took pictures of them with my phone, a camera wasn't allowed, but I can give you a picture of a huge truck, five minutes the body passed in front of me. So this isn't a semi-trailer. I don't get the answer to the question of what this truck brought out! I have a recommendation, if I may. For several years since 2008, probably because of the activation of conflict outbreaks in the Middle East and elsewhere, Bulgaria is constantly firing ammunition depots: 1 October 2014. - Gorni Lom; 5 June 2012 "The Fivefold; 3 July 2008 ==References====External links==* Chelopere; 9 August 2008 On 12 September 2012, we had two more explosions in Arsenal; on 8 August 2014, the warehouses in Sevlievo on 12 November 2011. In Terem, King Samuel; in Kostenets there were explosions, 10 people suffered; now also in Iganovo. This is not the way to shoot ammunition stores without the society and institutions in Bulgaria to carry out research to determine the reasons. Everyone knows that by blowing up a warehouse, anyone can wipe out the traces of ammunition exported and sold on smuggling routes for arms trafficking. There were ammunition or the same type of ammunition that were stored in Chelope, which, if you don't want, appeared a month later in Georgia. So this is where we need to step up control. I believe that the new Act on the Control of Explosive Substances, Munitions and pyrotechnic articles adopted on 17 September 2010 should be developed by the Rules on its Implementation. Under the old Law, adopted in 1999, there were such Rules. To the new Law, by chance or by no means, no such Rules have been drawn up. Here is where we can look for the reason for the lack of any control over this sensitive production.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva. Complicated question to answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, is it a matter of negligence or of deletion of traces of explosions? Would you like a douche bag?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u157	However, I must clarify that all the necessary actions in the investigation are being conducted by the management of the District Prosecutor's Office and I hope that the facts will be established. I accept your recommendations and will be evaluated.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u158	Thank you. The next question is from the National Representative Manol Genov on the financing of emergency and reconstruction works by the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers on the road to the Gorna Voden district of Asenovgrad.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u159	Mr. Chairman, don't comment on the questions and...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u160	No, I'm not commenting, I was just formulating the dilemma. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u161	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! My question is about financing emergency reconstruction works by the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers for the road to the district. "Gorni Voden" "Gorni Voden" / "Gorni Voden" / "Gorni Voden" / "Gorni Voden" / "Gorni Voden" / "Gorni Voden" / "Gorni Voden" / "Gorni Voden" Asenovgrad. In the period 24 October, 1 November 2014 a landslide process was activated in the municipality of Asenovgrad, which caused damage in extremely large amounts, unable to deal with the funds of the municipality's budget. After the pouring rains of 24 and 25 October 2014 the only road to the district fell. It affects the daily lives of nearly 2,000 inhabitants. The mayor of the municipality has done everything possible to deal with the situation temporarily, and an emergency road has been built to the neighborhood, which, however, is not in perfect condition. It's been five months now. It is closed, which makes it impossible to reach the cars of Emergency Aid, Fire Safety, police, the implementation of the routes of urban transport, garbage collection and shipping, the movement of citizens to their jobs. By letter dated 15 November 2015, the municipality of Asenovgrad requested funds from the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers, but no official reply yet. After the subsequent snowfalls, the landslide has reactivated, continues to expand and is already on an area of about 8 decares, and the fall is over 8 m. Asenovgrad Municipality has requested an extension of the period of distress in the neighborhood, as not only the remainder of the road is currently threatened, but also the residential buildings. My question to you is this: when will the Commission consider the request? As President of the Commission, do you not think that it is better to allocate less money for preventive action?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u162	Thank you. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u163	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Genov! The means available on which the Interdepartmental Commission for Recovery and Assistance is pronounced are aimed at covering the damage in an urgent manner. I can tell you that the proposal made to the Commission is included in the list of proposals. It's worth 914 thousand. BGN 947. In so far as the decision of the Commission's extraordinary meeting was in a very urgent order, almost 14 million were allocated. lv. Wednesday. This project will also be reviewed at the next regular meeting. The decision I said a little earlier, I would repeat it. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to draw up a complete list of registered landslides, to prioritize them and then to decide on their financing. But it is registered on the list of objects to be examined.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u164	Thank you. Mr. Genov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u165	I thought you'd please me, not just me, but the residents of this neighborhood, with more positive news. It is a good thing that this thing is included in this agenda. This news is a little embarrassing. Why should we bring the inhabitants of this neighborhood to the limits of their patience and opportunities and to protest? I want to make one more detail, because all this happened because the right person at this moment was watching the TV, probably from Bankya, how the people of Upper Waters protested and urgently ordered this file to be at least brought in. Mrs. Bachvarova, don't you find it disturbing that we have many butaphorical organizations and institutions such as this Interdepartmental Commission? I understand the budget options are extremely limited. We've had a lot of trouble this year in many places. However, three MPs from three different political parties from the region have deposited a letter to this Commission on 12 November. It, along with this file, has been aged in the waiting room of the Interdepartmental Commission for five months. For five months this landslide continued to expand, to make people uncomfortable. And what will other mayors of municipalities think, other organizations that hope? Well, to work through the TV.. hopefully the right person will be there at this time and make the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u166	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Would you like a duplicate, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u167	Yes, thank you. Two words. I think that on this subject any speculation you use and interpretations of the way the Commission works are inappropriate. [[Relations from the National Representative Manol Genov.]] Within the last two weeks, there have been two extraordinary meetings for which I can bear direct responsibility. That's what I can tell you. I hope that your request will be accompanied by a very well developed strengthening project.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u168	It's a city project, not mine.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u169	Thank you, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, for your participation in parliamentary control. We are moving on to the questions to the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Mr. Tomislav Donchev. The first question is from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov on the amount of funds in the Corporate Commercial Bank of state companies, whose principal falls within the portfolio of Minister Donchev and an authority on whose decision the Deposit Contract was concluded in a bank account.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Donchev! Our question, which Peter Slavov and I have asked to you, concerns the Corporate Commercial Bank and the state money invested in the form of deposits. So far, there is only journalistic information on the subject, which is, of course, unofficial and unconfirmed. And after a question we asked Finance Minister Goranov, we were answered that it is 65 state-owned companies that have invested in CTB 247.6 million. lv. But we don't have an answer to the question of how much each individual firm has invested. That is why we are pointing the question to you, first, in order to win you over as a supporter for the fact that banking secrecy cannot be involved. It is a matter of state money that belongs to all of us, and it is right to know, given the expected losses that these companies will suffer, you see the state of KTB, it is obvious that these companies will have serious losses to understand by name and specifically for each company how much money she has invested in KTB and with the decision of which authority. I know that you do not have it and it is logical that you do not have all this information at the moment, but we believe that you are the person who can require the ministries of your portfolio to provide it to you: each company has how much money it has held at KTB, notice, with a decision of which authority, and thirdly at what interest? Why is the issue of interest important? The information we have so far, Mr. Donchev, shows that the state money is held at lower interest rates in CCB than a number of cases of money invested by the private sector. In other words, State money is held in CCB at lower interest rates than comparable situations of money invested by private companies. [[The President signals that speaking time has expired.]] So we hope for your cooperation that this information will become public, because it is publicity that will only unravel the case CTB. [[The President indicates that the speaking time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u171	The question is clear, Mr. Dimitrov. Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Donchev, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u172	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, Mr. Slavov, to win me over as a supporter, you don't have to ask me a question. I am adamant that everything related to the drama, the shock, the crash KTB should be publicly known. Of course, subject to the limitations of legislation when it comes to sensitive information. However, as much information can be provided not only to the National Assembly, to the general public, it must be provided. Not for anything but to know what happened to ensure that this never happens again. If I have to answer your question briefly, unfortunately, there is no way I can sound differently from my colleague, Goranov, the Minister of Finance. To give information about the accounts of each of the companies, their absolute size and so on can be provided to you only after an opinion of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Finance. Unfortunately, we don't have one yet. Still, complying with the requirements of banking secrecy. If there is a positive opinion, the information will be yours at this time when we get an opinion. Otherwise, the data you mentioned earlier by your colleague is absolutely correct. It's 247.6 million. lv. And if I allow myself to extend your question, because I have mentioned the lessons learned without repeating the provisions of the Council of Ministers Decree No 127 of 2013 and the commitment of commercial companies within three months to report to the Ministry of Finance on compliance with the requirements of this decree, I would like to assure you that, according to the information provided by the ministries on 31 December last year, over 90% of companies and businesses have adopted or are in the process of adopting internal rules in accordance with the rules for the choice of contractor for the provision of financial services. What I want to assure you is that everything that needs to be done will be done and the other 10% will move forward and have similar internal rules. As for the other information, in writing or from the parliamentary tribune, you will have it after the expected opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u173	You have the floor, Mr. Slavov, for a reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the question we asked you is somewhat similar to the question and the answer that we asked and received from Minister Goranov last week. Now I'm going to explain to you why we're putting it on you. If indeed the Minister of Finance could invoke banking secrecy and have any reservations with a view to not revealing it, because in order to provide us with the information, he must receive it from a Corporate Commercial Bank. There really exists the question of whether or not there is a bank secret, although after yesterday's decision of the Supreme Administrative Court it is already obvious that there is no license, there is no bank, so it is obvious to me that there is no bank secret either. You are the responsible deputy prime minister of a number of companies in the field of energy, the economy and so on and we hoped you would request information from them under the order of supervision and control, as a portfolio deputy prime minister. Then there is no bank secret and no one can rely on it, because the information you were about to receive would not have come from the Bank. That was the point of our questioning. We will provide you with the list that Minister Goranov gave us to see all companies in the field of economics and energy that are present there and order checks regarding them to really clarify why companies, such as the Bulgarian Energy Holding, the National Electricity Company, Bulgargaz. And the other thing is more important than the fact that the truth has to come out, it has to be clear and the question of responsibility. This is the point of the second part of our question to see which authority has taken the decision, whether there is a decision of the company body, or whether these are sole actions of certain individuals from these companies. If this is the case and the ruling of the Council of Ministers on deconcentration is not implemented, they shall be made available to the Prosecutor's Office. Here, we see, she's been exhibiting enviable activity lately. Let's give her this extra job. I think you would have every reason to provide such information to the prosecution. Finally, if the interest is indeed confirmed that the interest received was much lower than the market or the average for the Bank, the question arises as to who received the difference from the interest. That may be a question for the prosecution again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u175	Thank you. Mr. Donchev, come in, there were additional questions, if you can answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u176	Let me repeat that after clearing all legal considerations, if there are no restrictions, this information will be provided to you. Let me afford, perhaps uncomfortable for myself, that it is not right for us to think only of the companies a part of the portfolios I observe. There are other companies from other portfolios. I would allow myself to think, expanding the circle, talking about all state-owned companies. And one more thing is not correct when an executive body is only in the role of a translator, providing you with information. Of course, it's one of the commitments, but far is not enough. What we will do when we have such a legal opportunity is, in addition to providing information, to think about a shorter or longer analysis that will focus on the issues raised by you. I absolutely agree with you that it is unacceptable, unacceptable, we can also use other expressions, a state-owned company, especially in a poor financial condition, to hold its funds of non-market interest in the bad sense of the word. Here comes naturally the question of who, how, on what grounds he made such decisions and how he was motivated. If there is data in this direction, it is not only the National Assembly that should deal with this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u177	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. I would only allow myself to say on the subject that there are public procurements of much lower values and how banks, commercial companies, provide their money in commercial banks, there are no real rules. The next question is from the National Representative Jayhan Ibryamov on a plan to overcome the risks to Bulgaria from the failure to accept the new Public Procurement Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! One of the preconditions included in the signed Partnership Agreement between Bulgaria and the European Commission, on the basis of which almost 16 billion will be provided. Euro financial assistance from EU funds by 2020 is the obligation of the country to adopt a whole new Public Procurement Act. I remind you that the expectations of the European Commission are the new Public Procurement Act to be adopted by the National Assembly by mid-2015. According to the information I have and the media have announced in recent months, the government is preparing to submit this regulation only in the autumn of this year. According to information distributed by cabinet ministers, the delay in the preparation of the new law is justified by the need to conduct extensive consultations with representatives of the administration, business, local authorities, the non-governmental sector and financial circles. At the same time, the government, in view of the delay, violates the conditions of the National Strategy for the Development of the Sector "Public Procurement" adopted in July 2014, and you know that this strategic document has received a positive assessment from the European Commission. According to data from government sources, also distributed by the Bulgarian media, such a bill not only has not gone through the mechanism of public discussion so far, but it turns out that the Public Procurement Agency is only able to present a working version of this bill. In my opinion there is a risk of failure to comply with the National Strategy for Sector Development "Public procurements" respectively of the commitments of Bulgaria arising from the Partnership Agreement, which could lead to the suspension of the EU funds in 2016. In this regard, my question to you is: what measures to address the risks to Bulgaria from the failure to adopt within the new Public Procurement Act has the government prepared and/or implemented?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u179	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. For an answer, there is the word Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u180	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ibryamov! The need to adopt an entirely new Public Procurement Act is undeniable. This topic has also been commented in the previous weeks. There are two reasons. First of all, the need to transpose new directives and, moreover, as a second reason, the undisputed assessment that the text that we have at the moment has long failed to meet the expectations and needs of all parties involved in the process, both of contracting entities and of candidates, as well as of contractors and control bodies. The text is outdated, with numerous orimentary remnants of old relationships, problems, views and so on and is too complex to observe and follow. Returning to some nuances of your question, I would like to remind myself that the deadline for submitting a new text of the Law is December of last year. Wanting to be perfectly punctual, you can't blame me for not developing a new Public Procurement Act in a month. Getting into even more detail, the Public Procurement Strategy itself, although it is a document developed by the previous government, I fully approve, it is reasonable, meaningful and must be followed, was adopted by about five months' delay. It was expected to be adopted in February last year and was only adopted in July. I believe that an additional factor, which generates delays not in the mandate of this cabinet, is the disfocusing of efforts, rather than immediately starting the preparation of the Law, has been made a number of efforts on processes related to changes in the current Law, such as the development of software for random selection of experts and so on, which has undoubtedly delayed the process. I would like to say that the deadline for transposition of the directive is April 2016. The deadline will not only be respected, but I am convinced that, with the support of the National Assembly, we will have adopted a Law long before then, which will be in force from 1 January 2016. We currently do not have an early or unfinished text, we have a perfectly ready text. If the goal is to hurry, it may be on the attention of the Bulgarian Parliament next week. It also reflects the need to transpose directives, as well as all lessons learned. It is only right, however, that all interested departments, ministries take another look at the text so that some of the different considerations in the committees in the National Assembly are not transferred, which would make the process difficult here. In addition, following the highest standards, the text should be agreed not only with the authorities of the state administration, ministries, agencies, but with all the other industry associations, builders, architects, municipalities, a period that will take several months. I am convinced that the text will be of your attention not in September, but in May or June at the latest, which means that the National Assembly will have enough time for a more careful review of the Law so that what I have just commented on will have a text that will enter into force from January 1, 2016 to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u181	Thank you. Here's a line, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I never intended to accuse you of anything. I'm satisfied with your answer. The idea was to introduce us, the MPs, and society to the deadlines in which the government works regarding the new Public Procurement Act. Naturally, this is an important Law that will perhaps show a brighter future for Bulgaria to the European Commission. If it is possible to receive this Project you are talking about electronically, I would be grateful.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u183	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u184	The text I am commenting on is now available at a number of offices. In addition, in our efforts to move the processes as quickly as possible, I asked for opinions from all key branch organizations at the end of last year and, above all, proposals that can be implemented in the Law in order not to waste time. As a short answer you will receive the text in question in electronic form to get acquainted in advance with it. Given the process of discussion with stakeholders, there is no guarantee that the text that will enter Parliament will be completely identical. It is possible that there are additions or minor changes in it. Let me get this straight. When we talk about the entry of the Law into force from 1 January 2016, we cannot afford to think only about the Law, as long as it is a framework application request is no less challenging than the development of the Law itself. Let me add one more thing to the necessary software security. Since it will be in effect from 1 January, we must be ready with all software applications that will allow these functionalities to be available related to the very rules of the Law. I would like to assure you that we are working at an extremely high rate, not only the Public Procurement Agency, which has done a lot of work in recent months, but also all other departments. Here, the main focus of our efforts is not only to fulfil our commitment as a Member State, transposing European legislation, but to have a better order of award, which, as far as possible, satisfies the claims of all participants in the process, both contracting entities and candidates, and contractors and control bodies. The time is not enough to point out the main accents. Perhaps the greatest imperative in the work of all experts so far was the norms, the texts to suggest a systematization, that things to be as simple as possible to be simple. This means less administrative burden, means less errors.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u185	Thank you. The next questions are from the MPs Georgi Bojinov and Georgi Gokov. They will be set in the order of art. 102, para. 4 because they are almost identical to the funds that are spent by the European funds and programmes under contracts for Information and publicity. Mr. Bojinov, come in. After you is Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u186	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The caretaker government and your government, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, are spending nearly 900,000. lv. on average per month, for short, for advertising of European funds. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. Three hundred thousand. lv. This period I have chosen because these are the data that your government publishes. I am well aware that during the entire first programming period, huge funds have been spent on all programmes by the operational bodies. Adding to that the costs that the beneficiaries of large projects have incurred, the amounts are getting really indecently large. However, these costs are regulated and eligible. So my question to you is: what are the objectives specifically pursued by the government by spending these funds, and what are the practical results of this? I do not ask who you are handing them out to or how it is likely that this is the question of the colleague. I ask: do you have the will to decisively cut these costs and define clearly what the public will be informed about, what publicity is being pursued and what optimum cost when we are looking for a better cost-benefit ratio? To attract society to something meaningful, not to empty content advertising videos. That's my question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u187	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Wait, Mr. Donchev, the question will also be asked by Mr. Gokov, as he is formulated in almost the same way. Then you will have the opportunity to answer in common. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! The publication of the funds spent on the implementation of the communication plans of the operational programmes started at Oresharski's office at the initiative of the then Deputy Prime Minister Zinaida Zlatanova. This good practice goes on and I congratulate you on that. The fifth report of the government was recently published on the contracts for information and publicity with EU funds. Simple accounts show that the caretaker government and the office of Boyko Borisov who came after him spent an average of about 900,000. lv. monthly for advertising of EU funds. I do not underestimate the importance and strength of advertising, and I know that according to European requirements, at least up to 4% of the budget of a programme are intended for these purposes, but against the backdrop of our tortured state, that is a lot of money. In the period, as Mr. Bojinov said, 6 August 2014 " 23 February 2015 contracts for more than 15 million have been concluded. Euros. Really paid amounts of radios, televisions, newspapers, Internet sites are over 6 million. lv. To the TV stations, about 3 million, the radios, 2 million, and less for print media. I won't mention them, you know them. The champions from the Ministry who spent the most will also not mention them. You know them. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u189	The audience doesn't know them, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u190	The minister will say them. I can quote them, but I won't fit in time. I would just point out that, in practice, the European advertising money is concentrated mainly in two or three radios and five or six televisions, and it is absolutely opaque. It is true that due to the specifics, namely the gaps and imperfections of the Bulgarian legislation, electronic media do not appear at a competition to apply for this money. As is the current situation, it is unacceptable for each minister to distribute them on his own and on his own terms. So, Minister, you buy media, and when you've already bought them, how will society expect them to behave responsibly, impartially and honestly? Although the Law on Radio and Television [[the President signals that time has run out]] does not allow political and economic interference in the activities of radio and television operators, guess what happens in practice.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u191	Please ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u192	The question is: how will we make sure that the work will be conducted solely by the interests of the viewer and not by other interests? The Bulgarian fairy tale is still valid that he who gives the money, he orders the music. In that regard, it's my question. The questions are very relevant to the effect of the money spent...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u193	Time's up, just two words.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u194	The question is: is the money for advertising EU funds in a transparent and objective way directed to the media? Will you create clear rules for a more transparent distribution of these funds?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u195	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Now he has the floor Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev to answer both questions in total. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u196	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Bojinov, Mr. Gokov! As far as your questions are concerned, if they are not identical, very close, I will allow myself to provide you with a summary answer. Before we get to the heart of the questions you are asking, I accept that there is a need for debate on this subject, and in depth, and not only in the context of the parliamentary control procedure, let us clarify something. The data published by the Government shall contain the data paid in the period 6 August 2014. " 23 February 2015" funds. These are contracts that are in the process of implementation and there has been a payment for the period. However, a large part of the contracts were concluded before that period, but are still in the process of implementation. The total amount paid for the period in question is close to 5 million. Five hundred thousand. BGN, I round them up and 75% of them, namely 4 million. Ninety-one thousand. BGN, with value added tax, are paid under contracts concluded by the Oresharski office. I don't like the numbers race, but the way you put it, I'm forced to provide similar data. To be more precise in the presentation of these data, I would like to add that contracts concluded at the time of the cabinet Borisov 1 and Borisov 2, for which payments are available for the period in question, are for 1.7........... and 1.4 million respectively. lv. with value added tax. While the total value of the contracts for which payments have been made for the same period again, by the Oresharski Office, about 7 million. 900,000. BGN, of which more than 50% had to be paid by the current cabinet. That's an important point! An important clarification and, I hope, the way in which you raise the question is due to insufficient information, not a desire to abuse the data. And from here, let's start a serious conversation about what is the effect of the money spent on information and publicity? Do they fulfill their goals and lead to any defects? I want to assure you that spending funds for information and publicity is part of the eligible costs. And it can reach 1% of all costs at all. Moreover, it is an obligation on a long list of reasons. The first reason is to be publicly known the solidarity of European taxpayers, to make it clear that what is being done with these funds as a result of the Cohesion Policy or the common agricultural policy. However, it is of national interest to be well informed, apart from the public, about everything that is happening, that is much more important to have in advance information on all funding opportunities. And this is the accent at the moment when we are talking about starting a programming period, because if anyone has had a chance to receive European funding and has not benefited from it, this is already a damage for me. Therefore, all channels, using traditional electronic media, internet, printed media, do not forget the network of information centers, must be mobilized so that we do not have any potential candidate or participant in a free funding scheme that has not benefited from its capabilities because it has not been informed in advance. It is quite another matter with regard to the content of some of the messages. That's not advertising money. It's a means of information and publicity. Does the content meet these high requirements and objectives that I have just commented on? If I have to be completely honest, not always, both as informational value and as aesthetics. Therefore, a major priority from now on, especially when we talk about the funds from the new programming period, is to talk about a much more coordinated and concentrated approach where we do not have an overlap of messages where messages and information campaigns follow a common logic for all financial instruments. As for the legality of the award, I would like to assure you that the provisions of both Bulgarian and European legislation are strictly followed. This process is monitored by all the verifiers from both the Bulgarian and the European auditors. And if there's a violation somewhere in the process, the department in question will pay in the literal sense of the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u197	Line one, by Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u198	Dear Minister, dear Madam Chairman! Although very similar, the questions had two radically different accents. The general answer erases this difference. I explicitly said that I did not ask to whom and how they were dealt, because if you look at this period, called the first programming period, you will find very similar actions in different governments. Very similar actions! That's why I asked: do you have the will to reduce this parasitic cost? And the second to go for something rational. And because the answer was common, I will tell you that, as a result of a revolutionary urge, a discussion was held in Brussels in the Commission and in Parliament why they are spending such a large amount. And the response to this revolutionary urge was a very mild political conclusion. It was as follows: With this money the governments support the media and the media support the governments. I didn't ask about that. I believe that since it is about information and publicity, apart from the beneficiaries who did not know, there are no potential beneficiaries in Bulgaria who do not know what opportunities the programs open, there are no such naiveties in Bulgaria. The society in the first period is informed about solidarity, about the benefits. Now is the time for such information, and you are a rational person, Mr. Minister, in which to offer alternatives so that not only beneficiaries can be offered, but also society can look for optimal solutions in that cost-benefit ratio for individual projects, because society will pay the maintenance of these sites and the fees and the landfills and the treatment stations, and the beneficiary has an interest in taking a large amount, and then society will pay the large fees. And that money is an alternative to projects, an alternative to technical solutions, a balance of the interest of the municipality, which the builder performs. He's looking for the big projects, and the public will pay the big fees. Therefore, I count on you as a rational person to review this size and direction of the content of this information and campaign. Thank you, I'm counting on you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u199	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Mr. Gokov, you have the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u200	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! I thank you for admitting that there is a need for debate on these issues. Thank you for your information about the Oresharski government. I do not wish to go back to the government of Boyko Borisov 1, because there are some very interesting information about media support, but I want to tell you that you did not answer my question: will you create clear rules for a more transparent distribution of these funds? Now I have told you the specifics and you know it, or rather not the specifics, but the gaps and imperfections of this Bulgarian legislation. Electronic media do not appear at a competition to apply for this money to become transparent how they receive them, by what rules, and each minister gives them out of his own hands and out of his own free will. I think that's unacceptable. And, again, Mr. Minister, this is how you buy media. Both in this complex social and political environment, which has been in our country for the past 25 years, and in the conditions of poverty and hardships of society, media should be called to objectively reflect public processes and ensure compliance with the rules of journalistic ethics in the dissemination of information. I sincerely hope that you will create such rules that will make this possible and do not lead to the dependence of these media on the political situation, because society has the right to receive credible information so that citizens can play an active role in the context of transparent democracy. I do not accept that society itself does not accept the possibility of political and institutional attempts to influence freedom of speech and their editorial dependence. Let us conduct ourselves and introduce in the relations state of media, European standards for their work, because in a democratic society objectivity and truth are mandatory, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u201	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. A hole, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u202	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will agree with some of the calls made by the two MPs. It is clear and clear that there is no way for anyone to challenge the need for guarantees that the distribution of funds for information and publicity should not lead to, for example, higher sympathies of one media to a minister or another political figure. And this is from a man who doesn't sign contracts for information and publicity. In this sense, you have no reason to doubt the truth of what I say. In addition, I cannot disagree with some of the findings at the same time. I draw attention to the fact that the award of electronic media, without following the usual procedure under the Public Procurement Act, is not a failure in the Bulgarian legislation, it comes from the European legislation, and if the issue in the old directives needed a certain degree of interpretation, in new directives the text is even more categorical in this direction. I am explaining because, for one reason or another, there has been a need in time for this matter and for me to examine it in extreme detail. There is no way I can agree with the opinion that this is de facto a mechanism at a European level where governments buy media comfort. Not that in some cases maybe someone is not trying to do something like this, I wouldn't rule out something like that, but the idea is another especially when we talk about cohesion policy. Let us not forget that when we talk about cohesion policy, we are not just talking about bricks, about reinforcements, about asphalt, about concrete, about pipes. We are talking about objectives, principles, priorities that need support, not just support for politicians, but support for citizens, which at some point will catalyze as support for policies in this area. Let us not forget that especially in recent years, especially after the start of the crisis, cohesion policy is under extreme pressure. When we try to upload the debate to the European level, it is normal to invest modestly as part of the common financial framework, funds for information and publicity. Otherwise, I am the last one to claim that all the funds that have been spent in the years back from the very beginning, even before membership in the European Union, have been spent in the best way. We have a lot of bad examples, starting from the campaign "Be active" when people didn't know how to be active "Be active" under "Be active" there wasn't a single open program in what way to show their activity and get to other examples back in the years "for example, a large billboard advertising the Rural Development Program against the background of a blanking level that causes more smiles than motivation. I repeat, he needs a serious debate. It concerns not only the mechanisms, not only the transparency requirements, as you can see, there is still good practice to publish all references to expenditures, this practice will continue, but also about content, whether it achieves its objectives. Let me get back to what I just said about me the main goal, besides the popularity of what has been done, is everyone interested to know. Let us not forget that, apart from companies, other than municipalities, other than institutions that are in the role of beneficiaries, many of the measures involved are individuals. The end user is natural persons. In some cases these are people who neither have access to consulting aid nor work and live in such social circles where someone could give them information. That's where the main accent should be. And otherwise, despite the famous degree political emotions, thank you for the question. With pleasure, with the personal position that I have, I will participate in all future discussions related to the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u203	Thank you, Mr. Donchev, for participating in today's parliamentary control. Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin is now in line with the Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy. It will be addressed by the People's Representative Ivan Slavov Ivanov on priorities in the government policy for the Southeast Development Region, in particular in Sliven region, for positive changes in the employment sectors, standard of living, demographic development with orientation to the most affected strata in society. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u204	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Sliven Region is an important constituent administrative and territorial unit within the South-Eastern planing region. The region has an interesting social, demographic and economic characteristic, but if we can talk about the forming areas of Stara Zagora and Burgas with admiration because of the visible positive trends in their socio-economic development, the same can not be said for Sliven District, because by 2002 Sliven is in the tenth of the districts with a contribution to gross domestic product for the country of a person of the population, then two years ago the district is already preceding. In the Sliven region there are a set of paradoxically disturbing indications of growing anxiety about the state of the population. The district has the largest relative share in the country of a growing population up to the age of 18. It also has the largest relative share of a population benefiting from social benefits, according to the share of unemployed citizens, of children in pre-school because of the lack of places in kindergartens and nurseries, with the largest share of dropouts from school, and with the lowest average salary of the employed seven times lower than the average salary of workers in the Southeastern planing region. Compared to other areas in the Southeast region, Sliven is also with the least spent funds from European funds and European programmes. In addition to these critical indicators for the Sliven region, the problems of unregulated incomes are extremely severe, where income sources have long been on the attention of European specialized authorities on drug trafficking, human trafficking, prostitution in the city and abroad. Because of all of this, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I ask you to answer: what policies would you propose to the state institutions and local authorities in Sliven to ensure that the problems raised are handled, to stimulate successful education, employment, to normalise income through productive work and to minimize violations?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u205	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u206	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Slavov, you are asking me a question that should not be addressed to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u207	And is it even for control, Mr. Kalfin?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u208	Because jobs are created by business, as we know. The fact is that in Sliven district, compared to other areas in the Southeastern region, economic and social indicators are much weaker. This is largely due to the activity of the local authorities and the initiative and to attracting investment and to improving social infrastructure, including the one that is of municipal service. It was about schools, kindergartens and so on. These are commitments of local authorities, otherwise we cannot compare two different areas or two different municipalities in the same region, which are very close together and see similar differences. Obviously, they have an explanation. As for the topic that is related to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, I can introduce you to the measures that we are taking to support employment, which, again, I would say, are not enough. Employment is created not by social programs, but by the economy and by business. In general, in Sliven, the wage is really low, but its growth in the last six years since 2007 is relatively higher than the average for the state. With 6% per year, the national average is 3%. Currently under regional training and employment programmes are provided with six-month jobs for 60 unemployed persons; According to the project of the SNSB "Shant for work" "also funded by the social programs " 90 carers are currently being trained in Sliven, 40% of them must be employed. The Bulgarian-German centers prepare 48 people. The project "Support for employment" currently has 330 jobs that are being opened and the new Youth Employment Programme, which has started since the beginning of this year, has 139 jobs for young people up to 29 years of age. These are social problems. These are programs that help employers train or hire people. I cannot in this way, I am aware, answer the question as you are asking it, but the investment climate in a municipality and in one area clearly depends on the state and the activity of the area itself and the local authorities. With social programs lasting jobs cannot be created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u209	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. Two additional supplementary supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u210	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for the answer I received. One of my objectives is to put Sliven's problems in public and to confirm our understanding that they cannot be solved without the clear attitude and commitment of the government of the Republic of Bulgaria. Of course, I am pleased, taking into account the opportunities that your Ministry has, and the functions that you carry as Deputy Prime Minister. I realize that the real support of business could also find its place through employment programmes, but also through conditions in which, in partnership, a country and a municipality could develop and change. Moreover, just a year ago, the group, which I have the honour of representing, received trust and support, which was growing over time because of a message, the promise that we will work to preserve the Bulgarian one. Part of the conditions to preserve it is exactly the fight for the interests of those people who every day need support to be able to prove themselves. No questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u211	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You won't use the hole. A question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov concerning measures developed by the Ministry to optimize staff costs up to their size, established by the annual Budget Act and their effect.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u212	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the issue is provoked by rumors of layoffs, serious concerns and tensions of employees in the structures of your ministry. In accordance with PMS No 8 of 16 January 2015. By 15 February 2015, the authorising officers responsible shall develop measures to optimise staff costs up to the amounts established by the Act on the annual budget and, if necessary, take action to amend the Rules of Procedure. The automatic implementation of this non-recycling norm means that 10% of the employees of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and secondary officers with budget must be released. In other words, over 800 people are about to lose their jobs. Adding employees from the Agency for Social Assistance and the Employment Agency, which perform the functions of intermediate units under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" which are not provided for in the new programming period, the number of redundant in 2015 alone will be over 1000 people, while those registered in the labour offices in the country are not few more than 360 thousand, while nearly one million and two hundred thousand people receive social services. In this regard, a few questions arise, the first of which is: what will be the effect of the upcoming cuts in the system of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for the most vulnerable Bulgarian citizens - the people with disabilities, the mothers, the unemployed and the poor, who are the main users of the agencies of the Ministry? How many people will be at risk of loss or inability to exercise their legally guaranteed rights? What structural and organisational measures will you take to compensate for the loss of trained specialists, most of whom have a solid service in the relevant administration, so that the appropriate administrations are adequate to perform at least a minimum of their statutory functions? What is the amount of the expected budget losses from non-installed administrative sanctions related to the reduction of the state, narrowing the scope of the control activities of the Executive Agency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u213	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u214	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, the exercise related to the reduction of public administration expenditure is not done for the first time and you know that well. Generally, it is often at the beginning of each government's mandate that the requirements for administration be tightened. What you mentioned as a decision of the government and a decree of the Council of Ministers is related to limiting staff costs in each office, not to the number employed. There are two problems here. One problem is about jobs in the Ministry. The second problem relates to the level of wages, as pay, especially in the Employment Agency and in the Social Assistance Agency, is one of the low in the country. And these are people who often work quite hard, sometimes risky jobs. So their resonant demands to raise wages could also be added to the question you are asking. My requirement as Minister is to cut costs by 8.5 million. lv. For this year's staff. The decision I have made and which I have proposed to the Ministry of Finance is related to the following. First of all, there is an analysis of the functions and services provided by the agencies and bodies of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. These services will in no way be degraded. Moreover, this year we are developing a pilot project, which will also be financed under the Operational Programme........ which allows us to test in many regions in the country so called one-stop shop..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This pilot project will enable us to alleviate some of the staff costs related to the state budget, will enable us to look at at least in the coming year, year and a half better organisation and better services to be provided to citizens. Then we will decide whether we will continue and how we will continue this experiment. There are no plans and I have no intention of making 10% cuts in the structure of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. With regard to the General Labour Inspection and some other smaller agencies, there are single cuts that are mainly related to job vacancies or people who go into retirement age. In principle, the capacity of the Ministry and its agencies, I can assure you, not only will it not decrease, but will increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u215	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. The line, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u216	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. With this answer you partly distract the doubts and concerns of the people working in the structures of the Ministry. Thank you for your answer, where you mention that you are also thinking about the level of wages, because really wages in the social sphere are the lowest. The working conditions aren't the best. When we talk about increasing wages, remember also about improving working conditions. It is good that you are doing an analysis of the functions of the Ministry and of the activities performed, but why now? I am sure that you have not forgotten our position of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria and of the trade unions when we adopted the state budget for 2015 and the budget of the DVO. It was that we did not accept mechanical reduction in the public administration. Why didn't you do this analysis before and then say that in the structures that work directly with the citizens in order not to violate the services they receive will not be made such cuts? I sincerely hope that what you promised will not be such a reduction in the state-led structures of the Employment Agency, the Social Assistance Agency, the Labour Inspectorate General, and why not the National Insurance Institute (NSI)? At the time of the adoption of the budget of the NSI, I asked: how in the framework of a reduced budget of 10% will it retain the composition of the NSI? Now consider it an additional question: how, within the budget we have, at 8.5 million, will we keep those people working right now? It is not a solution to the issue of removing activities from the ministry or from the ministry's structures to external suppliers because it is a temporary solution to the matter, and it turns out that sometimes it is more expensive if they remain in the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u217	A hole, Mr. Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u218	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Gokov, I have answered you about the composition of the ministry. You know very well that the NSI is a separate structure. It is governed on a triparty principle. As far as I know, in the NSI, indeed, according to the Law on DVO, which is undertaken, there is also a limitation of costs. Once again, the solution is not to reduce people, but to limit costs. Each head of an office is aware of how he could do this thing and how to combine it with those working in the respective office. What I forgot to tell you in the answer to the question. You have also mentioned the intermediate units that have worked on the current Programme.......................... at the Employment Agency and the Social Assistance Agency. The Agency for Social Assistance is currently building a new managing body, the new aid programme for the poorest. Either way, the two intermediate units still have a lot of work to do until they finish their tasks, and then, for the next programming period, there will really be no intermediate units in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. There will be a governing body that is in the ministry itself, but from next year we will look. Where there's a good capacity, we'll keep it. I think this is one of the best units that is currently working on European projects. At least that's the results. I assure you, we will not miss a good capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u219	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin, for participating in today's parliamentary control. Next are the questions and answers to Minister Ivelina Vasileva, Minister of Environment and Water. Mr. Georgi Bozhinov will be the first to develop his question on the progress in approving the Operational Programme "Environment" and the measures expected to start in 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u220	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! This is at the moment when I have asked the question, more than 250 programmes financed by European funds for the new programming period 2014-2020 to a total of more than 256 billion. Euros. At the beginning of March Bulgaria has 4 approved programs, among which are not the two largest in volume, including the Environment. My question to you is: what are the reasons for the delayed approval of the programs? Are they not now the same for both major programmes, and what are the open questions in the versions adopted by our government and sent to the European Commission and which measures will start in 2015? Since you have already announced some of the measures that you hope will start, I ask you the additional question: what you are reporting is within our version or is it derived from your confidence that it will be agreed with the European Commission?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u221	For a response Minister Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u222	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bozhinov, with Operational Programme "Environment" 2014-2020 The priorities for environmental financing with European funds shall be defined. The programme's budget amounts to nearly 3.5 billion. lv. The programme focuses on the construction of a water infrastructure; reducing the amount of municipal waste deposited through measures, according to the waste management hierarchy; managing the areas of the Natura 2000 network; prevention and management of the risk of floods and landslides; improving the quality of the air; Last year's impact on the discussions with the Commission on the programme text for the period 2014-2020 was the suspension of payments on the previous one. Nearly one year of expenditure under the programme has not been recovered by the Commission, which has affected beneficiaries and made it difficult to manage the programme. Therefore, our main task following the government's inauguration was to restore dialogue with the Commission services and prepare the Commission's management and audit control systems. As is well known, payments under the programme were reimbursed in November 2014, then, thanks to the full mobilisation of both the beneficiaries and the managing authority, the registered delay was overcome. As a result of the restored dialogue and trust in the framework of the active negotiations with the European Commission, a solution was found to almost all open issues that concern the approval of the programme. The open issues are mainly related to investment in the water sector. The investments in the Sector "Waters" during the programming period 2014 - 2020 will be targeted at agglomerations of more than 10 thousand. Resident equivalent. The conditions of the European Commission for implementing measures in the water sector with EU funds are: - implementation of the reform of the water sector by 2016, which is a precondition under the Partnership Agreement; - following a regional approach in the preparation and implementation of investments, i.e. to implement projects in the territory to be served by a consolidated water service operator; - before starting investment, regional pre-investment studies are prepared to identify the long-term needs of construction or reconstruction of water infrastructure and beneficiaries to build the water infrastructure are the water operators. At the moment, the Commission is discussing the possibility of implementing early and phased projects prior to the preparation of regional pre-investment studies so as not to stop the investment process and the absorption of European funds, as well as to ensure an even distribution of time, the commitment of the construction industry. Another issue that is the subject of discussion is the role of municipalities in implementing water projects, because we believe that they should have an active partner role in the implementation of such investments. In 2015, according to the Annual Operational Programme of the Operational Programme, the Environment is planned to announce 11 procedures for granting grants and this will happen after the final coordination of the text with the Commission. We hope so very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u223	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Come in for a cue in two minutes, Mr. Bozhinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u224	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, I would like to thank you for your many details and, I think, exactly describing the situation response. From the open questions, I understand that the Commission is holding the beneficiary of the projects in the Axis of Water to be the operators. This creates some problems for our country. What do you think the solution will be? This one first. Secondly, are their condition for the so-called... preliminary studies... that you are talking about to the Ministry of Regional Development......................................................................................... That question remains open. For me, there is no copy of any government or participation, the money that we spent on the so-called master master plans, large money remains in the folders, do they have any expert task to ease the development of these regional preliminary studies, or did we do that to make some money, we will do this as a condition to take the other money? I mean, a greater system. And last nuance: this third stage of the integrated project for Sofia you include it in those who informed me that you would ask for it. When will we apply, when do you count that when we receive them, we will design and implement this third stage, because when we release the second stage, the problem will arise what the product of the plant will do. This is also a real problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u225	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. A hole, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mr. Bozhinoff! Thank you, too, for the support of the people's representation in relation to those I defend to the European Commission. I think that we all share the view that investments in the water sector, which are complex, large-scale, and where administrative capacity has been built for years among the municipalities that own the infrastructure, need to be implemented with the strong participation of both the water operators that carry in them the technical capacity and the municipalities. That's our thesis. This is what we defend and believe we have an understanding from the Commission. As far as regional pre-investment studies are concerned, this is an important element of the implementation of the water reform, as set out in the Strategy for Development and Management of the Water Sector adopted by Bulgaria in 2014. Regional pre-investment studies will also be funded with technical assistance under the Operational Programme "Environment" which will be provided to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, which is responsible for the policy in the water sector. These are strategic, planning documents that build on the general plans, the so-called master plans that you talked about. In other words, at the hierarchic level, regional pre-investment studies aim in more detail to investigate the priority components that are laid down in regional plans to provide information on the scope of regional projects to be financed, components thereof, and financial economic analyses that form an integral part of them. That is to say, this is the first priority and one of the first procedures that we will announce to provide funding to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the development of these regional pre-investment studies. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] As regards the Project for the third phase of the integrated project for the development of the waste management system in the territory of Sofia Municipality according to the indicative annual work programme in the third quarter of this year, an invitation for a project proposal from the municipality will be announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u227	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Second issue from the National Representative Georgi Bozhinov on the cost-benefit ratio for the construction of sites under the Operational Programme "Environment" and the changes in the price of the service for the population carried out by the operators of these sites. Here you go, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One sentence, comment on the previous answer, and we move on to that question. Thank you really for your answer. Only the issue remains open by starting to recruit candidates for the third phase and releasing the second in the middle of this year remains to be resolved where we will deposit the product in the second phase. You'll think about it. This question that I'm asking you right now, I'm going to sound particularly powerful next year. It is about the cost-benefit ratio for the construction of sites under the Operational Programme "Environment" and the changes in the prices of services for the population carried out by the operators of these sites. My point, Mrs. Minister, is that the well calculated cost-benefit ratio for the construction of sites under the Operational Programme is extremely important because the costs of building sites are later reflected in the cost of the service to be carried out by operators. My question is: in addition to how we will look for a solution in both the water sector and in the waste sector to be cost socially bearable and to meet that price of the service that will require the value of the site, what we will do in the future to inform the population when we look for the optimal result for this ratio, because I explain: it is one thing to build a large treatment plant with many leading collectors, another might be the solution for mobile treatment plants with short collectors. In addition to the interests of the investor and the beneficiary with information about the population in choosing the optimal option, we must engage the population as well. Do you think this will be a new moment in the next planning period?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u229	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Here you are, Madam Minister, for your response within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u230	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Bozhinov! As you have mentioned, the infrastructure projects in the sector of Water and Waste, which the Environment Programme is financing, generating revenue and after their completion. The rules of European regulations require an economic analysis of the costs and benefits of building the infrastructure concerned in order to determine the co-financing by the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund. The Managing Authority of the Operational Programme 2007 "Environment" 2013, as well as when announcing the calls for project proposals, and in their assessment, has given wide voice to the European Commission's guidelines regarding the methodology applied to the preparation of the analyses "costs and benefits". This fact is well known to all beneficiaries of the programme. Regarding the impact of the cost of building infrastructure sites on the value of the service concerned, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is competent to do so, which determine the structure and value of the cost of water and the municipal councils responsible for determining the waste charge for the year concerned. Undoubtedly social tolerance is a significant component of this, a mandatory element to be respected. The managing authority of the operational programme shall have responsibility for the precise determination of the amount of funding from the ESI Funds. In carrying out this responsibility, the managing authority shall be guided by the instructions of the European Commission. This approach will also be followed in the new programming period 2014-2020 for all projects generating revenue. As regards the planned activities and funds for the promotion of Operational Programme "Environment 2014" - 2020, they aim to ensure maximum publicity and transparency in the management and implementation process of the Programme and its projects. Communication and publicity measures are envisaged not only at programme level, but also in individual projects in order to inform the local public to the maximum extent and to engage with specific results. The beneficiaries of the Operational Programme "Environment 2014" will be responsible not only for the explanatory activities of the specific project they carry out, but also for promoting its contribution to improving the quality of the life of the population. This commitment of beneficiaries is among the main requirements in the application guidelines for the projects of the operational programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u231	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Bojinov, come in for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u232	Dear Minister, dear Mr. Chairman! Thank you for that answer, too. Everything you say is true. We listened this week to the candidates for the KEWRC, and because these are competent people, it became clear from their answers that although the procedure has been run, as you said, by laying down the four regulatory parameters for determining a socially bearable price, in many of the regions we will have to make the decision on the This will probably be a big problem in the next period. In all the analyses that have been carried out for the eligibility of the projects that have been carried out so far, it has not been accounted for. That's why I think we're going to need to do this account very precisely from now on. You know that there enter the average income for the region, you enter that number that is at stake outside that can not exceed 4, but in other places 2% of the income of a family member, plus a minimum amount of water and all this needs to be updated, because society will have to look for money for both the water weak and waste the weak who cannot pay and the energy weak. Because they are 60% of the population will become impossible for the budget, that is, this must be observed very strictly from now on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u233	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bozhinov, as you have mentioned, there is no doubt that the standards laid down in the Law are respected. The pricing approach in the water sector, as you said, is related to the provision of reinvestment opportunities, and will also be applied during the new programming period in accordance with the European Commission's guidelines on the preparation of financial analyses of projects. I would like to point out that under the legislation, social tolerance is 4% of the average income of a household for the specific territory, and according to the rules of the operational programme not more than 2,5%. The approach during the new programming period will be regulated after a thorough review of the rules on the determination of the tariffs of the water services, which is carried out with the assistance of the World Bank, within the framework of a project implemented by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, funded by Operational Programme In addition, one of the main activities of the project is to strengthen the capacity of the national regulator to implement the approach, including functional analysis and proposals for amendments to the relevant regulatory framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u235	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is from the National Representative Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov on some candidates admitted to participate in the competitions for appointment of directors of Regional Environmental Inspections. Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! From the information published on 10 March 2015 on the website of the Ministry of Environment and Waters regarding the list of applicants admitted to the second stage of the competition for the positions of directors of RIEW Burgas, Vratsa, Pernik, Plovdiv, Stara Zagora, Montana and Ruse, I was impressed that the names of former directors of RIEW, such as those of Penka Nacheva, RIOSV, Stara Zagora, and Boycho Georgiev, were admitted to these competitions, which in the recent past became the cause of the outbreak of numerous scandals, which later grew into sharp public discontent and protests. Some NGOs have already signalled the possibility of compromised former RIEW leaders returning to their seats by participating in the competitions. For example, Mrs. Nacheva's name was a catalyst for the discontent of tens of thousands of inhabitants in the eco-inspection-controlled municipalities because of the gassings of the town of Stara Zagora and Radnevo, as well as because of the eco-resolvations issued for landfills, careers poisoning the rivers of waste water by enterprises without effective treatment plants, almost promiscuous tire burnings and other harmful to nature and human health pollution in the region of Stara Zagora. Mr. Georgiev, on the other hand, laid the foundation of the scandal at the RIEW Burgas, on the occasion of which a prosecutor's inquiry is under way, as well as the illegal construction of the territory of the Reserve, which he was later dismissed for, and his appeal for the illegal dismissal was dismissed by the court. Without any remorse of conscience, I defend the opinion that the professional and moral qualities of experts in the structures of the Ministry of Environment and Water are of particular importance, as this group of employees make major decisions at regional level in the field of environmental protection and unacceptable solutions find and will continue to find sharp public response. In this regard, my question to you is: will appropriate measures be taken to prevent the return of management positions in the RIEW of persons with public fame, such as those mentioned above?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u237	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Madam Minister, your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ibryamov! At the end of 2009, by Decree No 274 of the Council of Ministers for the adoption of the Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Environment and Water, the competition was introduced for secondary officers with a budget to the Minister of Environment and Water, including the Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency, Director of Regional Environmental and Water Inspections, Directors of Directorates of National Parks and Directors of Basin Directorates, as well as for the Executive Director of the Enterprise for the Management of Environmental Activities. The competition start is a means of both objective selection of the most professionally prepared candidate and raising public confidence in the way the heads of the regional structures of the Ministry of Environment and Water are appointed. The idea of the competition consists in the appointment of the Director of the RIEW to be carried out through competition based on the professional qualities of the candidates. The competitions shall be held in accordance with art. 90 - 96 of the Labour Code, with the results of each stage of the competition procedure being published on the Ministry's website to ensure transparency. The competitions for directors of RIEW "Stara Zagora and RIEW " are held in compliance with the regulations of labour law. The admission to competition shall be carried out by an appointed five-member committee. The assessment shall be carried out on the basis of the documents submitted by the applicant, whether they comply with the minimum and specific requirements set out in the advertisement. In accordance with the requirement of the Administration Act for Heads of State Institutions to appoint persons who are not convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature, applicants shall apply a declaration of this circumstance to applications for participation in the contest. No persons who have not submitted the necessary documents and who do not meet the minimum and specific requirements of the advertisement shall be admitted to the competition. The Labour Code does not provide any other grounds for limiting the participation of persons in competition procedures. When announcing a vacancy, the employer shall not be entitled to lay down requirements which may call into question the right of any person to equality before the law and equality in treatment and in the opportunities for participation in public life. All competition procedures held in the Ministry of Environment and Water shall respect the principles of equality and shall not allow discrimination, privileges or restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u239	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Ibryamov, come in for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! Thanks for the comprehensive answer. I am convinced that all requirements are met. Parliamentary control is precisely about asking questions to which we are being answered here, and yet acting soberly to the administration that you are in charge of. Perhaps after this interesting and up-to-date issue, action has been taken without saying what qualities and characteristics people are with, they should not be admitted to a competition, because at the moment there is no elected director in Burgas, and in RIEW the Stara Zagora is chosen another woman for which I congratulate you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u241	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. It's a hole, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u242	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ibryamov! As you mentioned, the competition has already ended, the Commission has made the ranking as required in the advert. For the position of "Director" of the Regional Environmental Inspectorate and Waters in Burgas there is no qualified candidate for the position of "Director" of the Regional Inspectorate of Environment and Waters in Stara Zagora was ranked Petya Papazova in the first place. As is apparent, the cited persons have not won the competitions for the positions in the two regional inspections, but I would like to stress once again that the criteria which have been observed during the competition procedure are fully in line with the principles laid down in the Law, with the principles relating to non-discrimination in admission to participation of candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u243	Thank you. Thank you, Madam Minister, for participating in today's parliamentary control. In the order of the questions followed the answers of Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture and Food. [[(Mister Desislava Taneva enters the Chamber. (Applause)]] Here you go, Mrs. Taneva. The first question to Ms. Taneva is from the MPs Ivan Stankov and Georgi Kuchukov about illegal logging, timber exports and the shortage of raw material for wood processing enterprises in the Republic of Bulgaria. The question will put Mr. Stankov in two minutes. Here you go, Professor. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u244	Dear Mr. President, honourable gentlemen and ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In recent days, weeks and months, many talk about the Bulgarian forest and it can be said that the system is already overexploited. Since our question has long been waiting, perhaps more than a month, a month and a half, we will only now put this question again about the condition of the Bulgarian forests. After all that has been done at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, after all the discussions and measures taken, there is still illegal logging and the export of wood. This is based on information that came to us last, so again we want to ask the question: what is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food doing? We know that measures have been taken, and very serious. We know that the Forest Law is being prepared, which will bring together all the proposals so far. We also want to know if the Bulgarian processors are satisfied with enough raw material and can they work normally? That's our question. I'll make this brief so the rest of my colleagues can have some time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u245	Thank you, Professor. Stankov. Madam Minister, please come in for your answer within 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u246	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Stankov, honourable MPs! I would like to say that the question has indeed been asked since the beginning of February, and I have also insisted and wanted to be included in the parliamentary control, but I have not been in the order until now. It is apparent from the official data of the National Statistical Institute for the past 15 years that exports of raw wood from the country to third countries, dispatching it to Member States of the European Union, ranges from 3 to 15% of total timber production in the country, exported or sent timber is mainly deciduous wood species, predominantly wood for technological processing and burning wood. This wood is not used by furniture factories due to its lower quality. The share of exported, consigned and raw coniferous timber, which is the raw material of furniture companies for the same period, is irrelevant and ranges to 4% of the total exported and sent amount of wood from the country. In connection with the decision of the National Assembly adopted on 4 March 2015 on the prohibition of exports and dispatch of raw timber, promulgated in the Official Journal of the European Union, pc. 18, by my order of 10 March 2015, I banned the export of raw timber for a period of three months. This is a measure which was requested and adopted by many of the MPs from the various parliamentary groups. Under the Customs Act, customs supervision and control over the import, export and transit of goods for, from and through the Republic of Bulgaria is carried out by the customs authorities. The control over the transport of wood within the territory of the country is carried out by employees of the Executive Agency for Forests and its structures, by employees of state forest enterprises and their territorial divisions and by employees of the Ministry of Interior. The joint work of those competent authorities and emergency measures taken by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food shall prevent the transport and export of timber from taking place. As regards the resource security of furniture and wood processing enterprises, it should be noted that the sale of timber obtained from state forests is carried out by conducting public open competition procedures, subject to the requirements of the current regulations. Unfortunately, according to the weather, precipitation and the orders I issued at the beginning of this year on the access of relevant vehicles to forests, there are indeed difficulties in supplying processing plants with wood. The approved quantities of timber for extraction and sale in 2015 by state-owned enterprises, according to their annual plans of use, are for a total of 4 million. 300 cube. m, which is 90% of the average annual use. Particularly with regard to the large construction wood targeted by the search for furniture plants, 905 thousand are provided. Cube. m or 90% of the average annual use. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In December 2014 the state forest...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u247	In your asshole, you'll finish your thought. Thank you. Here's your line, Professor. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u248	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! My line will be very brief. As I said before, I know it's very serious. In these three months, there are already concrete things. The thing that happened is that the logging companies united and made a horizontal good integration, which is very positive. I'm just going to take the liberty of recommending something based on the fact that in the office two years ago, we tried to do a vertical integration. There was something very interesting there between forestry workers, timber mills and wood processors. Several times they got together, put all the problems together and sought solutions together. I believe that the time has come to make a federation and I think it will be good for the Bulgarian forests, for the Bulgarian wood processing and perhaps the logging houses will finally be satisfied. So I recommend this to you, and I hope that happens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u249	Thank you, Professor. Stankov. Madam Minister, develop your thought within 2 minutes in the form of a duplicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u250	Perhaps to finish my point at the exhibition, just to say that in December 2014 state and forest enterprises conducted procedures from the first bidding session for the sale of timber from their annual plans for use for 2015. A total of 1 million. 300 thousand cubic metres of timber was offered for sale by auction or competitions, or that is 30% of the quantities of approved annual wood use plans for 2015. What do I mean in conclusion? Thank you, Professor. Stankov, for advice. In the Forest Week, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food initiated a package of regulatory changes in the acts governing the control of activities in forest areas, their conservation and their management. The relevant public consultation procedure has been in progress since the day before yesterday. These acts are uploaded on the site of the Executive Forest Agency. A change in the Forests Act has been proposed, amendments to three regulations have been proposed, as proposed for adoption of a new regulation for the adoption of the forestry plans of the forest areas. What do I mean? In all the changes we have initiated, their aim is to be effective and real control of activities in forest areas. Species of logging that strip all forest areas shall be prohibited. In addition, all activities in forest areas carried out in the dark part of the day shall be prohibited. The time limits for certification of forests are reduced and the corresponding penalties for offenders in forest areas are changed, because now one of the problems is that there is no effect of these penalties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u251	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev on the holding of the first tender session of the Lesofunda 2015 under the Forest Act. Mr. Danev, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, at the end of December 2014 with some delay was held the first wood auction session from the lesofunda for 2015. In the Executive Forest Agency in the Ordinance on the terms and conditions for the award of activities in the forestry territories, in art. 75a says that long-term contracts for the implementation of these activities are allowed to employ a sub-contractor. The only criterion for the successful auctions is the price and for the people in the industry it is worrying that large packages of activities are earned by companies that subsequently give the activities to subcontractors. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53, para. 3, p. 1 and 2 the only criterion is the highest price. Our question to you is: is it possible to include another criterion such as collateralisation of the applicant to carry out the relevant activities? In this regard, our question to you is: has the results of the tenders carried out in state enterprises been analysed? What is the quantity of agreed wood, including the price level reached by wood categories? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u253	Thank you, Mr. Danev. Mrs. Minister, your response will be within three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u254	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Danev, I can immediately answer you that, as amended by the Ordinance on logging, which is subject to public consultation, additional conditions are provided for the different procedures for the use of wood. In accordance with art. 9, para. 2, p. 1 of the Ordinance on the terms and conditions for the award of activities in the forestry territories.. State and municipal property, and on the use of wood and non-woody forest products, I said it a little while ago, in the months of November and December procedures were carried out for 30 percent of the annual plan for use of wood for the following calendar year. In view of the large volume of transitional sites for 2015 for the extraction and sale of wood due to the poor weather conditions for logging in 2014, and the contracts already concluded for the urgent utilisation of wood damaged by natural disasters and calamithetes, the implementation of procedures for the use of wood by state-owned enterprises and their territorial divisions were suspended for a period of two weeks. However, with effect from 1 December 2014, procedures have been restored, including pilot procedures for the conclusion of long-term timber mining contracts. It is apparent from the results submitted by the committees which conducted the procedures for the use of wood in December 2014 that at the first auction session they were offered for sale by auction or contest a total of 1 million. Six hundred thousand. Cube. m of wood or 37 per cent of the quantities under approved annual plans. About two thirds of this quantity was offered for sale as standing wood on the root, and the remaining one third by selling forecast quantities of wood from stock. In open competitions for the award of wood production, 860 thousand were proposed. Cube. m of wood. Over 95 percent of the quantities proposed for sale are purchased and there are isolated cases of no candidates for sites with unattractive wood or wood without demand on the market at the moment. As a result of the competitive procedures for the sale of wood, there was an increase in the sales prices reached on average from 2.6 percent on the sale of standing wood and from 4 percent on the sale of wood from a warehouse. New contracts for the sale of 900,000 were signed. Cube. m of wood and for the extraction of 600 thousand. Cube. m. I can say that unfortunately, regardless of our order, there were some state forestry farms within the scope of the respective state divisions of state enterprises which entrusted not 30% but far more percentages to this first bidding session. This was done in an extremely short period of time, which brings the thought of set procedures. This was done in some enterprises at the end of November last year. We will monitor the process and accordingly take measures with regard to the managers of such state forest farms. I'm running out of time, or I can quote some of them. If you have company data, I can give you information on a specific line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u255	Who's going to use the law? Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u256	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! You know that when we discussed the Public Procurement Act, the forestry sector was excluded from this Law because regulations had to regulate these relations. The Regulation on the award of activities lays down rules which must be found not to have been complied with during this tender session. Firstly, an important requirement for the initiation of the procedure is the coordination between the Ministry of Agriculture, State Enterprises and respectively the industry organizations. This was supposed to happen by September 30th. It is imperative that the results of this coordination be published on the pages of the Ministry of Agriculture. Unfortunately, all attempts to open such a protocol from a meeting were not successful, which means to me that this procedure has not been complied with, although it is a requirement and obligation under the Ordinance. As you said, the procedure was delayed. The fact that there is only a choice of companies based on a price offer has no requirements has led to the fact that there are many companies that have won the tender procedures and have contracts but appear as missionaries to offer the wood to the processing companies. Furthermore, the auctions were centralised. Every year there are different rules. One year the state-owned enterprises hold the auctions, this year there is centralisation in the state-owned enterprises. What was the purpose, what was the idea for this thing to happen? Rather, it seems to me that this is how the entire process is centralized who should win the procedures. I wish I could get an answer to the question about future procedures to be conducted. Will the Ministry of Agriculture register the companies that have won public procurement and these procedures? Such a register is missing despite requests that are necessary, and very difficult to find information on who are the ones who have won the orders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u257	Thank you, Professor. Bachvarova. Madam Minister, come in, you have the floor for the last of the day's doppelganger in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u258	First, dear Mrs. Bachvarova, to tell you that the amendments to the Regulation on logging are uploaded to the site and whatever suggestions for changes you have, you can make them. Secondly, I can't be responsible for anything that wasn't done by September 30th. Thirdly, I can say that all procedures that are being carried out have become public and can be found on the Forest Executive Agency's website. Fourth, I can say that the procedures in the part of the first session carried out in our mandate were, of course, done by rules aimed at preventing local dependencies in the various state forestry departments of the state forestry enterprises. You probably have affected individuals in these procedures. They were not centralized, but were made in a district centre, with people and staff on rotation from other divisions present in the committees. They weren't centralized at all. Somewhere exactly the kind of local companies that have been used so far have sabotaged the procedures, motivating them to fail and no one to participate to take place in the old order. I don't agree with your claim at all. On the contrary, rules were adopted in the part where procedures for the first bidding session were carried out to eliminate local dependencies. Since a large part of the directors were appointed during your term of office and sabotaged everything, there are examples of state forest farms, for example the state-owned agriculture, Oryahovo. It played 71% of its 2015 plan at the first bidding session against any rules and attempt to change them. That's the truth. There are other such holdings with 70%, and I have one that has made 100% of its plan at the first auction session. The changes are underway. If you are well-intentioned to protect the forest, you can make proposals and not seek responsibility from the current mandate for action before 30 September 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-03.u259	Thank you, Minister Taneva, for participating in today's parliamentary control. I thank my colleagues for their active participation in today's plenary day. The next regular meeting is on Wednesday 8 April, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
