ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the extraordinary plenary session. According to our decision from the previous Friday, it has an agenda point only: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE CODEX PROJECT FOR CONSERVATION. The Council of Ministers adopted the first vote on 7 October 2015. Message: The National Assembly received material from the National Statistical Institute containing statistical research results on consumer price indices for November 2015. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. A report by the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism on the second vote of the draft Insurance Code will take over the first reporting of this volume bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u2	Dear President, honourable Members, I am doing a procedure on the grounds of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules for Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for Access to the Hall of Mr. Feyzi Bekir, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Milena Dimitrova, State Expert in the Directorate of State Debt and Financial Markets, Mrs. Rumyana Gerova, Senior Expert in the Directorate of State Debt and Financial Markets and Financial Supervision: Mrs. Ralitsa Agajin Guri, Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, Head of the Management Board and by the Ministry of Internal Affairs: Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, and Mr. Tihomir Todorov, Inspector in the Ministry of Police.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u3	We vote. They voted 123 MPs: 117, against 3, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests. We're listening, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u4	The report on the draft Insurance Code, No 502-01-75, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2015, adopted on the first vote on 7 October 2015. The insurance code. The insurance code. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the Code. ..................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Part One. ? Chapter 1?? Subject matter. Aims. Basic principles. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u5	Statements on the name of the Code, Part One "General," and Chapter One? I won't. Anblok we vote the reported ones: the name of the Code, of the Generals and "Present." Aims. Basic principles. They voted 121 MPs: 114, against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u6	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1: Foreground and scope Art. 1. (1) This code shall lay down: 1. the business of insurance and reinsurance; 2. the activities of insurance and reinsurance intermediary; 3. the conditions for the initiation, execution and termination of the activities under point 3. 1 and 2; 4. rules on the distribution of insurance products and on the settlement of insurance claims; 5. the insurance contract; 6. compulsory insurance; 7. the recovery, liquidation and bankruptcy of an insurance or reinsurance undertaking; 8. Insurance supervision. (2) The provisions of this Code shall not apply to the activities of supplementary social security, unless otherwise provided for by law. (3) The provisions of this Code, with the exception of Part Four, shall not apply to the export credit insurance activity carried out by the Bulgarian Export Insurance Agency where it is carried out at the expense of the State or guaranteed by it or where the insured is the State. (4) The provisions of this Code shall not apply to travel assistance activities which fulfil both of the following conditions: 1. the aid is proved by a legal person or sole trader with its registered office in the Republic of Bulgaria, which is not an insurance company; 2. the aid shall be found in the event of an accident or technical failure of a vehicle where the accident or technical failure occurred in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; 3. the aid is proved by carrying out the following activities: (a) repair of the technical failure in a place for which the person referred to in paragraph 1 is responsible. 1, uses mainly its own personnel and equipment; (b) transport of the vehicle to the nearest or most appropriate place where repair can be carried out and, where possible, transport by the same vehicle to the driver and passengers to the nearest place where they can continue their journey by another vehicle; (c) Transport of the vehicle, if possible, together with the driver and passengers to their place of residence or to the starting point or destination of the journey in the Republic of Bulgaria. (5) In the cases under para. 4 t. The condition that the accident or technical failure must have occurred in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria shall not apply where the driver of the vehicle is a member of an organisation of persons under para. 4 t. 1 and the removal of the technical failure or transport of the vehicle shall be carried out by a similar organisation in the other country on the basis of a mutual agreement if the removal of the technical failure or the transport of the vehicle is carried out upon presentation of a membership card and without payment of an additional premium. (6) The provisions of this Code shall not apply to a reinsurance activity carried out or fully guaranteed by the State as a last resort reinsurance for reasons of substantial public interest, including where that activity is necessary due to a market situation in which it is not possible to obtain an adequate commercial cover. This Decision shall enter into force on the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2. Article 3 "Entrepreneurship'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 3. Article 4 "Reinsurership'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 4. Article 5 "S' and through "sales'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 5. Article 6 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6. Article 7 "Instruction supervision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 7. Article 8 "Language." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u7	Statements under art. 1 in the version of the Commission and from Articles 2 to 8 by importer supported by the Commission, including the names of the members concerned? I won't. We're voting Anblok. They voted 111 MPs: 105, none, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u8	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 9. Application of the rules of international contracts and practice of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority Art. 9. (1) Where by an international treaty ratified, promulgated and entered into force for the Republic of Bulgaria, respectively for the European Union, different rules on the activities under art. 1, para. 1 shall apply those rules. (2) The Commission shall adopt decisions, guidelines or practices relating to the implementation of international contracts under para. 1 where necessary for the purposes of good supervisory practice or for the application of recommendations by the competent institutions of the European Union. (3) The Commission and the Vice-President may apply: 1. the acts of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority, hereinafter referred to as the "European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority', established by Regulation (EU) No 716/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 establishing the European Supervisory Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority), amending Decision No), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No are to be published in the Official Journal of the European Union'. 2. the protocols and other documents adopted within the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Supervision Committee. (4) Where the European Authority has adopted a direction or recommendation within the meaning of art. 16 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010, the Commission may adopt decisions, guidelines or practices relating to the implementation of the guidance or recommendation where necessary for good supervisory practice. Article 10 "Advert'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 10. Article 11 "General conditions, tariffs and other documents used in the relationship with users'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u9	That's it. Colleagues, speeches under art. 9, 10 and 11? I won't. We vote enblock the three members. Vote 117 MPs: 112, none, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u10	"Chapters 2 and 2 which can carry out the activities under this Code and the basic requirements for them.' The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two. Section I - Insurance and re-instructions. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I. Article 12 "Instructions and re-instructions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in A European cooperative company. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 13: It's a company. European cooperative company Art. 13. (1) An insurance company of a European company, respectively a reinsurance company, shall be established, operated, converted and terminated under Council Regulation (EC) No 2157/2001 of 8 October 2001 on the Statute of the European Company (SE) and this Code. The provisions for public limited liability companies under this Code shall apply to an insurance company. (2) An insurance company shall be established, operated, converted and terminated under Council Regulation (EC) No 1435/2003 of 22 July 2003 on the Statute of the European Cooperative Company (SCE) and that Code. The provisions for mutual cooperative societies under this code shall apply to the insurance company of a European cooperative company. Art. 14 "Capacitive insurance company. Capitative re-instruction. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14. Section II "Law of Access of Insurance and Reinsurers to the Single Market". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. Article 15 "Authority of access to the insurance and reinsurance undertakings and reinsurance undertakings'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15. Article 16 supposes to limit access to the single market. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u11	Colleagues, statements under Chapter 2.. Name, Section I...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I won't. We're voting Anblok. They voted 102 MPs: 100, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u12	"Department III" "Major requirements for insurers and re-instructions". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III. Article 17 "Supports and re-suppliers' general requirements. Proposal by MPs Nikiforov, Mihov and Tsochev, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 17: Total requirements for insurers and re-insurers Art. 17. (1) A reinsurance undertaking, respectively a reinsurance holding company, shall be set up, operated, converted and terminated under the Commercial Law, insofar as that code does not provide otherwise. (2) An insurance cooperative shall be set up, operated, converted and terminated under the Law on Cooperatives, insofar as this Code does not provide otherwise. (3) The central management of a local insurance company, respectively of a local reinsurance company, is mandatory at its registered management address in the Republic of Bulgaria. The insurance company may open more than one branch under the Commercial Law in one locality, including the locality at its headquarters. (4) The insurance holding company shall be entitled to carry out insurance activities only under the insurance classes specified in the licence, except in the case of cover of additional risks under the conditions of art. 30. (5) The mutual insurance cooperative shall be entitled to carry out insurance activities only under the insurance classes specified in the licence, except in the case of cover of additional risks under the conditions of art. 30. The subject of activity of the mutual insurance cooperative may cover one or more insurance classes under Section I of Annex 1 with or without insurance. (6) The statutes of the mutual insurance cooperative shall contain the data provided for in the Co-operatives Act and the following information: 1. classes of insurance; 2. the funds of the mutual insurance cooperative, the type, the method of depositing and the amount of contributions, the volume of liability of the members for the obligations of the mutual insurance cooperative. Article 18 "Company'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 18. Article 19 "Standing capital and shares'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 19. Article 20 "Customs and member co-operators'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u13	Colleagues, speeches under Section III, and Articles 17 to 20 including, together with their names? I won't. We're voting Anblok. Vote 112 MPs: for 108, no objection, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u14	Under art. There is a proposal from the MPs Nikiforov, Mihov and Tsochev in art. 21. 21, para. 1 sentence first, the words... with a period of validity of not less than three years................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u15	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Nikiforov, Mihov and Tsochev, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 109 MPs: 22, against 37, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 21 by its name by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 91, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u16	Other participants in the insurance market. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version for the name of Section IV: This is the total capital requirement before risk mitigation, after the adjustment for the loss absorbing capacity of technical provisions, after the adjustment for the loss absorbing capacity of technical provisions due to the For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: Article 22 "Shema with a special purpose purpose purpose for alternative transfer of own funds risk'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 22: The amount to be reported in this column shall be the difference between the total amount of technical provisions calculated as a whole and the total amount of technical provisions calculated as a whole and the total amount of technical provisions without transitional deduction to technical provisions Art. 22. (1) A special purpose vehicle for the alternative transfer of insurance risk is a legal person or a non-personalised undertaking other than an insurance or reinsurance undertaking which, on the basis of a contract, assumes risks from an insurance or reinsurance undertaking and which fully finances its risk exposure by issuing a debt or other financing mechanism, provided that the rights of creditors, respectively, to the participants in the financing mechanism, are subject to the reinsurance obligations of the scheme. (2) The establishment of a special purpose vehicle for the alternative transfer of insurance risk to the Republic of Bulgaria shall be permitted after obtaining a licence from the Commission under the conditions and under Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/35 of 10 October 2014 supplementing Directive 2009/138/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the taking-up and pursuit of the insurance and reinsurance business (Solvency II) (OB, L 12/1 of 17 January 2015.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2015/35.'. (3) The conditions for the exercise of the activity through a special purpose vehicle for the alternative transfer of insurance risk, the current supervision thereof, the measures to remedy detected infringements, the conditions and arrangements for the withdrawal of the licence granted shall be laid down by Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/462 of 19 March 2015 laying down implementing technical standards with regard to the procedures for the approval by the supervisory authorities for the establishment of special purpose schemes for the alternative transfer of insurance risk and for the procedures for the cooperation and exchange of information between supervisory authorities in relation to such special purpose schemes and for the identification of formats and templates for the information to be reported by such special purpose schemes in accordance with Directive 2009/138/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OB, L 76/23 of 20 March 2015).). In exceptional cases, the rules for reinsurance companies under this code shall apply. Article 23 "Securities intermediaries'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 23. "Department V......................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section V. Article 24 supplies of the activities of insurers and re-instructions. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 24. Article 25 "Entrepreneurship and active reinsurance'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 25. Article 26 "Forbidden to carry out other activities'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 26. Article 27 "Constructions of the activities of insurance intermediaries'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u17	Statements under Section IV and V? I won't. Anblok, we vote on both sections, together with their names and the names of their members. 100 MPs voted: 96, none, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u18	This is the total capital requirement before risk mitigation, after risk mitigation, of the amounts recoverable from reinsurance The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Part Two. "Day the first time, start and end of business." The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Title One. "Chapter 3' is the issue and withdrawal of licenses by local insurers and re-claimers. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three. "Department I............................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. Article 28 "Licensure of insurance or reinsurance business'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 28. Article 29 "Licenses'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 29: "Licenzi" Art. 29. (1) The insurance licence shall be issued for an insurance business under: 1. one or more insurance classes under Section I of Annex 1 (life insurance); 2. one or more insurance classes under Section II of Annex 1 (General Insurance). (2) The license under para. 1, t. 2 may also be issued for groups of insurance classes listed in point (B) of Section II of Annex No 1. (3) The reinsurance licence shall be issued for a reinsurance activity according to: 1. life insurance, or 2. non-life insurance, or 3. life insurance and non-life insurance (reservation of all insurance classes). (4) The scope of an insurance licence may be extended by an additional insurance class licence or by groups of insurance classes listed in point (B) of Section II of Annex No 1. Reinsurer's license issued for part of the activities under para. 2, may be extended with an additional license for a new activity. (5) An insurance agent may carry out the insurance referred to in art. 3, para. 1, t. 7 a travel aid activity only if it has received an insurance licence under point 7. 18, Section II, point (A) of Annex No 1, except in the case of additional risk. (6) The licence shall be written and shall specify in full: 1. for an insurance company, the type of activity and the insurance classes according to Annex No 1 under which it is entitled to carry out insurance; 2. for re-instructions under para. 3 in which he is entitled to carry out a reinsurance. (7) License under para. 1-3 (license), as well as additional license under para. 4 (a supplementary licence) shall be issued by the committee on a proposal from the Vice-President. (8) The Commission shall refuse to grant a licence if the applicant does not meet the requirements of this Code. (9) A licence or an additional insurance class licence shall be issued for the whole class and may be issued only for part of the risks of Annex 1 which relate to the class concerned: 1. where the applicant has requested to cover only part of the risks of Annex 1 relating to the class of insurance, or 2. at the discretion of the Commission, where it is established from the documents submitted for authorisation that all risks are not covered. (10) The reinsurance licence may be issued for one or both activities under para. 3, p. 1 and 2 according to the request lodged. Article 30 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 30. Article 31. supposed documents for the issue of a licence. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 31. Article 32 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 32. Article 33........................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 33. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 34: "Signature and refusal to issue a licence Art. 34. (1) On a proposal from the Vice-President, the Commission shall assess whether the requirements for issuing the requested licence are met and shall rule within 4 months of receipt of the request at the latest. (2) If the documents submitted are irregular or additional information is necessary, the Vice-President and/or the Commission shall notify the applicant of the irregularities and/or of the additional information requested and shall set a sufficient period for their removal which shall not be shorter than one month and longer than two months. The term under para. 1 shall cease until the specified time limit for the removal of irregularities and/or for the provision of additional information has expired. (3) When issuing an extension licence, the scope of the licence of the insurance insurer with a new insurance class or group of insurance classes, respectively, to a re-insurer with a new activity, the term under para. 1 cannot be longer than two months, but under para. 2 - shorter than 7 days. The deadline for the decision of the committee shall cease until the time limit set for the removal of irregularities and/or for the provision of additional information has expired. (4) If the notification under para. 2 shall not be accepted at the correspondence address indicated by the applicant, the time limit set by the applicant shall run from placing the notification of a specific location in the Commission's building for that purpose. The notification message shall also be published on the Commission's website on the Internet. Such circumstances shall be certified by a protocol drawn up by officials appointed by order of the President of the Commission. (5) The Commission shall inform the applicant in writing of the decision taken within 7 days of its adoption. (6) The Commission shall inform the European Authority of any decision to grant an insurance licence to the reinsurance undertaking, respectively. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 35: "Acceptances to be refused" Art. 35. (1) The Commission shall refuse to grant an insurance or reinsurance licence where: 1. the capital of the applicant does not meet the requirements of this Code; 2. any member of the management and control body of the applicant or persons authorised to manage and represent it shall not comply with the requirements of that Code or if, by its activities or by its influence on decision-making, it may harm the security of the applicant or its operations; 3. persons who hold directly, together with or through related or acting in agreement with other persons 10 per cent or more than 10 per cent of the votes of the General Assembly or the capital of the applicant or may control it: (a) do not comply with the requirements of this Code; (b) by their activities or by their qualifications or by their influence on decision-making may harm the applicant's activities; (c) cannot be identified to an actual owner (actual beneficiary); (d) the amount of the property owned by them and/or their activity on their scale and financial results do not correspond to the shareholder participation claimed in the applicant and create doubt as to the reliability and suitability of those persons, if necessary, to provide capital support to the applicant. 4. the funds by which the persons who have recorded one and over one hundred of the capital do not meet the requirements of art. 19th para. 3; 5. the applicant has submitted incorrect data or false documents; 6. the applicant is associated with a natural or legal person, and this connectivity creates obstacles to the effective exercise of the supervisory functions of the Commission or of the Vice-President; 7. there are obstacles to the effective exercise of the supervisory functions of the Commission or of the Vice-President arising from or in connection with the application of a third-country regulatory or administrative act governing the activities of one or more persons to whom the applicant is a related person; 8. no activity programme has been submitted or the programme submitted does not comply with the requirements of art. 33 or does not sufficiently ensure the interests of the users of insurance services, or where the activity which the applicant intends to carry out does not ensure its necessary reliability and financial stability; 9. no other requirements of this Code and its implementing acts have been met. (2) In the cases under para. 1, t. 1, 2, 4, 5, 8 and 9 The Commission shall refuse authorisation only if the applicant has not removed the irregularities or has not submitted the additional information within the specified time limit. (3) The Commission's refusal to grant a licence shall be reasoned in writing. Where a decision has not been given within the time limit laid down in art. 34, para. 1, there is a silent refusal. (4) A new application for a licence may be submitted no earlier than 6 months after the entry into force of the refusal. (5) The Commission shall refuse to grant a license for a new insurance class or to extend the subject of the activity of a re-insurer with a new activity on the grounds of para. 1, t. 1, 3 - 5, 8 and 9, respectively, applying para. Two and three. There is a silent refusal if the Commission does not rule within the time limit laid down in Article 3. 34, para. 3. In case of refusal, para. 4. "Integrating in the Commercial Register" The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 36.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u19	Are there any statements on Part Two, Title I, Chapter Three, Section I, together with their names and Articles 28 to 36 inclusive? I won't. We are voting on these provisions anbloc. They voted 109 MPs: 106, none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u20	Section II - Change in the right of access of an insurer to the single market. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. Article 37 "Statute of the insurance company'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 37: "Securities of the insurance company" Art. 37. The existence or absence of the right of access to the single market (instruction status) shall be reflected in the insurer's licence in the register. art. 30, para. 1, t. 9 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act. "Voluntary change in the insurance or reinsurance undertaking's status The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 38: "Voluntary change in the insurance company's status Art. 38. (1) An insured without the right of access to the single market shall have the right to be authorised to carry out his activities under the common rules for access to the single market for which he applies to the committee. (2) Where the request is submitted after a licence has been granted, the insurance provider shall provide evidence of compliance with the requirements set out in Part Two, Title Three and with the other requirements under this Code and the applicable acts of the European Union to which the activities of the insurers with the right of access to the single market are to be met. (3) The necessary evidence under para. 2 shall be determined by a decision of the Commission and shall include at least: 1. references and data for compliance with the requirements for the valuation of assets and liabilities and for the calculation of technical provisions pursuant to Part Two, Title Three and Regulation (EU) 2015/35; 2. references and data on the minimum capital requirement and the Solvency Capital Requirement in accordance with the requirements of Part Two, Title Three and Regulation (EU) 2015/35; 3. references and evidence of the existence of eligible own funds at least equal to the Solvency Capital Requirement and the Minimum Capital Requirement in accordance with the requirements of Part Two, Title Three and Regulation (EU) 2015/35. (4) The Commission, on a proposal from the Vice-President, shall assess whether the requirements of Part Two, Title Three and Regulation (EU) 2015/35 have been met and shall rule by a decision within three months of the date of receipt of all the evidence and the change in the status of the insurer shall be reflected in the licence issued. (5) If the documents submitted are irregular or additional information is necessary, the Commission shall send the applicant a message of the findings of irregularities and/or of the additional information requested and shall set a sufficient period for their removal which shall not be shorter than one month and longer than two months. The term under para. 4 shall cease until the specified time limit for the removal of irregularities and/or for the provision of additional information has expired. (6) An insurance undertaking operating under the common rules for access to the single market may carry out its activities under the rules for insurers without the right of access to the single market after the submission of a request in the committee if the following circumstances are at the same time: 1. none of the thresholds referred to in Article 1. 16 shall not be exceeded during the last three consecutive years prior to the date of submission of the request; 2. none of the thresholds under art. 16 is not expected to be exceeded over the next 5 years after the date of submission of the request; 3. at the date of submission of the request, the insured person shall not operate under the conditions of the right of establishment or the freedom to provide services in another Member State. 4. the insured person is not part of a group to which Part Two, Title Three shall be applied on the basis of art. 39, para. 4. (7) For proof of the circumstances under para. 6, p. 2 The insurance provider shall present an activity programme under art. 33. (8) On a proposal from the Vice-President, the Commission shall decide on the change in the status of the insurer within one month of the submission of the request and may provide for a transitional period in which additional requirements for the reporting of the insurer apply. The change in the insurance status shall be reflected in the licence issued. (9) The Commission shall refuse to change the status of the insurer when the circumstances under para. 6, p. 1, 3 and 4 if in the programme for the activity of the insurer under art. 33, it can be concluded that one of the thresholds under art. 16 is likely to be exceeded over the next 5 years, or if reserve coverage assets are not in line with the requirements of Title Four. (10) The request under para. 1 or 6 shall be dealt with after payment of a fee for the examination of documents. A mandatory change in the status of the insurance company The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 39: A mandatory change in the status of the insurance company Art. 39. (1) When one of the thresholds referred to in art. 16 is exceeded in a period of three consecutive years, the general rules for access to the single market begin to apply to the relevant insurer without the right of access to the single market as of the fourth year. The Vice-President shall notify the relevant insurer in writing no later than the end of the second consecutive year in which any of the thresholds under art. 16 has been overrun. (2) The insurance company under para. 1 is required within three months of notification to submit a plan for compliance with the requirements to be met by insurance companies entitled to access to the single market. The Vice-President shall carry out ongoing oversight of compliance with the plan and implement the relevant enforcement measures in the event of non-compliance. (3) The status of the insurer under para. 1 shall be changed by official decision of the Commission after the end of the third consecutive year in which one of the thresholds referred to in Article 1 has been exceeded. 16, such as the change in the status of the insurer shall be reflected in the licence and shall be entered in the register of art. 30, para. 1, t. 9 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act. (4) All insurers that are part of one insurance group shall apply Part Two, Title Three in cases where one of them starts applying Part Two, Title Three, and when an insurance company with its head office outside the Republic of Bulgaria joins the group. For these cases apply respectively para. 1 and 2. (5) Where an insurer without the right of access to the single market applies for an additional licence for one or more of the insurance classes under art. 16, p. 4 or for groups of classes of insurance, compliance with the requirements to be met by insurance companies entitled to access to the single market shall be checked in the production of an additional licence.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u21	Colleagues, are there any statements under Section II, the name of the section and Articles 37 to 39 inclusive? I won't. We're voting Anblok. They voted 104 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u22	"Section III" "Receiving of licences". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III. Art. 40 "Download of license." There is a proposal from the MP Tanev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The proposal is: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 40, para. 1 and 2 are amended as follows: The Commission shall withdraw the licence of an insurance or reinsurance undertaking if: 1. the person has submitted incorrect data or false documents which have served as grounds for issuing the licence; 2. the total value of the liabilities of the person, including the technical provisions calculated under that code and its implementing acts, exceeds the total value of its assets; 3. the person has not submitted a short-term plan under art. 215, para. 2 or if the submitted plan is obviously inadequate, or if, despite the presentation of the short-term plan, the person has not restored compliance with: (a) the minimum capital requirement within three months of the finding of non-compliance where the person is an insurance company with the right of access to the single market, respectively the reinsurance undertaking or the (b) the guarantee capital within three months of the finding of non-compliance where the person is an insurer without the right of access to the single market; 4. the insured person violates the voluntaryness of the insurance; 5. the number of members of the mutual insurance cooperative falls below the established minimum and up to 6 months the composition shall not be completed or if they are violated art. 20, para. Art. 2 or art. 21, para. 1; 6. the grounds for termination of the public limited liability company art. 252, para. 1, t. 4 of the Commercial Law; 7. the person has ceased to meet the conditions for granting a licence; 8. the person performs other activity than the activity for which he has obtained a licence; 9. there is a request of the person and the requirements of this code are met. (2) The Commission may withdraw the licence of an insurance or reinsurance undertaking if: 1. the person does not start operating within 12 months of the issue of the licence; 2. the person has ceased to operate for more than 6 months; 3. the person or his shareholder, or a member of a management or control body, or any other person authorised to manage or represent him, has failed to comply with an effective and enforced administrative measure under that code; 4. the insurance, the reinsurance and/or persons under art. 80 have committed and/or committed serious or systematic violations of this Code or its implementing acts; 5. the plan under art. 215, para. 1 has not been submitted within the time limit, has not been approved or, despite its presentation, compliance with the following conditions has not been restored within the prescribed time limits: (a) the capital requirement for solvency where the person is an insurer with the right of access to the single market, respectively the re-insurer, or the (b) the limit of solvency where the person is an insurer without the right to access the single market; 6. the person improperly refuses to pay or partially pays due and liquid cash liabilities. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 40: A licence shall be withdrawn from the territory of the Art. 40. (1) The Commission shall withdraw the licence of an insurance or reinsurance undertaking if: 1. the person has submitted incorrect data or false documents which have served as grounds for issuing the licence. 2. the person has not submitted a short-term plan under art. 215, para. 2 or if the submitted plan is obviously inadequate, or if, despite the presentation of the short-term plan, the person has not restored compliance with: (a) the minimum capital requirement within three months of the finding of non-compliance where the person is an insurance company with the right of access to the single market, a reinsurance undertaking, or (b) the guarantee capital within three months of the finding of non-compliance where the person is an insurer without the right of access to the single market. 3. the insured person violates the voluntaryness of the insurance. 4. there is a request of the person and the requirements of this Code are met. (2) The Commission may withdraw the licence of an insurance or reinsurance undertaking if: 1. the person does not start operating within 12 months of the issue of the licence. 2. the person has ceased to operate for more than 6 months. 3. the number of members of the mutual insurance cooperative falls below the established minimum and up to 6 months the composition shall not be completed or if they are violated art. 20, para. Art. 2 or art. 21, para. 1. 4. the person has ceased to meet the conditions for granting a licence; 5. the person performs other activity than the activity for which he has obtained a licence. 6. the person or his shareholder, or a member of a management or control body, or any other person authorised to manage or represent him, has failed to implement an enforced administrative measure under that code. 7. there is the reason for termination of the shareholder company under art. 252, para. 1, t. 4 of the Commercial Law. 8. the insurance, the reinsurance and/or persons under art. 80 have committed and/or committed gross or systematic violations of this Code or its implementing acts. 9. the plan under art. 215, para. 1 has not been submitted within the time limit, has not been approved or, despite its presentation, compliance with the following conditions has not been restored within the prescribed time limits: (a) the Solvency Capital Requirement, where the person is an insurer with the right of access to the single market, respectively the re-insurer, or (b) the limit of solvency where the person is an insurer without the right to access the single market. 10. the person improperly refuses payment or partially pays due and liquid cash liabilities. (3) Where the grounds for revocation of a licence relate to part of the activity of the person, the Commission may withdraw the licence for one or more separate classes of insurance, respectively for a separate part of the reinsurance activity. (4) The Commission shall decide by reasoned decision and inform the person in writing of the decision taken within 7 days. (5) With the decision to revoke the licence, except for the cases under para. 3, the Commission shall appoint one or more Quaestors under Article 3. 598 until appointment of liquidator or syndicater. (6) In the cases under para. 1, t. 5 the Commission's decision is to approve a voluntary refusal of a licence.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u23	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Section III by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 88, against none, abstention 1. The name of Section III has been accepted. We have a proposal from the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 89 MPs: 9 against 19, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for art. 40, which is edited by the Commission and found its place in its report. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. Article 40 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u24	The amount to be reported in this column shall be the amount to be reported in column 060 of the CR SA template. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 41. The power of the Commission to withdraw the licence. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 42 and offers in para. 1 the words "s" and "s" shall be dropped. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 43: Notify the competent authorities of the other Member States upon withdrawal of an insurance licence or of a re-insurer Art. 43. (1) The Commission shall immediately inform the relevant competent authorities of the other Member States of the withdrawal of an insurance or reinsurance licence and shall request the relevant competent authorities to take action under their legislation to: 1. prevent the conclusion of new contracts, offer new terms and modification of the terms of contracts concluded by the insurer, respectively by the insurer. 2. protection of the interests of the persons concerned, including by prohibiting the free disposal of the insurance company's assets, respectively of the insurer. (2) Where the Commission has been informed of the revocation of an insurance or reinsurance licence from another Member State, it shall take appropriate measures under para. 1 in relation to the activities and assets of the insurance company, respectively of the reinsurance agent in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u25	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 41, which is supported by the Commission; the Commission's proposal to drop out in art. 42, para. 1 the words............................................................................................................ 43, according to the Commission report. We are voting in favour of Articles 41, 42 and 43, according to the Commission report. Please vote. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. Articles 41 to 43, including, on the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u26	In the case of an insurance or reinsurance undertaking, the amount to be reported shall be the difference between the total amount of the reinsurance contracts and the amounts recoverable from reinsurance contracts and special purpose vehicles relating to the reinsurance contracts and special purpose vehicles relating to Acting in the Republic of Bulgaria by an insurance or reinsurance company from another Member State. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. "Department I "Employment of an activity in another Member State by a resident insurance company. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 44. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 45. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 46 and offers in para. 3 and 4 words................................................................................................ For the purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply: In paragraph 1, the following paragraph is added: 5 words. To be replaced by............................................................................................... 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, "Provide information." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 47.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u27	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter Four by importer, the name of Section I by importer, as well as Articles 44 to 47 including, according to the Commission report, as well as the Commission's proposal in art. 46, para. 3 and para. 4 The words................................................................................. For the purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply: In paragraph 1, the following paragraph is added: 5 words. To be replaced by............................................................................................... 1.................................................................................. Please vote on the Commission's proposals on its report. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The name of Chapter 4, Section I and Articles 44 to 47, including, on the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u28	"Section II.. Acting on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria by an insurance company from another Member The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 48. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 49. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 50. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 51.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u29	Statements? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of Section II, as well as Articles 48 to 51 including, by importer, which are supported by the Commission. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The name of Section II by importer supported by the Commission and Articles 48 to 51 by importer supported by the Commission in its report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u30	Section III.. Acting in another Member State by a local re-insurer. Acting on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria by a re-insurer from another Member State. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 52. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 53.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u31	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Section III by importer supported by the Commission and the texts supported by the Commission of the importer for Articles 52 and 53. Please vote. 79 MPs vote: 79, no opposition and no abstentions. The name of Section III and Articles 52 and 53 of the Commission report shall be unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u32	"Chapter 5" - Acting in a third country by a resident insurance or reinsurance company. Acting on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria by an insurance or reinsurance company from a third country. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five. "Department I "Employment of an activity in a third country by a resident insurance company. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 54. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 55. "Section II" "Exercising an activity in the Republic of Bulgaria by a third-country insurance company." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 56. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 57: A licence issued by a Member State shall be issued by Art. 57. (1) For the issue of an insurance licence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria through a branch, the third-country insurer shall submit a request to which it applies: 1. a certified copy of the Insurance Registration Act and a document from the Registration Authority with up-to-date data on the seat and address of the management, the subject of activity, the amount of subscribed capital, the management system and the persons managing it and/or representing it. 2. a certified copy of the authorisation to carry out the insurance activity issued by the competent authority of the insurance company's registered office, including a description of the insurance classes for which it has been authorised. 3. a certified copy of the act of the competent management body of the insurance company for the opening of a branch in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and for the selection of the manager of the branch. 4. a certificate issued by the competent authority carrying out insurance supervision in the country of the insurance company's registered office that a resident insurance company can open and operate an insurance business in that country in accordance with the general order established for foreign insurers. 5. a document issued by a bank which carries out banking activity in the Republic of Bulgaria, certifying the deposit under art. 56, para. 2, p. 3, and documents certifying the amount of assets under art. 56, para. 2, p. 2. 6. details of the branch manager. 7. the activity program. 8. evidence that the branch will comply with the requirements of the management system under Chapter 7, including the documents under art. 77, para. 1, t. 1, 3 and 4. 9. a written statement by the insurance manager that I will draw up and submit an annual financial statement on the activity to be carried out in the country through the branch and that it will keep them at the branch office. 10. written declaration from the insurance manager that the branch will cover the solvency capital requirement and the minimum capital requirement according to the order established for local insurers. 11. the annual financial statements of the insurer for the last three years, respectively for the life of the insurer, if it exists from a shorter period. 12. data on persons holding directly or through related persons 10 or more than 10 per cent of the votes in the general meeting or from the capital of the insurer, or other participation that enables them to control it. 13. where an insurance licence covering an activity under point (a) is requested. 10.1, Section II, point (a) of Annex 1: (a) the name and address of the representative for the settlement of claims on that insurance in each of the Member States; (b) a bank guarantee document in accordance with the Statute of the National Bureau of Bulgarian Motor Insurance; (c) a reinsurance contract in accordance with criteria laid down by a decision of the Commission. 14. the technical bases for the calculation of premium rates and insurance reserves. (2) The Commission shall decide within 4 months of receipt of the request. Where irregularities are detected or additional information is required, art. 34, para. 2, 4 and 5, and the period for removing irregularities or providing additional information shall not be less than 15 days. (3) The request under para. 1 shall be dealt with after payment of a fee for the examination of documents. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 58. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 59. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 60. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 61. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 62. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 63. All texts are with the respective names and versions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u33	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the name of Chapter V, Section I, the name, Articles 54, 55 and 56, the name of Section II, art. Article 56, editing of art. 57 and 58 to 63 Art. by importer. They are all supported by the Commission and are in place in its report. Please vote. Vote 68 MPs: 66, none, abstention 2. The name of Chapter V, Sections I and II and Articles 54 to 63, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u34	"Section III' "Exercising an activity in a third country by a local re-insurer. Acting in the Republic of Bulgaria by a third-country reinsurance company. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 64. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 65. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 66: Art. 66. (1) A third-country reinsurance undertaking may provide services in the Republic of Bulgaria from its registered office or branch provided that it has been authorised to carry out reinsurance in the country of its registered office and is subject to supervision of its overall activity by the competent authority in that country. (2) In respect of a third-country reinsurance undertaking carrying out the reinsurance activity in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, no provisions shall apply which result in a more favourable treatment than that granted to the reinsurance undertaking having its registered office in a Member State. (3) The Commission may, by regulation, provide for insurance or reinsurance undertakings from third countries that are subject to reinsurance in the Republic of Bulgaria, an obligation to provide a pledge or other guarantee for the coverage of the transfer premium reserve or the provision for upcoming payments. (4) Paragraph 3 shall not apply to insurance and reinsurance undertakings from third countries with a supervisory regime recognised as equivalent by the European Commission under the terms and conditions laid down in Directive 2009/138/EC and in the implementing acts. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and services of the Directorate-General for The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of the name of Section IV: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 67.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u35	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Section III and Section IV, art. 64 and 65 by importer, the edited text of the importer by the Commission for art. 66 in her report, as well as Art. 67 by importer supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 75 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 4. The names of Sections III and IV and art. 64 to 67, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u36	"Dal Second.. Requirements for the management and operation of insurers and The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Title Two. ? Chapter 6? Qualified holdings?? The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the importer. 6. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 68: ? Acquires Art. 68. (1) Any natural or legal person or such person acting in agreement that has decided or obtained, directly or indirectly, a qualified participation in an insurance or reinsurance joint-stock company, or directly or indirectly, to increase such qualified participation, as a result of which the share of voting rights or capital held would reach or exceed 20, 30 or 50 per cent, or the insurance or reinsurance joint-stock company would become their subsidiary, shall be required in writing to notify the Vice-President of the decision prior to the acquisition, indicating the amount of the intended participation. Where, as a result of objectively occurring circumstances outside the will of the persons, their participation becomes qualified or reaches or exceeds the thresholds referred to in the first sentence, the notification shall be made after the acquisition, respectively the increase in participation, within 15 working days of knowledge. (2) Any natural or legal person who has decided to order, directly or indirectly, with his qualified participation in an insurance or reinsurance company shall be required in writing to notify the Vice-President of the decision prior to the order, indicating the amount of his participation after the intended disposal. The person shall also inform the Vice-President where he has decided to reduce his qualified participation as a result of which the share of voting rights or capital held would fall below 20, 30 or 50 per cent or the insurance or reinsurance company would cease to be his subsidiary. (3) A qualifying participation shall be a direct or indirect participation in an insurance or reinsurance undertaking representing 10 or more per cent of the capital or voting rights or making it possible to exert a significant influence on the management of that reinsurance undertaking, respectively. (4) Every person under para. 1 must undoubtedly be established to an actual owner (actual beneficiary). (5) Actual owner (actual beneficiary) within the meaning of para. 4 means one or more natural persons who ultimately own or control the applicant for the acquisition of qualified participation. Actual owners (actual beneficiaries) shall cover at least: 1. in the case of corporate entities: (a) the natural person or persons who ultimately own or control a legal person through the direct or indirect possession or control of a sufficient percentage of the shares or voting rights in that legal person, including by holding shares of a carrier other than a company whose shares are quoted on a regulated market subject to the conditions of disclosure in accordance with European Union law or equivalent international standards; 25 per cent plus one share shall be considered sufficient to meet this criterion; (b) the natural person or persons otherwise exercising control over the management of a legal person. 2. in the case of legal entities such as foundations or legal arrangements such as trust companies which manage and distribute funds: (a) where future real owners (actual beneficiaries) have already been designated... the natural person or persons who are actual owners (actual beneficiaries) of 25 per cent or more of the property of the legal arrangement or legal person; (b) where the natural persons benefiting from the legal arrangement or the legal person are to be assigned the category of persons in whose primary interest the legal arrangement or legal person is established or managed; (c) the natural person or persons exercising control over more than 25 per cent of the property of the legal arrangement or legal person. (6) In determining the amount of qualified participation, the voting rights under art. 146, para. 1 of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. In determining the amount of qualified participation, account shall not be taken of the voting rights or shares held by investment firms or credit institutions as a result of the provision of services under art. 5, para. 2, p. 6 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act, provided that those rights are not exercised or used to influence the management of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking and provided that those rights are transferred within one year of the acquisition. (7) The Commission, on a proposal from the Vice-President, shall carry out an assessment of the envisaged acquisition, respectively an increase in qualified participation, with a view to ensuring the sound and prudent management of the insurer, respectively the re-insurer in which the acquisition will take place. In carrying out the assessment, the Commission shall take into account the possible impact of the applicant on the insurer, respectively, on the insurer, assessing whether the applicant is adequate and financially sound in applying the following criteria: 1. reputation of the applicant; 2. the reputation and professional experience of any person who will direct the activities of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking as a result of the proposed acquisition; 3. the financial stability of the applicant in relation to the activity carried out or intended to be carried out by the insurer, respectively, by the insurer for which the acquisition is proposed; it shall be assumed that the applicant is financially sound if, on the basis of the documents submitted and their analysis, it can reasonably be assumed that within not less than three years from the date of acquisition, there is no risk of experiencing financial difficulties and there will be such a financial situation as would ensure the planned development of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking, including, where necessary, giving it financial support; 4. whether the insurer, respectively, will be able to comply with or continue to comply with the prudential requirements of the law and, in particular, whether the group part of which it will take place after the acquisition has a structure that allows effective supervision and exchange of information between the competent supervisory authorities and the definition and distribution of responsibilities between them; 5. whether justified assumptions can be made that, in relation to the proposed acquisition, money laundering is carried out, or is attempted within the meaning of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering or Terrorism Financing within the meaning of the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism, or that the implementation of the proposed acquisition would increase the risk of doing so. (8) The Commission may, on a proposal from the Vice-President, prohibit the proposed acquisition only if there are grounds for doing so in accordance with the criteria set out in para. 7 or if the information provided by the applicant is incomplete. (9) The Commission and the Vice-President shall not impose ex ante conditions in relation to the amount of participation to be acquired, nor shall they examine the acquisition in view of the economic needs of the market. (10) The Commission and the Vice-President may not require information that is not relevant for carrying out the assessment of compliance with prudential requirements. In relation to specific acquisition or increase of qualified participation, the Vice-President may require additional information and evidence where they are necessary to carry out the assessment of compliance with prudential requirements. (11) In the event that two or more notifications of acquisition or increase of qualifying participation in the same insurer, respectively the Vice-President shall assess each of the acquisitions on a non-discriminatory basis. (12) Prudential requirements are the requirements set out in Chapters 7 to 10 of Part Two, Title Three, fourth and seventh, as well as in the Additional Supervision of Financial conglomerates Act, where this law applies or will apply to the insurer, respectively the re-insurer, which provides for the acquisition of the capital contribution. (13) The Commission shall adopt decisions, guidelines or practice for the implementation of guidelines or recommendations for the assessment of acquisition or increase of qualified participation adopted by the European Authority. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 69. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 70: Acquisition of qualifying participation by financial undertakings Art. 70. (1) The Vice-President shall exchange information with the relevant supervisory authorities when carrying out the acquisition assessment if the applicant is one of the following: 1. a credit institution, an insurance or reinsurance undertaking, an investment firm or a management company within the meaning of Article 1 (2) of Directive 2009/65/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009 on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (SICS) (OB, L 302/32 of 17 November 2009)) approved in another Member State or in a sector other than that in which the acquisition is proposed; 2. a parent undertaking of a credit institution, an insurance or reinsurance undertaking, an investment firm or a management UCITS company approved in another Member State or in a sector other than that in which the acquisition is offered; 3. a natural or legal person controlling a credit institution, an insurance or reinsurance undertaking, an investment firm or a management UCITS company approved in another Member State or in a sector other than that in which the acquisition is offered. (2) The opinions and objections of the supervisory authorities with which coordination has been conducted in accordance with para. 1 shall be referred to in the decision of the Vice-President under Article 1. 71, para. 4 or 5. (3) The Vice-President shall provide without delay any information which is essential or relevant to the assessment where the acquisition of qualified participation is claimed by a person under para. 1 which is an insurance or reinsurance undertaking with its registered office in the Republic of Bulgaria, or a parent undertaking, or a natural or legal person controlling an insurance or reinsurance undertaking with its registered office in the Republic of Bulgaria. In the process of cooperation referred to in the first sentence, the Vice-President shall submit to the relevant supervisory authorities at their request or on his own initiative any information which is necessary or essential for their verification. (4) The information referred to in art. 69, para. 2 and 3 shall not be required by the applicant if the supervisory authority under para. 1 is from a Member State and has granted a certificate that the applicant complies with the requirements of Directive 2009/138/EC or Directive 2007/44/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 September 2007 amending Council Directive 92/49/EEC and Directives 2002/83/EC, 2004/39/EC, 2005/68/EC and 2006/48/EC as regards procedural rules and assessment criteria for the preliminary assessment of acquisitions and the increase of participations in the financial sector (OJ L 247/1 of 21 September 2007).). (5) The information referred to in art. 69, para. 2 and 3 shall not be required by an applicant who is a supervised entity of the Commission and for which the documents referred to in art. 69, para. 1-4 in another proceedings before the committee. (6) The information referred to in art. 69, para. 2 and 3 shall not be required by an applicant who has been assessed in other proceedings during the previous two years by the Vice-President or by the Commission and for which the documents have been submitted. art. 69, para. 2 and 3. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 71: supposed notification procedure Art. 71. (1) Within a period of not more than two working days from the date of receipt of the application with all required documents under art. 69, the committee, on a proposal from the Vice-President, shall confirm in writing to the applicant the receipt of the application and inform him of the date on which the time limit for ruling under para. 4. Where all the documents referred to in art. are not annexed to the application. 69, the time limit for the confirmation referred to in the sentence first starts from the date of submission of all required documents. A sentence shall first apply to any subsequent submission of documents by the applicant. (2) The Commission, on a proposal from the Vice-President, may, within 50 working days of the date of confirmation under para. 1 to request additional information necessary to rule on the application. The request for additional information shall be written and shall state the necessary information. The term for ruling under para. 4 shall cease to run from the date of the request for additional information until the date of its receipt, but for no more than 20 working days. Where the applicant has a registered office or is subject to supervision outside the European Union or is a natural person, or is a legal person not an insurance, credit institution or investment firm, the maximum period for which the time limit for ruling is suspended shall be 30 days from the date of the written request for further information. Follow-up requests for additional information shall not suspend the time limit for delivery. The two-day period under para. shall apply on each receipt of additional information. 1. (3) Within 60 working days of the date of confirmation under para. 1, the committee, on a proposal from the Vice-President, shall issue a ban on the acquisition of the requested participation if there are serious grounds for doing so in accordance with the criteria laid down in art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 7 or if the information provided by the applicant is incomplete. The decision of the Committee on the issue of a prohibition, together with its reasons, shall be forwarded to the applicant before the expiry of the period of judgment and no later than two days from the date of issue of the decision. The decision shall be made public on the Commission's website on the Internet or in any other appropriate way. (4) Within the term under para. 3 The committee, on a proposal from the Vice-President, may approve the implementation of the change of shareholder participation and set a maximum period within which the acquisition under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 after whose expiry approval is voided. The specified maximum period may be extended at the request of the applicant if there are reasonable reasons therefor. (5) If the applicant is not notified within the period under para. 3 for a ban on the acquisition of the requested participation, he is entitled to acquire the participation he has claimed. (6) Person who acquires a qualified participation or crosses another threshold under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 sentence first, without submitting a notification under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 before the expiry of the term under para. 3 or in breach of a committee ban, shall not exercise voting rights on shares so acquired. Where the person holds other shares acquired before the acquisition of a qualified participation or the passage of another threshold by sentence first, his voting rights under those shares shall be retained. The voting rights of the person in the new shares acquired in the first sentence shall not be taken into account when determining the existence of a quorum for the holding of a general meeting of the insurer, respectively the re-insurer. (7) The relevant central depositary authorised by the Commission, which conducts the book of the shareholders of the insurance company, respectively, shall inform the Commission of any acquisition of participation under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 for reduction under Art. 1 respectively. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 2, within three days of their knowledge. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 72. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 73. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 74.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u37	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Title Two, the name of Chapter Six, as proposed by the importer and supported by the Commission, the edited text of the importer for art. 68, the text of the importer for art. 69, the texts of art. 69, edited by the Commission 70 and 71 by importer, as well as Articles 72 to 74, including by importer, supported by the Commission, together with all the names of the members. Vote 89 MPs: 88, against none, abstention 1. The name of Title Two, Chapter Six and Articles 68 to 74 including, together with their names on the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u38	..the management The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 7. Section I - Management, structure and organization of the activity of the insurance and reinsurance undertaking. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 75. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 76. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 77. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 78. "Department II" "Requirements for qualification and reliability". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 79. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 80 and offers in para. 3 words................................................................................. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 81. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 82. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 83. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 84. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 85.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u39	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter 7, the name of Section I and Section II of the importer supported by the Commission, Articles 75 to 89 by importer, which shall be supported by the Commission, the Commission's proposal in art. 80, para. 3 words................................................................................. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation, in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3], laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers. The names by importer shall be supported by the Commission to all these members. Please vote. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The name of Chapter 7, the name of Section I and Section II and Articles 75 to 85 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u40	"Department III." Risk management. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 86. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 87. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 88. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 89. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 90 and offers in para. 4 the words "or the transitional measures under § 12 and 13 of the Transitional and Final Provisions" shall be dropped as they are reflected in their systematic place in § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 91.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u41	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Section III, the texts of Articles 86 to 89, including by importer, which are supported by the Commission, the Commission's proposal in art. 90 by importer, in para. 4 the words "or the transitional measures under § 12 and 13 of the Transitional and Final Provisions" shall be dropped as they are reflected in their systematic place in § 14, as well as the text of the importer for art. 91, which is supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The name of Section III and Articles 86 to 91 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u42	Section IV - Internal control. Internal audit. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section IV. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 92. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 93. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 94. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 95. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 96. "Department V " Actuarial function." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section V. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 97. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 98. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 99. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 100. "Department VI" "External auditors". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VI. Under art. 101 has a proposal from the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Daniela Saveklieva, Georgieva and Popova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 101: Art. 101. (1) The annual financial statements of the insurance, reinsurance, insurance holding company and mixed financial holding company with its registered office in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as annual references, reports and applications under art. 126, para. 1 shall be verified and validated by a specialised audit firm which is a registered auditor under the Independent Financial Audit Act. (2) Persons having material interests in an insurance or reinsurance undertaking other than those of an insured, insured, or are employees or representatives of the insurer, respectively the insurer, may not participate in their audit. (3) It shall not be an auditor if it or the registered auditors therein which shall carry out the certification: 1. have not complied with the requirements of this Code and its implementing regulations, the Independent Financial Audit Act or the directly applicable law of the European Union and this has been established by an entry into force; or 2. have been withdrawn as an auditor or revoked the right to carry out independent financial audit of financial statements by a state or public organisation in the Republic of Bulgaria or in another country, or 3. have certified a false report to an insurance or reinsurance undertaking without having been reflected in the opinion expressed by the audit firm. (4) Within 7 days of the election of an auditor, the insurer shall, respectively, submit to the Commission a written declaration from the representing the specialised audit firm that the requirements of para. 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 102. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 103. "Section VII" - Insurance claims settlement activity. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VII. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 104. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 105. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 106. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 107. Under art. 108 has a proposal from the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MPs Delyan Dobrev and Martin Dimitrov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 108: The insurance company's closing. Time limits for making a decision and performance. Art. 108. (1) The insurance officer shall be obliged to rule on the insurance claim referred to in Section I of Annex 1 or under paragraph 1. 1-3, 8-10 and 13-18, Section II (A) of Annex No 1 which is not an insurance of major risks, within 15 working days of the submission of all evidence under art. 106, such as: 1. determine and pay the amount of the compensation or the insurance amount, or 2. motivated refusal of payment. (2) Where all evidence under art. 106 on insurance under para. 1, with the exception of insurance, liability of the motorists, the insuranceer is obliged to rule on one of the ways under para. 1 no later than 6 months from the date of the claim. (3) In the case of insurance, the liability of the motorists shall not be provided where all evidence under art. 106, the period referred to in Art. 106 shall apply. 497 para. 1. (4) The reply of the insurer under art. 497 para. 2, p. 2 shall be regarded as refusing payment within the meaning of para. 1, t. Art. 2 and Art. 2 381, para. 1. (5) In the activity of settling claims on insurance of major risks, the term under para. 1 cannot be longer than 6 months, but by para. It's been 2 years. In the case of insurance under point (c) of paragraph 1, the following shall be added: 5, 6, 11 and 12, Section II, point 1 and 2 shall not apply. (6) In the event of a complaint by an insurance user, the insurer shall provide in writing a factual and legal justification of the amount of the compensation. (7) Where the user of the insurance service has consented to the damage to be removed from the external contractor, the insured person shall be obliged within the term of para. 1 or 5 in writing to assign the damage recovery to an external contractor. In the cases referred to in the first sentence, the recovery of the damage shall be carried out within a reasonable period of time for the implementation, unless a specific period has been agreed between the insurer and the user. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 109.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u43	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Sections IV, V, VI and VII, Articles 91 to 100 by importer, which shall be supported by the Commission, the edited text by the Commission on the text of the importer for art. 101, Articles 102 to 107 including by importer, the text edited by the Commission of the importer for art. 108, according to her report, as well as Art. 109 by importer supported by the Commission. The names of all members shall be supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 89 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 3. The names of Sections IV to VII including, as well as Articles 92 to 109, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u44	"Section VIII" "Receiving of an activity by an insurance or reinsurance undertaking to third parties." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VIII. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 110. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 111 and offers in para. 6 words................................................................................. To be replaced by................................................................................................... Five o'clock. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 112. ? Chapter 8???????????????????????????????????????????? The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Eight. "Department I.................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 113. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 114. "Department II." General financial requirements. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 115. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 116. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 117: Recalculation of financial indicators for supervisory purposes Art. 117. Where the insurance or reinsurance undertaking has calculated the amount of technical provisions, own funds requirements, the value of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses or other indicators reflected in a financial statement, another report or reference submitted to the Commission, in breach of a law or other regulatory act, the Commission, on a proposal from the Vice-President, may, for the purposes of the insurance supervision carried out, re-evaluate or re-calculate each of those indicators and apply a compulsory administrative measure under art. 588. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 118: The amount to be reported in this column Art. 118. (1) The insurer, respectively the re-insurer, shall establish general and technical reserves. (2) The general reserves shall consist of: 1. Fund "Reserved" under art. 246 of the Commercial Law, respectively under art. 34 of the Law on Cooperatives; 2. other funds, if provided for in the statutes. (3) The technical reserves shall be the liability of the insurer, the re-insurer and shall be reported in the liability of its balance sheet. (4) The types of technical provisions to be maintained by the insurer shall be determined according to art. 119. (5) The increase in technical provisions shall be included in the underlying costs and the amount The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 119. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 120. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 121. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 122. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 123. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 124.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u45	Statements? I won't. I vote on the name of Section VIII; the names of Chapter Eight, Section I and II of Chapter Eight; art. 110 by importer supported by the Commission; the Commission's proposal in art. 111 by importer, in para. 6 words................................................................................. To be replaced by................................................................................................... Articles 112, 113, 114, 115, 116 including "by importer' supported by the Commission; the edited texts of the importer for Articles 117 and 118 in accordance with the Commission report; and the texts of the importer from art. Art. 119 to art. 124 including those supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 80, none, abstention 3. The name of Section VIII of Chapter 7, the names of Chapter Eight, Sections I and II of that Chapter, as well as Articles 110 to 124, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u46	Section III - Annual financial statements and periodic reports. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III. Under art. 125 has a proposal from the MPs Saveklieva, Georgieva and Popova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 125: The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. Art. 125. (1) Insurance and reinsurance undertakings, insurance holding companies and mixed financial holding companies with their registered office in the Republic of Bulgaria shall draw up annual financial statements and periodic financial statements and references. (2) Insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall draw up the annual financial statements and periodic financial statements and reports with a structure (form) and content according to a Commission regulation introducing the requirements of Council Directive 91/674/EEC of 19 December 1991 on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of insurance undertakings and other reporting requirements. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 126. "Section IV "Instruction of information to supervision. Public disclosure. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section IV. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 127. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 128. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 129: "Accounting of solvency and financial position Art. 129. (1) The insurer shall, respectively, the re-insurer, annually within the time limits laid down in Regulation (EU) 2015/35 disclose to the public a statement of its solvency and financial condition, respecting art. 127, para. 4 and 5. The solvency and financial situation report shall be part of the annual financial statements of the insurance and reinsurance undertaking. (2) The solvency and financial situation report shall contain information fully or in the form of references to equivalent information, both by nature and scope, publicly disclosed under other regulatory requirements, as follows: 1. a description of the activity and the results of the activity of the person; 2. a description of the management system and an assessment of its adequacy to the risk profile of the insurer, respectively the re-insurer; 3. a description, separately for each risk category, of the risk exposure, concentration, reduction and sensitivity; 4. a description of the assets, technical provisions and other liabilities separately, of the foundations and methods used in their assessment, together with an explanation of any significant non-compliance with the foundations used and valuation methods in the financial statements; 5. a description of the management of capital including at least: (a) structure and amount of own funds as well as their quality; (b) amount of Solvency Capital Requirement and Minimum Capital Requirement; (c) information enabling the correct understanding of the main differences between assumptions underlying the standard formula and those underlying each internal model used by the person to calculate its own solvency capital requirement; (d) amount of each, even subsequently removed, non-compliance with the minimum capital requirement or minimum guarantee capital and any significant non-compliance with the solvency or solvency limit within the reporting period, together with an explanation of its origin and effects, and the measures taken to address it. (3) Where a matching adjustment is applied under art. 156, the description under para. 2, p. 4 includes a description of the matching adjustment and of the portfolio of liabilities and assigned assets to which the matching adjustment applies and a quantitative measurement of the impact of the reduction of the matching adjustment to zero on the financial situation of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking. The description under para. 2, p. 4 shall also include information on whether the person applies a volatility adjustment under art. 158, as well as a quantitative measurement of the impact of the reduction in volatility adjustment to zero on the financial situation of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking. (4) The description under para. 2, p. 5 point (a) shall include an analysis of any significant change compared to the previous reporting period and an explanation of any significant discrepancy in relation to the value of those elements in the financial statements, as well as a brief description of the ability to transfer capital. (5) Disclosure of the capital requirement for solvency under para. 2, p. 5 point (b) shall present separately the amount calculated under Chapter XIII, Section 2 and Section 3 and the added capital imposed in accordance with art. 585 or the impact of the specific parameters required by the insurance or reinsurance undertaking to use under art. 174, along with brief information on the motives of the committee. (6) Where applicable, the disclosure of the Solvency Capital Requirement shall be accompanied by the clarification that its final amount shall be assessed by the competent supervisory authority. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 130. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 131. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 132. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 133. "Department V "Conservation in the European Union." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section V. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 134: "Conservation activity in the European Union Art. 134. (1) Co-insurance activities in the European Union shall be insurance related to one or more of the risks referred to in points (a) and (b) of paragraph 1. The following conditions shall be fulfilled in Section II (A) of Annex No 1: 1. the risk is a big risk; 2. the risk is covered by one contract against a single premium of two or more insurers for the same period and each of them is responsible for its part as a co-insurgency and one of them is a leading insurer; 3. the risk is located in a Member State; 4. for the purpose of risk coverage, the lead insurer shall be considered to cover the entire risk; 5. at least one of the co-insurers participates in the contract through its central management or branch established in a Member State other than the Member State of the lead insurer; 6. The leading insurer shall fully assume the leading role in the co-insurance business and, in particular, shall determine the terms and conditions for insurance and charges. (2) Articles 46, 50 and 51 shall apply to the lead insurer. (3) For co-insurance activities for which the conditions under para. 1 shall not apply the provisions of this Section. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 135: "Participation in co-insurance in the European Union" Art. 135. In an insurance activity in the European Union, an insurance officer may participate in compliance with the requirements of this Section. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 136. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 137. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 138. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 139. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 140.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u47	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the names proposed by the importer for Sections III, IV and V, supported by the Commission, the edited text by the Commission in support of the text of the importer for art. 125, Articles 126 to 128, including by importer, which are supported by the Commission, the edited text by the Commission for art. 129 in support of the text of the importer, Articles 130 to 133 by importer supported by the Commission, the edited texts of the importer by the Commission for Articles 134 and 135 by the Commission report and Articles 136 to 140 by importer supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 74 MPs: for 73, against none, abstention 1. The names of Sections III, IV and V on the Commission report and Articles 125 to 140, including the same report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u48	"Chapter 9 - Separate management of non-life and non-life activities'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 141. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 142. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 143. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 144. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 145: ? Specific requirements in case of shortage of Eligible basic own funds Art. 145. (1) If the amount of items of eligible basic own funds in respect of one of the insurance activities is insufficient to cover the minimum financial obligations under art. 142, para. 2, the committee, on a proposal from the Vice-President, shall apply to this activity the measures under art. 215, regardless of the results of the other activity. (2) Regardless of art. 142, para. 3, the committee, on a proposal from the Vice-President, may allow for the transfer of explicit elements of eligible basic own funds from one insurance business to the other. "Chapter 10" "Discovering a conflict of interest." It's a secret. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter 10a. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 146: "Discovering and avoiding conflict of interest" Art. 146. (1) Each member of a management or control body, any other person in a management position, and any person authorised to manage and/or represent an insurer, respectively, shall inform the insurance manager in writing when concluding with the insurer, respectively the reinsurance contract that goes beyond the normal business of the insurer, respectively the insurer or substantially deviates from the normal market conditions. (2) The provision of para. 1 shall also apply where a party to a transaction with the insurer, respectively, is: 1. a member of the family per person under para. 1; 2. a company in which the person under para. 1 or a member of his family holds directly or through related persons qualified participation under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1; 3. a company in which the person under para. 1 or a member of his family is a partner, a member of a management or control body, an official with management functions or a person authorised to manage or represent the company. (3) Every person by para. 1 informs the insurance manager in writing at least every 6 months, respectively the insurer of the companies in which the person or members of his family hold, directly or through related persons, a qualified participation under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 in which are partners or shareholders, members of a management or control body, officials with management functions or persons authorised to manage or represent the company. (4) Person under para. 1 shall not be entitled to participate in the negotiations, discussions and decision-making of a transaction with the insurer, respectively the re-insurer to which he is a party or a party under para. 2. (5) The insured, respectively the re-insurer, the persons under para. 1 as well as other employees of the insurer, respectively, of the insurer, are obliged, in the performance of their functions, to prefer the interests of the insurer, respectively of the insurer, and of its users of insurance services, respectively cedants, to their own interests. (6) The insurance company shall be obliged to build an effective internal organisation of its activities in such a way as not to allow conflict of interest under para. 7 adversely affect the interests of its users of insurance services. (7) The insurer shall take all necessary measures to identify the conflict of interest arising in the course of the insurance distribution activity between: 1. the insurance company, the members of its bodies, its other employees, other persons entering into insurance contracts on its behalf, as well as the persons relating to it directly or indirectly by means of control, on the one hand, and the users of insurance services on the other; 2. one user of insurance services and another. (8) When the organization under para. 6 is not able to ensure with sufficient certainty that the risk of damage to the interest of the insurance service user will be avoided, the insurer is obliged to clearly disclose to the user the nature and sources of conflict of interest prior to the start of business with him. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 147. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of art. 148: "Delegation" Art. 148. The Commission may, by regulation, lay down more detailed requirements for the fulfilment of the obligations under art. 146, para. 6-8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 149. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 150 and offers in para. 2 sentence 2 second to be dropped as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 151. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of art. 151: ? Ban on health status information Art. 151. The insurance provider may not provide the insurance provider, where he is a person other than the insured person, with information on the health status of the insured persons.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u49	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter 9, Chapter 10 by importer, Articles 141 to 144 by importer, which shall be supported by the Commission, the version of the Commission for art. 145 by importer, edit of art. Art. 146, Art. Art. 148. 151, as well as the proposal in art. 150, para. The second sentence of the import text shall be deleted as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 151. Please vote. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The name of Chapters 9 and 10 and Articles 141 to 151, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u50	"Day 3.. Financial condition requirements for insurance companies entitled to access to the single market and for reinsurance undertakings.......................................................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Title Three. "Chapter 11" "Assessment of assets and liabilities." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 152. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 153. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 154. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 155. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 156 and offers in para. 6 Finally, the words "or transitional measures for an interest rate under § 12 of the Transitional and Final Provisions' shall be dropped as they are reflected in their systematic place in § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 157. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 158. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 159. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 160. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 161. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 162. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 163.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u51	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the names proposed by the importer for Title III, Chapter 11 and the texts of the importer for Articles 152 to 155 including, supported by the Commission, the Commission proposal in the text which is for art. 156, para. 6 Finally, the words "or transitional measures for an interest rate of § 12 of the Transitional and Final Provisions' shall be removed as they are reflected in their systematic position in § 12, as well as the texts of the importer as Articles 157 to 163 including those supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The names of Title Three, Chapter 11 and Articles 152 to 163, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u52	"Chapters 12 and.... own funds.......................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter twelfth. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 164. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 165. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 166. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 167: The amount to be reported shall be the amount to be reported in this column. Art. 167. (1) The amount of the additional own funds to be taken into account in determining the own funds shall be subject to prior approval by the Commission on a proposal from the Vice-President. (2) The value determined for each component of the additional own funds shall reflect the ability of the loss-covering element and shall be based on reasonable and realistic assumptions. Where an additional own funds element has a fixed nominal value, the value of this item shall be equal to its nominal value where it adequately reflects its loss coverage capability. (3) The Commission shall, on a proposal from the Vice-President, approve: 1. monetary value of each item of additional own funds, or 2. a method for determining the value of each item of additional own funds, in which case the supervisory approval of the value determined according to the relevant method shall be granted for a certain period. (4) For each element of additional own funds, the committee shall, on a proposal from the Vice-President, give its approval on the basis of an assessment of the following: 1. the status of the relevant counterparties with regard to their ability and readiness to pay; 2. the collection of funds, taking into account the legal form of the element and also the conditions that would prevent the successful introduction or requirement of the element; 3. any information concerning the outcome of past requests for the submission of such additional own funds which the insurer, respectively, made to the extent to which this information can be reliably used to assess the expected outcome of future claims. (5) The elements of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking's own funds shall be classified in three rows according to an act of the European Commission and the ordinance under art. 168. Where a specific item of own funds cannot be classified according to a list in the Act of the European Commission under art. 168, it shall be classified in the respective line of business by the insurance or reinsurance undertaking in compliance with the requirements of the regulations of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking art. 168. The classification referred to in the second sentence shall be subject to the approval of the committee on a proposal from the Vice-President. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 168. This is the total capital requirement before risk mitigation, after diversification effecting the risk mitigation effect of the risk mitigation effect of the risk mitigation effect arising The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter XIII. "Section I" - General Rules. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 169. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 170. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 171. Section II - Calculation of the Solvency Capital Requirement based on the standard formula. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 172. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 173: "Replace part of the parameters of the standard formula with parameters specific to the insurer, respectively the re-insurer Art. 173. (1) After prior approval by the Commission, on a proposal from the Vice-President, the insurer, respectively the insurer, may replace within the structure of the standard formula part of its parameters with parameters specific to it for the calculation of the life insurance risk modules, the non-life insurance risk or the health insurance guarantee risk. (2) These parameters shall be calibrated on the basis of internal data of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking or data directly related to its activity using standardised methods. (3) In the procedure for granting approval, the Commission, on a proposal from the Vice-President, shall verify the completeness, accuracy and suitability of the data used. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 174: significances from assumptions underlying the calculation of the standard formula Art. 174. Where it is inappropriate to calculate the Solvency Capital Requirement in accordance with the standard formula, as the risk profile of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking concerned deviates significantly from the assumptions underlying the calculation of the standard formula, the Commission, on a proposal from the Vice-President, shall, subject to art. 173 may, by a reasoned decision, oblige it to replace part of the parameters used in the calculation of the standard formula with parameters specific to it for the calculation of life insurance risk modules, non-life insurance and health insurance and reinsurance risk. These specific parameters shall be calculated to ensure compliance with art. 170, para. 2 and 3. "Department III'.................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 175. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 176. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 177. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 178. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 179. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 180. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 181. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 182. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 183. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 184. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 185. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 186: "Political change of full or partial internal model Art. 186. (1) As part of the initial process of approval of the internal model, the Commission, on a proposal from the Vice-President, shall approve a policy for changing the model of the insurer, respectively the re-insurer. The insurance provider, respectively, may change its internal model only in compliance with this policy. (2) The policy under para. 1 determines the significant and minor changes in the internal model. (3) The significant changes of the internal model, as well as the changes in the policy under para. 1 shall be subject to prior approval by the committee on a proposal from the Vice-President. (4) Minor changes in the internal model shall not be subject to prior approval when developed in accordance with the policy under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 187. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 188: Return to standard formula Art. 188. After obtaining approval for the use of a full or partial internal model, the insurer, respectively, cannot return to the calculation of the Solvency Capital Requirement according to the standard formula, except where justified and after approval by the Commission, on a proposal from the Vice-President. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 189: Non-compliance with the internal model Art. 189. (1) If, after obtaining approval for the use of an internal model, the insurer, respectively, ceases to comply with the requirements of art. 176-181, it shall immediately submit to the Commission a plan to restore compliance with the model within a reasonable period of time or demonstrate that the consequences of non-compliance are non-essential. (2) In case the insurer, respectively, fails to implement the plan under para. 1, the committee, on a proposal from the Vice-President, may order him to return to the standard formula for the calculation of the Solvency Capital Requirement. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 190: significances from assumptions underlying the calculation of the standard formula Art. 190. Where it is not appropriate to calculate the solvency capital requirement in accordance with the standard formula, as the risk profile of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking concerned deviates significantly from the assumptions underlying the calculation of the standard formula, the Commission, on a proposal from the Vice-President, may, by a reasoned decision, order the person concerned to use an internal model for the calculation of the solvency capital requirement or individual risk modules thereof.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u53	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the names proposed by the importer of Title Three, Chapters eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth, Sections I, II and III of Chapter XIII; those names shall be supported by the Commission; Articles 152 to 166 including by importer, supported by the Commission, the version of art. 167 on the Commission report, Articles 168 to 172 including by importer, supported by the Commission, the version of Articles 173 and 174 on the Commission report, Articles 171 to 185 on importer, supported by the Commission, the version of art. 186 on the Commission report, Art. 187 by importer, supported by the Commission, and Articles 188 to 190 by the Commission. Please vote on everything I've told you from Chapter 12 onwards. Vote 68 MPs: 65, none, abstention 3. The name of Chapters twelfth and thirteenth, Sections I, II and III of Chapter XIII, and Articles 164 to 190, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u54	"Chapter 14" "Minimum Capital Requirement." The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 191. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 192. "Chapter 15" "Supporting of information to a supervisory authority". The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 193. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 194. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 195 and offers in para. 1, t. 7 words.............................................................................. 77, para. 1, t. 3 letter "s' to be replaced by "s'. 127, para. 7.............................................................................. "Chapter sixteen" "Instructions". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter 16th. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 196. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 197.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u55	Statements? I won't. We vote on the names proposed by the importer of Chapters fourteen, fifteen and sixteen; the texts of the importer as members from 191 to 194 including, supported by the Commission, the Commission proposal in art. 195 by importer in para. 1, t. 7 words ................................................................................................. 77, para. 1, t. 3 letter "s' to be replaced by "s'. 127, para. 7s and Articles 196 and 197 by importer supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 69 MPs: 68, against none, abstention 1. The names of Chapters 14, 15 and 16 and Articles 191 to 197, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u56	"Day 4th " Requirements for the financial situation for insurers without the right of access to the single market. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Title Four. The amount to be reported in this column shall be the amount to be reported in column 060 of the CR SA template. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter seventeenth. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 198. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 199: General rules for the coverage of technical provisions Art. 199. (1) The insured without the right of access to the single market shall at any time cover the gross amount of technical provisions with corresponding assets under the terms of this Chapter. (2) The Commission may, on a proposal from the Vice-President, prohibit the free disposal of assets of an insurer under para. 1 which does not fulfil the obligation under para. 1 or under art. 200, para. 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 200. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 201. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 202. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 203. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 204. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 205. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 206. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 207.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u57	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Title Four, Chapter seventeenth, in accordance with the proposal of the importer, which shall be supported by the Commission, art. 198 by importer supported by the Commission, the edited text of the importer for art. 199, according to the Commission report, as well as Articles 200 to 207, including by importer, supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 71 MPs: for 69, no objection, abstention 2. The name of Title 4 and Chapter 17 and Articles 198 to 207, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u58	? Chapter 18?????????????? Solvency limit. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter eighteen. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 208. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 209. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 210. "Chapter Nineteen': Additional requirements for the solvency of insurers and re-instructions. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version of the name of Chapter Nineteen: The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 211: Information on transactions within the insurance group Art. 211. (1) Controlle the transactions of an insurer without access to the single market, which is part of a group, with the following persons: 1. related company; 2. a company involved in it; 3. related to a company involved in it; 4. a natural person who holds a part of an insurance group or participates in a related company; 5. a natural person who holds a participation in a company that participates in the insurance group; 6. a natural person who holds a participation in a company related to a company participating in the insurance group. (2) The transactions under para. 1 shall include: 1. loans and other forms of lending; 2. guarantees and off-balance sheet operations; 3. transactions with own funds that serve to cover the solvency limit; 4. investments; 5. reinsurance operations; 6. cost allocation; 7. Others. (3) The procedures for risk management, internal control and accounting procedures of the obligor part of a group shall provide conditions for monitoring, evaluation and control of transactions under para. 1. The Vice-President may prescribe an amendment and an addition to those procedures where they do not sufficiently guarantee the solvency of the insurance officer. (4) The insurance provider, which is part of a group, shall provide together with the quarterly reports a report on the significant transactions under para. 1. (5) If, on the basis of the review of the procedures under para. 3 or the information provided under para. 4 The committee on a proposal from the Vice-President considers that solvency is at risk, it shall apply the following measures: 1. order the preparation of a plan under art. 215, and/or, 2. implement a forced administrative measure under art. 588. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 212: This is the total capital requirement before risk mitigation, after deduction of the amounts recoverable from reinsurance contracts and special purpose vehicles relating to risks arising from Art. 212. (1) The adjusted solvency of an insurer which is a participating undertaking in at least one insurer shall be calculated by means of methods determined by a Commission regulation. (2) When calculating the adjusted solvency in accordance with para. 1 shall be included in the companies which are: 1. related to the participating insurer under para. 1; 2. participating in the participating insurer under para. 1, and 3. related to those participating in the participating insurer under para. 1 companies. (3) If the adjusted solvency calculated in accordance with para. 1 shall be negative, the Commission shall, on a proposal from the Vice-President, implement the measures referred to in Article 1. 211, para. 5 in relation to the participating insurance company under para. 1. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 213: Additional supervision of an insurance undertaking whose parent is an insurance holding company or mixed financial holding company Art. 213. (1) For insurers whose parent undertaking is an insurance holding company or mixed financial holding company, a method of supplementary supervision as determined by a Commission regulation shall apply. (2) When applying the method under para. 1 shall be taken into account the activities of all companies related to the insurance holding, respectively the mixed financial holding company. (3) If as a result of the applied method under para. 1 It is established that the solvency of the insurer is or may be jeopardised, the committee, on a proposal from the Vice-President, shall apply to him the measures under art. 211, para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u59	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karastoyanova. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the names of Chapters 18 and 19 on the proposal of the importer, which shall be supported by the Commission; Articles 208 to 210 by importer supported by the Commission; the version of the Commission for art. Article 211, 212 and Article 212 213 by importer, as reflected in the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 76 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 1. The name of Chapters 18 and 19 proposed by the Commission and Articles 208 to 213 of the Commission report have been adopted. Thirty-minute break. We'll continue at 2:02 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u60	We are continuing the plenary session.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u61	??????????????????????????????????????????? The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Title Five. "Chapter 20" "Search of the financial situation" and "Search of the financial situation." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Twenty. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 214. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 215: "Security recovery plan' and the short term Art. 215. (1) Within two months of the establishment of non-compliance with the solvency capital requirement, respectively at the solvency limit, the insurer, respectively, shall draw up and submit for approval by the Commission, on a proposal from the Vice-President, a realistic plan to achieve the solvency provided for within 6 months from the date of establishment of the non-compliance: 1. reimbursement of eligible own funds at level providing cover of the Solvency Capital Requirement at the solvency limit, respectively, and/or 2. limitation of the risk profile to ensure compliance with the Solvency Capital Requirement with the available eligible own funds. (2) Within one month of the establishment of a non-compliance with the minimum capital requirement, the insurance undertaking, respectively, shall draw up and submit for approval by the Commission, on a proposal from the Vice-President, a realistic short-term plan which provides for within three months of the date of establishment of the non-compliance: 1. reimbursement of eligible basic own funds at level providing cover of the minimum capital requirement of guarantee capital, respectively, and/or 2. limitation of the risk profile to ensure compliance with the minimum capital requirement with the available eligible basic own funds. (3) When the circumstances under para. 1 or 2 are established by the Vice-President, he shall immediately order the insurer or the re-insurgency to draw up the relevant plan and shall set a time limit for its preparation which shall not be longer than the periods laid down in para. 1 under para 1 respectively. 2. (4) In the plans under para. 1 and 2 shall also include data or evidence for: 1. estimated valuation of the advocacy, administrative and other management costs, including commissions of insurance or reinsurance intermediaries; 2. estimated estimate of income and expenses in respect of direct insurance, active and passive reinsurance; 3. forecast balance; 4. an estimate of the funds intended to cover the technical provisions, the solvency capital requirement, the solvency limit and the minimum capital requirement respectively, guarantee capital; 5. a comprehensive policy in the field of reinsurance; 6. measures to limit the risk profile, where provided, and how they affect own funds requirements; 7. other specific measures to comply with the requirements of the Code; 8. sources of funds for the implementation of the plan; 9. additional requirements laid down by an act of the European Commission with regard to insurers applying Title 3 and re-insurers. (5) The Commission, on a proposal from the Vice-President, shall rule within 30 days of the submission of the plan and shall refuse to approve it when the requirements of para. 1, 2 or 4 as well as where the proposed measures are not realistic or do not sufficiently guarantee the solvency of the insurer, the interests of the insured or the fulfilment of the obligations arising from reinsurance contracts or other provisions of the law have been infringed. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 216: "Extending time limits for the implementation of the solvency recovery plan Art. 216. (1) The Commission, on a proposal from the Vice-President, may extend the six-month period under art. 215, para. 1 by not more than three months if it considers that this is necessary for the purposes of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking's recovery, respectively, provided that the interests of the insured or the fulfilment of the obligations arising from reinsurance contracts are not jeopardised. (2) In the event of an extremely adverse situation established by the European Authority and, where appropriate,... after consulting the European Systemic Risk Board concerning insurers and re-insurers representing a significant share of the market or of the types of activities concerned, the Commission may extend the period under para. 1 with no more than 7 years, taking into account all relevant factors, including the average duration of technical provisions. (3) Insurance, respectively re-insurer, which shall benefit from an extension of the term under para. 2, submit to the committee every three months, a progress report. The report shall be submitted no later than 15 days after the end of the quarter to which it relates and shall contain the measures taken and progress made to recover the level of eligible own funds to meet the Solvency Capital Requirement or to reduce the risk profile to ensure compliance with the Solvency Capital Requirement. (4) The Commission shall cancel the extension of the period under para. 2 where the progress report shows that there is no significant progress between the date of the finding of non-compliance with the Solvency Capital Requirement and the date of submission of the Progress Report in achieving the recovery of the level of eligible own funds to cover the Solvency Capital Requirement or to reduce the risk profile to ensure compliance with the Solvency Capital Requirement. (5) The Commission may request the European Authority to establish an adverse situation under para. 2 when: 1. Insurance or reinsurance undertakings representing a significant share of the market or of the types of activities concerned shall not be able to overcome a failure to comply with the Solvency Capital Requirement within the time limit set out in paragraph 1. art. 215, para. 1, respectively, within the term under para. 1; 2. there is one or more of the following circumstances on the market: (a) unforeseen, acute and sharp collapse of financial markets; (b) long-term conditions of low interest rates; (c) significant adverse events; (d) another circumstance determined by an act of the European Commission. (6) After the establishment of an adverse situation under para. 2 The Commission shall assist the European Authority in giving an ongoing assessment of whether the prerequisites for establishing the adverse situation continue to exist and shall inform it of their withdrawal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 217: Non-compliance with own funds requirements Art. 217. The Commission, on a proposal from the Vice-President, may prohibit the free disposal of the insurer's assets, respectively the re-insurer, where non-compliance with: 1. the minimum capital requirement of the guarantee capital, respectively; 2. the solvency capital requirement at the solvency limit and the vice-president considered that there was a risk that the financial situation of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking would deteriorate further. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 218.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u62	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposed name by the importer for Title Five, as well as Chapter 20, supported by the Commission, art. 214 by importer supported by the Commission, edited by the Commission, which generally supports Articles 215, 216 and 217, and 218 by importer supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The names of Title 5 as well as Chapter 20 and Articles 214 to 218, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u63	????????????????????? Re-energisation. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Title Six. The amount to be reported shall be the amount to be reported in this column. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Twenty-First. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 219. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 220. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 221. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 222: "Execution of the transfer" Art. 222. (1) The transfer of an insurance portfolio shall have effect from the entry into force of the authorisation under art. 219, para. 1 and the assets to cover technical provisions are transferred simultaneously with the transfer of insurance contracts. (2) In the event that the insured has not benefited from his right under art. 221, para. 2, the transfer shall take effect on all persons who have rights or obligations under the same insurance contract. (3) After the transfer under para. 1 The transferring insurer shall be exempted from its obligations under the transferred insurance contracts. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 223. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 224. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 225. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 226. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 227. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 228.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u64	And the next chapter.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u65	"Chapter twenty-two" is the conversion of an insurance or reinsurance undertaking. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Twenty-Two. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 229. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 230 and offers in para. 1, t. 9 words.................................................................................. 3, p. 1 and 2 and 5 s to be replaced
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u66	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposed name by the importer for Title Six, as well as for Chapters twenty-first and twenty-two, Articles 219 to 221 by importer, supported by the Commission, the edited art. 222 of the Commission, which is partly supported by the same, as well as Articles 223 to 229, including by importer, supported by the Commission and the Commission proposal in art. 230 by importer................................................................................................ 1, t. 9 words.................................................................................. 3, p. 1 and 2 and 5 s to be replaced by......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1, t. 5? 9 and para. 3, p. One and two. Please vote. 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. The name of Title 6 and Chapters twenty-first and twenty-second, as well as Articles 219 of 230, including the Commission's report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u67	..and supervision of the insurance and reinsurance companies. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Title Seven. "Chapter twenty-third" General Rules. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Twenty-third. "Department I" is an object. Group of insurance and reinsurance companies. It's an object. The Commission shall The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that Section I with its name be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 231. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 232. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 233. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 234. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 235. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 236. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 237: "End parent enterprise at national level Art. 237. (1) The Commission, on a proposal from the Vice-President, may apply supervision of a group to a local insurance, reinsurance, insurance holding company or mixed financial holding company headed by a group within the meaning of art. 234, para. 1, t. 1 or 2 where the final parent undertaking has its registered office in another Member State, in consultation with the group supervisor and the final parent undertaking in the other Member State. The decision shall be reasoned with the group supervisor and the final participating undertaking in another Member State. Where the committee is a group supervisor and has received a decision within the meaning of a sentence second from another supervisory authority, it shall inform the other members of the supervisory college thereof. (2) Paragraph 1 shall not apply where the final parent undertaking at national level is a subsidiary of a parent undertaking from another Member State which has been authorised to apply Chapter Twenty-four, Section I, Subsection VI. (3) The Commission, on a proposal from the Vice-President, may restrict the supervision of a group at the level of a parent enterprise in the Republic of Bulgaria to one or more sections of Chapter Twenty-four. (4) When the committee, on a proposal from the Vice-President, decides to apply Chapter twenty-four, Section I at the level of the final parent undertaking at national level, it shall recognise as final and apply the method for calculating the solvency of a group chosen by the group supervisor to the parent undertaking from another Member State. (5) When the committee, on a proposal from the Vice-President, decides to apply Chapter twenty-four, Section I at the level of the final parent undertaking at national level, it shall recognise and apply the decision approving an internal model approved at the level of the final parent undertaking for the calculation of the group's solvency capital requirement and the solvency capital requirement of the insurance and reinsurance undertakings that are part of it. (6) When in the case of para. 5 the committee, on a proposal from the Vice-President, considers that the risk profile of the final parent enterprise at national level significantly deviates from the internal model approved at group level, and if that parent undertaking fails to comply with the commission's orders, it may: 1. impose the addition of capital to the solvency capital requirement of a group calculated with the internal model, or 2. in exceptional cases where the addition of capital under point 2. 1 would not be appropriate to order it to calculate the solvency capital requirement of a group according to the standard formula. (7) The decision of the Committee under para. 6 shall be reasoned with the group supervisor and the final participating undertaking in the other Member State. Where the Commission is a group supervisory authority and has received a decision within the meaning of a sentence, first of all, from another supervisory authority in respect of a group whose final participating undertaking is located in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Commission shall inform the other members of the supervisory college thereof. (8) Where the committee, on a proposal from the Vice-President, decides to apply Chapter twenty-four, Section I at the level of the final parent undertaking at national level, that undertaking may not apply Chapter twenty-four, Section I, Subsection VI to its subsidiary. (9) The supervision of a group headed by a final parent undertaking at national level shall be subject to Chapters twenty-four and twenty-five respectively, unless in para. 2-8 is provided for another. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 238.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u68	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Title VI by importer, the name of Chapter Twenty-Three by importer, the Commission proposal to reject the text of the importer of Section I, together with its name, Articles 231 to 238 by importer, which are supported by the Commission, as art. 237 is generally supported and edited by the Commission in the same report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u69	They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u70	"Chapter Twenty-Fourth Financial Condition." The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Twenty-four. "Section I - Solvency of a group'. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I. "Sub-section I" General provisions. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Subsection I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 239. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 240. "Sub-section II " Methods for the calculation of group solvency capital requirement and basic principles'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Subsection II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 241. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 242. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 243. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 244. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 245. "Sub-section III" "Application of the methods of calculation". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Subsection III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 246. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 247. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 248. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 249. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 250. "Sub-section IV.. Methods of The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Subsection IV. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 251. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 252. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 253: sampling from assumptions underlying an internal group model at the level of an individual insurance or reinsurance undertaking Art. 253. (1) Where the committee, on a proposal from the Vice-President, considers that the risk profile of a local insurance or reinsurance undertaking deviates significantly from the internal model approved at group level, art. 252, and if that person does not comply with the provisions of the Commission, it may: 1. impose the addition of capital to its own solvency capital requirement calculated with the internal model, or 2. in exceptional cases where the addition of capital under point 2. 1 is not appropriate to order to calculate its Solvency Capital Requirement according to the standard formula. (2) In the case of para. 1, t. 2 The committee, on a proposal from the Vice-President, may order the addition of capital according to the order of art. 585 para. 1, t. 1 or 3 and to the Solvency Capital Requirement of that person calculated by applying the standard formula. (3) The decision to implement measures under para. 1 or 2 shall be motivated and provided to the insurer, respectively to the insurer and to the other members of the supervisory college. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 254: "Adding capital per group Art. 254. (1) When the committee is a group supervisor, the Vice-President shall monitor on an ongoing basis whether the consolidated solvency capital requirement adequately reflects the risk profile of the group and in particular shall ensure that any of the prerequisites under art. 585 para. 1, especially in cases where: 1. Specific risk at group level is not covered enough by the standard formula or by the internal model used because it is difficult to quantify; or 2. the relevant supervisory authorities have ordered the addition of capital to the capital requirement for solvency of one or more related insurance or reinsurance undertakings. (2) When in the cases under para. 1 It is established that the risk profile of the group is not adequately reflected, the committee, on a proposal from the Vice-President, may order the addition of capital to the consolidated solvency capital requirement of the group subject to the art. 585 respectively. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 255: (alternative method) Art. 255. (1) According to the deduction and aggregation method, the local insurance company, which is a participating undertaking, shall calculate its solvency as a difference between: 1. the aggregate eligible own funds of the group under para. 2, and 2. the value of the related insurance and reinsurance undertakings in the local insurance or reinsurance undertaking which is a participating undertaking and the aggregated solvency capital requirement of the group ) (a.k.a. 3. (2) The eligible own funds of the group shall be the sum of: 1. the eligible own funds to cover the Solvency Capital Requirement of the local insurance or reinsurance undertaking which is a participating undertaking; 2. the proportional share of the local insurance or reinsurance undertaking participating in the eligible own funds to cover the own funds requirement for the solvency of the related insurance and reinsurance undertakings. (3) Aggregated own funds requirement for the solvency of the group shall be the sum of: 1. Capital requirement for solvency of the local insurance or reinsurance undertaking which is a participating undertaking; 2. the proportional share of the capital requirement for the solvency of the related insurance and reinsurance undertakings. (4) If the participation in related insurance or reinsurance undertakings is wholly or partly indirect, their value in the local insurance or reinsurance undertaking involved shall include the value of that indirect contribution taking into account the consistency of the respective interests and the elements of: 1. paragraph 2, t. 2 include the corresponding proportional shares of the own funds eligible to meet the Solvency Capital Requirement of the related insurers and re-insurers, respectively, 2. paragraph 3, t. 2 shall include the corresponding proportional shares of the Solvency Capital Requirement of the related insurers and re-insurers. (5) In the case of a request for authorisation for the calculation of the solvency capital requirement of the insurance and reinsurance undertakings within the group by means of an internal model submitted by an insurance or reinsurance undertaking which is a participating undertaking, together with its related insurers and/or reinsurance undertakings or jointly by the related insurers of a local insurance holding company or a local mixed financial holding company, art. 252 and 253 shall apply accordingly. (6) Where the committee is a group supervisor, the committee, on a proposal from the Vice-President, shall assess whether the aggregated solvency capital requirement adequately reflects the risk profile of the group and shall, in particular, assess the existence of specific risks existing at group level that are not covered sufficiently because it is difficult to quantify. (7) Where it finds that the risk profile of the group deviates significantly from the assumptions underlying the aggregated group solvency capital requirement, the committee, on a proposal from the Vice-President, may order the addition of capital to the aggregated group solvency capital requirement, subject to art. 585 respectively. This is the total capital requirement before risk mitigation, after the adjustment for the loss absorbing capacity of technical provisions and after the adjustment for expected losses due to the loss absorbing capacity of technical provisions, before the adjustment for expected losses due to the loss absorbing capacity of technical provisions. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Subsection V. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 256. "Sub-section VI" "Sustainability of a group against centrally managed risk-management groups." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Subsection VI. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 257.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u71	This is where we stop, because after that, there are long texts. Is there any statements on Chapter Twenty-four, its Section I, with sub-sections from first to fifth in all, Section VI, and these are Articles 239 to 257 including, together with their names? I won't. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u72	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 258: The request shall be submitted to the European Parliament Art. 258. (1) Request under art. 257, para. 2, p. 5 in respect of a local insurance or reinsurance undertaking shall be submitted to the Commission. The Commission shall inform the other members of the supervisory college without delay and submit the request to them together with all the annexes thereto. (2) The decision on the request shall be taken jointly with the consent of all participants in the supervisory college or by the group supervisor where no agreement has been reached. The Commission shall cooperate with the other members of the supervisory college for taking, within three months from the date of receipt of the request, with all the annexes from all the college members, with a joint decision to issue or refuse to grant the requested authorisation, and with regard to the possible conditions under which the authorisation is to be granted. (3) When a joint decision on the request is reached, it shall be served on the applicant together with the reasons therefor. The decision shall be deemed final in the relations between supervisory authorities and shall be subject to application. (4) When within the term under para. 2 a joint decision shall not be reached, the group supervisor shall take its own decision on the request after discussing the observations and objections made by the other supervisory authorities within the three-month period. The decision shall contain detailed reasons and explanation where the observations and objections of the other supervisory authorities have not been adopted. The decision shall, together with its reasons, be served on the other members of the supervisory college and on the applicant. The decision shall be deemed final in the relations between supervisory authorities and shall be subject to application. First, second, third and fourth sentences shall also apply where the committee is a group supervisory authority and it shall be ruled on its own at the request of art. 257, para. 2, p. 5. (5) Where no joint decision has been reached and the term under para. 2 has not expired, the Commission may refer to the European Authority in accordance with Article 2. 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010. Where the Commission is a group supervisory authority and the European Authority has been referred to in art. 19 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of The Commission shall postpone the decision on its own pending the decision of the European Authority and shall take the decision in accordance with that decision. The decision of the Commission, respectively of another body, acting as a group supervisor, taken in accordance with the decision of the European Authority pursuant to art. Article 19 (3) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 No 716/2009 shall be deemed to be definitive in the relations between supervisory authorities and shall be subject to application. (6) If in accordance with Article 41 (2) and (3) and with art. 44 paragraphs 1 and 3 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010, the decision proposed by the working group shall be rejected, a decision on the request under art. 257, para. 2, p. 5 shall be taken by the committee on a proposal from the Vice-President when he is a group supervisor by another group supervisor, respectively. The decision shall be deemed final in the relations between supervisory authorities and shall be subject to application. The three-month period shall be considered as a reconciliation period within the meaning of Article 19 (2) of that Regulation. (7) The uniform conditions for the codecision process shall be laid down by an act of the European Commission. (8) Alinei 4 "7" shall apply in all cases where the Commission is a group supervisory authority and it is responsible to rule on a request in relation to an insurance company which does not have its registered office in the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 259: "Determining of the Solvency Capital Requirement' of subsidiaries of a centrally managed risk group Art. 259. (1) For the calculation of the Solvency Capital Requirement of an insurance or reinsurance undertaking which is a subsidiary in a group with centralised risk management, para. 2-9, regardless of the provisions of art. 252 and 253. (2) Where the Solvency Capital Requirement of a local insurance or reinsurance undertaking under para. 1 shall be determined according to an internal model approved at the level of the group under art. 252, and the committee, on a proposal from the Vice-President, considers that his risk profile deviates significantly from this internal model, and if that person fails to comply with the Commission's regulations, it may propose: 1. adding capital to its solvency capital requirement calculated with the internal model, or 2. in exceptional cases where the addition of capital under point 2. 1 is not appropriate, ordering to calculate the Solvency Capital Requirement according to the standard formula. (3) Where the Solvency Capital Requirement of a local insurance or reinsurance undertaking under para. 1 shall be calculated according to the standard formula and the Commission, on a proposal from the Vice-President, consider that his risk profile deviates significantly from the assumptions underlying the standard formula and, if that person fails to comply with the Commission's regulations, it may, in exceptional cases, propose: 1. the person replaces part of the parameters used in the calculation of the standard formula with parameters specific to him for the calculation of the life insurance risk modules, the insurance undertaking or the health insurance undertaking risk under art. 174, or 2. adding capital to its own solvency capital requirement in the cases referred to in art. 585. (4) The Commission shall discuss the proposal under para. 2 under para 2 respectively. 3 in the supervisory college, stating its observations to the college and to the insurance or reinsurance undertaking. (5) The Commission shall take action to reach a coherent decision within the supervisory college on the proposed measures or other possible measures. A sentence shall also apply first when the committee is a member of a supervisory college and another supervisory authority has proposed measures within the meaning of para. 2 or 3 in respect of an insurance or reinsurance undertaking authorised by it. The agreed decision reached shall be deemed final in the relations between the supervisory authorities and shall be subject to application. If a concerted decision is not reached within one month of the date of the proposal under para. 2 or 3, the committee, respectively, the other supervisory authority that proposed the measures, may take the decision on its own. (6) Where the Commission and the group supervisor fail to reach an agreement, and where no agreed solution has been reached, and the term under para. 5 has not expired, the Commission may request assistance from the European Authority in accordance with Article 5. 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010. Where the European Authority has been addressed in accordance with art. 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010, the Commission shall postpone the decision to take its own decision until the European Authority has given its decision and shall take its decision in accordance with that decision. The decision of the committee, taken in accordance with the decision of the European Authority under the procedure of art. 19 (3) of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 shall be deemed to be definitive in the relations between supervisory authorities and shall be subject to application. The one-month period under para. The fourth sentence is considered as a period of reconciliation within the meaning of Article 19 (2) of that Regulation. (7) The self-decision under para. 5, respectively, under para. 6 shall be motivated and made available to the insurance or reinsurance undertaking and to the supervisory college. (8) Alinea 6 shall also apply for the resolution of the contradictions in the application of para. 2 or 3 between the committee where it is a group supervisor and another supervisory authority within the supervisory college. (9) The pronunciation of the European Authority in the cases under para. 8 shall not replace the discretion of national supervisory authorities where it is in accordance with European Union law. The European Authority must resolve the contradictions by mediating the supervisory authorities. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 260: Non-compliance with the Solvency Capital Requirement or a minimum capital requirement from subsidiaries in a centrally managed risk group Art. 260. (1) Where a resident insurance or reinsurance undertaking which is a subsidiary in a centralised risk management group does not comply with the Solvency Capital Requirement and regardless of the requirements of art. 214, para. 2, p. Art. 1 and 3, Art. 215, para. 1 and para. Art. 3-5 and art. 216, the committee shall, on a proposal from the Vice-President, without delay send to the Supervisory College the solvency recovery plan submitted by the insurance or reinsurance undertaking to achieve within 6 months of the finding of the failure to comply with the solvency capital requirement to recover its compliance. (2) The Commission shall take action to reach a concerted decision within the supervisory college to approve the submitted plan within 4 months of the date of establishment of the failure to comply with the solvency capital requirement. A sentence shall also apply first where another supervisory authority has proposed the approval of a solvency recovery plan with regard to an insurance or reinsurance undertaking authorised by it. (3) When no agreement is reached under para. 2, the Commission shall decide independently on the approval of the solvency recovery plan by discussing the observations and objections of the other participants in the supervisory college. (4) When it detects a deterioration of the financial condition under art. 214, para. 1 of a local insurance or reinsurance undertaking which is a subsidiary in a group with centralised risk management, the Commission shall immediately notify the supervisory college of the measures it proposes to take. In addition to emergency situations, the measures shall be discussed within the supervisory college. (5) The Commission shall take action to reach a coherent decision within the supervisory college on the proposed measures within a period of not more than one month of notification. A sentence shall also apply first where the committee is a member of a supervisory college and another supervisory authority has proposed measures in respect of an insurance or reinsurance undertaking authorised by it. (6) When no agreement is reached under para. 5, the Commission shall take its own decision on the application of measures to the insurance or reinsurance undertaking by discussing the observations and objections of the other participants in the supervisory college. (7) Where a local insurance or reinsurance undertaking which is a subsidiary of a centralised risk management group does not comply with the minimum capital requirement and regardless of the requirements of art. 214, para. 2, p. Art. 2 and 3, Art. 215, para. 2-5, the Commission shall immediately send to the supervisory college the short-term plan submitted by the insurance or reinsurance undertaking so that the objectives of the short-term plan can be achieved within three months of the finding of non-compliance with the minimum capital requirement. The Commission shall notify the supervisory college of the measures applied to the insurance or reinsurance undertaking to ensure compliance with the plan. (8) If the Commission and the group supervisor do not agree on the approval of the plan for the recovery of solvency within the 4-month period under para. 2 or on the approval of the proposed measures within the one-month period under para. 5 as well as if a concerted solution has not been reached, and if the specified deadlines have not expired, and if there is no emergency under para. 4, the Commission may request assistance from the European Authority in accordance with Article 4. 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010. Where the European Authority has been addressed in accordance with art. 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010, the Commission shall postpone the decision to take its own decision until the European Authority has given its decision and shall take its decision in accordance with that decision. The decision of the Commission taken in accordance with the decision of the European Authority pursuant to art. 19 (3) of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 shall be deemed to be definitive in the relations between supervisory authorities and shall be subject to application. The one-month term under para. 5 shall be considered a period of reconciliation within the meaning of Article 19 (2) of that Regulation. The reasoned decision of the Commission shall be served on the insurer, the re-insurer, and on the members of the supervisory college respectively. (9) Alinea 8 shall also apply for the resolution of the contradictions in the application of para. 1-6 between the committee where it is a group supervisor and another supervisory authority within the supervisory college. (10) The pronunciation of the European Authority under para. 8 shall not replace the discretion of the committee where it is in accordance with European Union law. In cases of contradictions between supervisory authorities, the European Authority shall assist in authorising them. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 261: "Excludes a subsidiary of an insurance or reinsurance undertaking from the scope of a centrally managed risk group Art. 261. (1) A subsidiary that is an insurance or reinsurance undertaking shall be excluded from the scope of a centralised risk management group and shall not be subject to supervision under the rules of this Subsection where it no longer: 1. there is a condition under Art. 1. 257, para. 2, p. 1; 2. the condition laid down in Article 2 has been met. 257, para. 2, p. 2 and the group did not restore its compliance within an appropriate time limit; 3. there are conditions under art. 257, para. 2, p. Three and four. (2) Where the Commission is a group supervisor and it decides to exclude an undertaking under para. 1, t. 1 within the scope of group supervision, it shall immediately inform the relevant supervisory authority and the parent undertaking. The Commission shall take the decision referred to in the first sentence after consultation at the supervisory college. (3) The parent of a group with centralized risk management shall be responsible for the continued compliance with the conditions of art. 257, para. 2, p. Two-four. In the event that any of these conditions cease to exist, the parent undertaking concerned shall immediately notify the Commission and the relevant supervisory authority of the subsidiary and shall submit a plan to restore compliance with the condition within an appropriate time limit. (4) Where the Commission is a supervisory authority of a group with centralized risk management, it shall verify at least annually whether the conditions under art. 257, para. 2, p. 2-4 is being followed. The Commission shall, on a proposal from the Vice-President, carry out the verification referred to in the first sentence and at the request of the supervisory college body concerned. Where the Commission is a member of a supervisory college and a local insurance or reinsurance undertaking is included in the scope of a group with centralised risk management, it may request the relevant supervisory authority of the group to verify the availability of the conditions under art. 257, para. 2, p. 2-4 relative to local insurance or reinsurance. (5) When in the cases of inspection under para. 4 weaknesses have been identified, the Commission shall order the parent undertaking concerned to submit a recovery plan for compliance with the violated conditions within an appropriate time limit. (6) Where the Commission is the supervisory authority of the group under para. 4 sentence one, it determines whether the plan under para. 3 under para 3 respectively. 5 is sufficient, respectively, if it is implemented in coordination with the supervisory college. Where it is established that the plan is insufficient, respectively, that it is not implemented and that the conditions under art. 257, para. 2, p. 2-4, the Commission shall inform the supervisory authority concerned without delay. (7) The exempted insurer, respectively, may again be included in the scope of the centrally managed risk group under art. 258. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 262.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u73	Statements? I won't. I vote on members from 258 to 262 by importer who are supported by the Commission, some edited and found a place in the Commission report, along with their names. Please vote. Vote 107 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 2. Articles 258 to 262 on the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u74	"Department II.............................................................................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 263. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 264. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 265. "Chapter Twenty-Five" Group Supervision Authority. A supervisory college. Cooperation between supervisory authorities and other support measures for group supervision. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Twenty-Five. Articles 266 to 278, including, are supported by the importing Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u75	Are there any speeches? No. I shall put to the vote the name of Section II, the name of Chapter Twenty-Five by importer, as well as the texts of the importer as Articles 263 to 278, including those supported by the Commission and found their place in its report. Please vote. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. The name of Section II and Chapter Twenty-Five, Articles 263 to 278 by importer have been adopted, according to the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u76	The Commission supports the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Twenty-sixth. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I Groupes headed by insurance, reinsurance, mixed insurance holding company or mixed financial holding company in a third country. The Commission shall support the entries of the importer as members from 279 to 283 by importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II, the group headed by the mixed insurance holding company. The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for Articles 284 and 285.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u77	I put to the vote the name of Chapter Twenty-Six, the name of Sections I and II and Articles 279 to 285 of the importer, which are supported by the Commission and have a place in its report. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The names of Chapter Twenty-Six, Sections I and II, as well as the texts of Articles 279 to 285, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u78	The Commission supports the entry of the importer for the name of Part Three, the Distribution of insurance and reinsurance products. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Title One. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Twenty-Species. The Commission shall support the entries of the importer as members from 286 to 290 including by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u79	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the names of Part Three, Title one, Chapter twenty-seven and the texts of Articles 286 to 290, including by importer, which are supported by the Commission and shall be placed in its report. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The names of Part Three, Titles 1 and 2 and Chapter Twenty-Seven and the texts of Articles 286 to 290 on the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u80	The Commission supports the importer's text on the name of Chapter Twenty-eighths in relation to the immediate supply and conclusion of insurance by an insurance company. The Commission supports the texts of the importer as members from 291 to 293.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u81	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the name of Chapter Twenty-eighth by importer, supported by the Commission, as well as the texts of Articles 291 to 293, including by importer, also supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The name of Chapter Twenty-eighth and the wording of Articles 291 to 293 on the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u82	The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Title 2 of the Insurance Intermediaries. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Twenty-nine. The Commission supports the texts of the importer as members from 294 to 298 inclusive. The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following wording: art. 299: "Avoiding conflict of interest and protecting the insurance secret Art. 299. The insurance intermediaries shall apply art. 146, para. 5-8, Articles 149-151. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 300: "Current supervision" Art. 300. The Vice-President shall supervise the activities of insurance and reinsurance intermediaries on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u83	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the names of Title Two and Chapter Twenty-nine by importer, supported by the Commission, the texts of Articles 294 to 298 by importer, supported by the Commission and the Articles 299 and 300 edited by the Commission in accordance with its report. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The names of Title Two, Chapter Twenty-nine and the texts of Articles 294 to 300 on the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u84	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for Articles 301 and 302. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. The Commission supports the texts of the importer as members from 303 to 306 inclusive. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the texts of the importer as members from 307 to 312 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u85	Statements? I won't. I vote on the names of the importer for Chapter 30 and Sections I, II and III, which are supported by the Commission, as well as Articles 301 to 312 including an importer supported by the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The name of Chapter 30, Sections I, II and III of the Commission report and Articles 301 to 312 included have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u86	"Chapter Thirty-First Insurance Agents." The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter 30 first. "Department I.. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. Under art. Article 313 314 The Commission supports the text of the importer. Under art. 315 has a proposal from the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 315: "Personal restrictions" Art. 315. (1) The insurance agent may mediate for one insurance undertaking authorised to carry out an insurance activity covering the insurance classes referred to in Section I of Annex 1 and for one insurance undertaking authorised to carry out an insurance activity covering the insurance classes referred to in Section II of Annex No 1. (2) With the consent of the insurers under para. 1 The insurance agent may also conduct insurance brokerage for other insurers if it provides insurance brokerage other than the insurance class for which it is authorised by the insurers under para. 1. (3) In cases where the insurance agent mediates for an insurance company referred to in Section I of Annex No 1 which has a licence and under point (c) of Section I of Annex No 1. 1 and/or t. Section II of Annex No 1 may mediate for another insurer licensed under Section II of Annex 1 with the exception of insurance brokerage under Section II of Annex No 1. 1 and 2 (A "A') Section II of Annex No 1. (4) Where two or more persons who are affiliated persons or who operate in a common space, by common means or by other means, from which a reasoned conclusion can be drawn that they act unitedly, each individual activity as an insurance agent for different insurers shall be deemed to be engaged together as an insurance broker without the legal registration required, except in the following cases: 1. when all persons are employees of the same agent who complies with the restrictions under para. 1 and 2, or 2. when all persons are agents and with their activities together do not violate the restriction under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u87	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name proposed by the importer for Chapter 30 first, as well as the name of Section I, Articles 313 and 314 by importer, all supported by the Commission and the text edited by the Commission of the importer for art. 315, according to the same report. Please vote. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The name of Chapter 30 first, the name of Section I and Articles 313 to 315, including the Commission report, have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u88	"Department II" Terms and conditions for carrying out business as an insurance agent. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 316. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 317: "Training of insurance agents" Art. 317. (1) Insurance agents shall be required to provide training to insurance agents with whom they have concluded an insurance agreement, as well as insurance agents' employees who offer insurance products. (2) The insurance officer shall be obliged to conduct an examination at the end of the training and to issue a certificate to the successfully qualified insurance agents, which shall also certify the training carried out relating to the knowledge and supply of insurance and the right to offer the insurance classes specified in the certificate. (3) Each insurance company shall carry out periodic trainings of its agents and their employees who offer insurance products. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 318: supplier compliance check Art. 318. (1) Before entering into an insurance agreement, the insurance officer shall establish whether the person with whom he enters into a contract meets the requirements of art. 316. (2) In case the person under para. 1 there is no insurance. Professional liability. The insured person who has entered into a contract with him shall be fully responsible for his actions in connection with the performance of the insurance intermediary under the contract. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 319. Under art. Art. 320 321 The Commission supports the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u89	Statements? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of Section II, art. Article 316 by importer, Art. 319 to 321 including by importer and the Commission's edited text for art. 317 and 318, according to the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The name of Section II and Articles 316 to 321, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u90	"Chapter 30 and Second "The right of establishment and freedom to provide services to insurance intermediaries. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Thirty-Second. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 322: In the case of an insurance broker, an insurance broker shall be responsible for the performance of his or her activities. and insurance agent from the Republic of Bulgaria in another Member State Art. 322. (1) An insurance broker and an insurance agent registered under the terms and conditions of Chapter 30, Chapter 30 first, respectively, may operate in the territory of another Member State (accepting State) under the conditions of the right of establishment and the freedom to provide services. (2) The insurance broker or insurance agent registered in the Republic of Bulgaria who intends to operate in one or more host Member States under the conditions of the right of establishment or freedom to provide services shall inform the Vice-President thereof in advance. (3) Within one month of receipt of the notification under para. 2 The Vice-President shall inform the relevant competent authority of the host Member State, if it wishes to be notified, of the intention of the insurance broker or insurance agent to operate in its territory. The Vice-President shall immediately inform the insurance broker, the insurance agent, of the notification to the competent authority of the host Member State or of the fact that the host Member State does not wish to be notified. (4) The insurance broker, the insurance agent respectively, may start operating in the territory of the host Member State after the expiry of one month of its notification under para. 3. If the host Member State does not wish to be notified, the insurance broker, the insurance agent, respectively, may immediately begin to carry out its activities, subject to the law of the host Member State. (5) The Vice-President shall immediately inform the relevant competent authority of the host State where the insurance broker, respectively the insurance agent, is deleted from the register under art. 30, para. 1, t. 11 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 323.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u91	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter Thirty-Second, as proposed by the importer and supported by the Commission, art. 322 in the version by the Commission, after partial support of the text of the importer, and art. 323, as proposed by the importer and supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The name of Chapter 30 second and Articles 322 and 323 on the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u92	"Administration of information from distributors and other practices in the distribution of insurance products'. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of Title Three: Practices in the distribution of insurance products. "Chapter thirty-third": "Supporting of information." The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Thirty-third. "Section I - Information on the insurance or insurance intermediary'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 324. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 325. "Section II - Information on the insurance product'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 326. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 327. Article 328 "Information provided during the operation of the insurance contract'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 328: Information provided during the operation of the insurance contract Art. 328. (1) The insurance provider shall provide the insured with the following information during the operation of the insurance contract under Section I of Annex 1: 1. any change in the general conditions if the applicable legislation permits this without the consent of the insured; 2. any change in the company of the insurer, its legal organizational form or address of management, respectively in the address of the management of the branch with which the contract is concluded; 3. the information under art. 327, para. 1, t. 4 - 10, in the event that the change in the general terms and conditions or the applicable legislation accordingly leads to a change in those arrangements; 4. Annual information on the status of bonuses. (2) Where, in connection with a proposal to conclude or conclude an insurance contract, the insurance provider shall provide data on the amount of any payments above and outside the contractual payments, the insurance provider shall provide the insurance provider with an indicative calculation by which payment at maturity is determined on the basis of the premium calculation of three different interest rates. This does not apply to short-term insurance. The insurance provider shall inform the insurer, in a clear and understandable manner, that the indicative calculation is only a calculation example based on abstract assumptions and that the insurer cannot justify any contractual claims on the basis of the indicative calculation. (3) In the case of insurance involving the result, the insured shall inform the insured person in writing and annually of the state of his claims representing participation in the result. In addition, where the insurer has provided data on the possible future development of the participation in the result, it shall inform the insurer of the differences between the actual development and the initial data. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 329. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 330: "Instructions for the provision of information to insurance service users Art. 330. (1) Insurance distributors shall provide free information to insurance users: 1. in paper form; 2. in a clear and correct manner, understandable to the user of insurance services; 3. in the official language of the Member State in which the risk is located or in another language with the consent of the insurance service user. (2) The information under para. 1 can also be provided on another durable medium.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u93	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the names of Title Three, Chapter thirty-third, of Sections I and II, as proposed by the importer and supported by the Commission; Articles 324 to 327 by importer, supported by the Commission; edited by the Commission art. 328 by importer according to the report; 329 by importer supported by the Commission; and the Commission's version of the proposed text by the importer for art. 330. Vote 91 MPs: 90 against 1, no abstentions. The names of Title Three, Chapter 30 and Sections I and II, Articles 324 to 330, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u94	"Chapter thirty-four" Practices in the distribution of insurance products. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Thirty-four. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 331: suppliing online insurance Art. 331. Insurance, respectively an insurance intermediary that offers insurance over the Internet, is obliged to create a website on the Internet that meets the following requirements: 1. the name and address of the insurer, respectively of the intermediary, and the legal basis for carrying out activity in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria shall be disclosed on the home page or at another visible and accessible place on the site; 2. all information is in Bulgarian; 3. the user information on the site must meet all the requirements of this Code and the Law for the provision of financial services at a distance; 4. The insurance service user may freely familiarize himself with all the terms of the contract. Under art. 332 has a proposal from MP Grozdan Karadzhov: Art. 332 to engulf. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs: Art. 332 is amended as follows: "Requirements on the conclusion of a distance of insurance and liability of the motorists and insurance of an accident" of passengers in the means of public transport Art. 332. (1) In the case of insurance, the liability of the motorists and the insurance of an accident of passengers in the means of public transport at a distance or by means of technical means, the insurance officer shall require an electronic image of the vehicle registration certificate containing the registration data of the vehicle. (2) The insurance or insurance intermediary shall provide the insurance intermediary with the opportunity to verify and confirm by electronic means the vehicle registration number he has entered before the contract is concluded. Upon confirmation by the insurer, the liability of the insurer shall only extend to the vehicle with the registered registration number indicated, irrespective of whether the insured person was in error. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Saveklieva, Georgieva and Popova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 332: "Requirements for the conclusion of distance insurance contracts Art. 332. (1) An insurance contract may be concluded at a distance only in one of the following ways: 1. in electronic form according to art. 344, para. 2, signed by qualified electronic signatures of the Parties within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No but not covered by Directive 1999/93/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and certification services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC (OB, L 257/3 of 28 August 2014).) 2. in paper form with hand signatures of the parties; 3. through a website on the Internet under the order of para. 4. (2) When concluding at a distance in the form of an electronic document of an insurance contract under the insurance of liability and insurance of passengers in the means of public transport under para. 1, the insurance intermediary shall, respectively, be obliged, within three working days of the signing of the contract, to provide the insured insurance contract reproduced in paper form as a copy signed by the insurance intermediary by the insurance intermediary, respectively. In order to exercise his right to decline according to the order of art. 12 of the Law on the provision of distance financial services, the insurer, which is a consumer within the meaning of art. 7, para. 2 of the same law, is obliged to return to the insurer the received copy certifying the conclusion of the insurance contract. (3) When concluding at a distance in the form of an electronic document of an insurance contract, the liability of the motorists under para. 1, the insurance intermediary, respectively, is obliged, within three working days, to provide the insurance policy insured, reproduced in paper form as a copy signed by the insurance intermediary, respectively the insurance intermediary certifying the existence of an insurance contract, accompanied by a sign under art. 488 &amp; Certificate 489. In order to exercise his right to decline according to the order of art. 12 of the Law on the provision of distance financial services, the insurer, which is a consumer within the meaning of art. 7, para. 2 of the same law, is obliged to return to the insurance officer the received copy proving the existence of an insurance contract, the certificate................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 488 according to the regulation art. 505, para. 1. (4) The written form shall be deemed to be respected and without the signature of the insurance officer if he has paid the insurance premium or the corresponding contribution to it via the same site, with a credit or debit card issued in the name of the insured person. In the case referred to in the sentence first, the insurance intermediary shall, within three working days, provide the insurance policy insured in paper form signed by the insurance intermediary, respectively the insurance intermediary accompanied by a sign under art. 488 &amp; Certificate 489. In this case, the insurance policy holder's signature is not necessary. In order to exercise his right to decline according to the order of art. 12 of the Law on the provision of distance financial services, the insurer, which is a consumer within the meaning of art. 7, para. 2 of the same law, is obliged to return to the insurance intermediary, respectively the insurance intermediary, the insurance policy received, the certificate Art. 488 under the ordinance of Art. 488 505, para. 1. (5) In the cases under para. 4, the contract shall be deemed to be concluded from the moment of receipt by the insurer, by electronic means, of the confirmation of the insurer or insurance intermediary, of the conclusion of the contract. The entry into force of the insurance cover shall be explicitly agreed with the insurance contract but shall not be earlier than 00.00 hours of the day following the day of the conclusion of the contract. (6) Compulsory insurance of motor vehicles may be concluded by an insurance or insurance intermediary at a distance after it has received from the insurance service user a copy of part one of the licence to register the motor vehicle in relation to which the insurance is concluded.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u95	Statements? Here you go. People's representative Martin Dimitrov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u96	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! What I would like to draw your attention to is art. 332 and its editing. First of all, to start with the good news, it is a great success for the Commission that the bill has been amended as it has been tabled, according to the importer's proposal, all online insurance has been banned. As this bill has been tabled, there will be no online insurance, and we are talking about an e-government, tomorrow, God willing, we will introduce an electronic vote. Under circumstances unknown to us, the importer, in this case, the Council of Ministers, was proposing a ban on online insurance, i.e. the Commission is taking a very big step, allowing the conclusion of long-distance insurance and explaining how to do so. This is where the problem comes from. The problem does not come all the way, it is said: when you make online insurance after three working days you have to get back through the courier insurance in paper form. Next, it becomes clear: and not only that... and stickers, and so on. Colleagues, here comes the question that is not resolved fully. I appreciate and understand the big step we are taking as an Economic Commission and congratulate all the colleagues with whom we have introduced online insurance. But I wish we could be even braver. I wish we could take this step all the way to the 21st century...... why make the person who made online insurance wait by courier to receive paper and sticker after that. Why is that necessary? Moreover, we retain the conventional order. We're saying that whoever wants to use a broker who wants to go to the insurance company's office, but whoever wants, like me, can also make online insurance, that is, they exist in competitive order all the ways. The Bulgarian citizen can choose this method of insurance that he wants. But online insurance we do not introduce it into its clean and most useful for Bulgarian citizens. I call on you, colleagues, although I do realize that perhaps the expectation of such a step to be taken at once is excessive, but nevertheless I call on you, I have a proposal, we, as a Reformation Block, have a proposal under this article, and we say so: to enter the following mode: you send your big coupon to the insurance company by email, it returns you by email insurance and things end. No couriers, no paper, no stickers, no paper. This is online electronic insurance, e-government. It's not good to introduce an e-government and leave the paper. There's no point in that either. There are many ways to prove that insurance is concluded and many ways to protect. For example, when I use my online banking, the bank, honourable colleagues, does not send me paper after what I have done. I'm not getting anything from the bank. Neither do I want nor do I receive any such thing, and through online banking I dispose of much greater amounts than with the insurance............................................................................................. This I am sure applies both to you and to hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens. You do your online banking and then you don't get a sticker or a printout or a paper copy. This is an online electronic service for which there is no paper. Once again, I stress that I congratulate my colleagues in the Economic Commission on the big step we have taken together. An attempt was made to ban online insurance, and we have overcome this problem, but we are only partially overcoming it. Therefore, I call on you, colleagues, to take another step towards market rules, to facilitate Bulgarian citizens, to remove paperwork. For example, one person asked me: if I pay my insurance in part four times a year, does this mean that four times a courier should bring me what I have done and paid? This leads to unnecessary costing, unnecessary costing of the service. Otherwise you'll see online insurance will lower the price. The presence of an intermediary increases between 20 and 30%. The step is correct, but if you support, colleagues, our proposal will be even more complete. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u97	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, I have an editorial proposal for art. The word "Site" should be replaced by "Side." It's an editorial proposal. In relation to art. 332 I would like to say that our proposal, which Martin Dimitrov very well argues, is for the full introduction of the electronic possibility for insurance. All over the world, or at least in Europe, is done this way. I have lived in Ireland for a very long time, where this service can be done online and I have the impression that, in fact, all this bureaucraticism that we are trying to preserve is related to the so-called green sticker. I can't understand why we need it, since we equipped all the representatives of the Ministry of Interior who are checking the cars, with some tablets that can be checked very quickly, to put the license plate on the car and to check whether there is a relevant car civil liability or not. This can even be done from an automated software. There's no need for that green sticker. I don't understand why this green sticker remains, since we are going towards a complete electronization of this service and it can be very easy at the moment. I hope you will support our proposal, which belongs to Dimitar Tanev and a group of the Reformation Block, which is for a complete electronic opportunity for civil liability. In this way, to remove bureaucraticism, because we are currently making some kind of average option, which is good, we are moving on to an electronic option, but not completely. Let's get to the bottom of this! Let's drop this famous green sticker! We do not need it, as we have taken all the action to be able to check without this sticker, whether the car has a civil responsibility! I would urge you to support this proposal in order to give a sign, as we have and have given in our documents, that e-government is a priority for the ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I want to support the two negotiating with a little shorter and simpler words. What the Commission has done and proposed to us is a hybrid, to me absolutely pointless, actually killing the idea of Internet insurance. There's no point in making Internet insurance and then waiting for a week for someone to send you a paper copy, send you a sticker, send you a green card. I'll tell you what happened to me. I lost my sticker, that is, the insurance guy didn't send it to me. This could happen to any of you, and I had to go get a duplicate, where they took me 5 levs. for sticker, 5 leva. for green card, BGN 2. for a duplicate of the liability, BGN 2 for a copy of the Kasco, and this thing could happen to any of you. If each of you gets it by email, you will be able to print it out when it comes to a copy of your responsibility or your responsibility, and you will not need to go anywhere. What is the point of the sticker, explain to me, the 21st century, when each of you on the Guarantee Fund website can check where his car is insured by the license plate?! Do this experiment and you'll see when you're insured. Not only yours, you can see my car too. Who's watching stickers now?! The benefit of the sticker is either for those who print it or for those who sell it to us insurance companies, I'm sure they earn a lot of money from this thing, because they don't cost them 5 levs as much as they took me, or for those who sell it to us insurance companies, who are wondering how to nag and start looking at your windshield whether you have a sticker or not, as this has happened to me. So in the 21st century, if we're really going to do electronic government and electronization of services, one of the first things and the most elementary is this. It's like buying a plane ticket and waiting for a week for someone to send it to you on paper. Those days are over. That is why I propose, honourable Members, vote against the Commission proposal and a very simple, simple, clear, understood proposal by my colleague Dimitar Tanev and MPs, which is classic cleared, there is no need for anything more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u101	Thank you, dear Mr. Kadyev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I shall close the debate and put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of Chapter thirty-four, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: 88, no objection, abstention 3. The name of Chapter Thirty-four has been accepted. Under art. 331 received a proposal from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev in the first sentence to replace the word "Site" with a website on the Internet. This is the Bulgarian equivalent of a site. They voted 101 MPs: 97, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. I am now putting to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in its report, for art. 331, together with the amendments just made on the proposal of the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. Article 331 has been accepted. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Grozdan Karadjov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: 14 against 17, 74 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs, which is also not supported by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: 41, against 5, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u102	Dear colleagues, what you are voting on is a living lobbying and tomorrow you will be ashamed of this thing. You vote in favour of the insurance companies to take some money for absolutely pointless stickers from each of you, and from each of the Bulgarian people and to put them inside the............................. Why?! Answer me why are you doing this thing?! Instead of holding back or not voting...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u103	Revoting procedure, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u104	...just vote. I want a re-vote. Some of the colleagues failed to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u105	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Revoting procedure. They voted 93 MPs: 34 against 4, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer, who shall, after editing the Commission, find a place as art. 332 in her report. Vote art. 332 on the Commission report. Vote 101 MPs: 95 against 1, abstention 5. Article 332 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u106	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 333. The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for art. 334 and 335. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 336 and offers in para. 2 the words "sentence first" to be replaced by "al." 1.................................................................................. Under art. 337 The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 337: "Contribution and control of the insurance intermediary Art. 337. (1) The insurance agent shall be subject to control by the compliance function and by the internal audit function of the insurance intermediary. (2) An insurance intermediary which has received a premium payment or an insurance contribution, whether concluded by its intermediary or not, shall be obliged to notify the insurer on the same day of the amount received, its basis and amount, and to transfer it to the benefit of the insurer within one month of receipt of the payment and of the compulsory insurance under art. 462, p. 1 and 2 - within 5 working days of receipt of the payment. The notification shall be made by e-mail, via the insurance or reinsurance undertaking's electronic system or otherwise agreed between the insurer and the insurance intermediary. (3) Where the insurance premium or contribution payable is paid until the expiry of the 15-day period under art. 368 para. 3 and 4, the insurer cannot terminate the insurance contract. In this case, art. 294, para. 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 338.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u107	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote Articles 333 to 335 by importer, supported by the Commission, the proposal of the Commission in art. 336, para. 2, the words "sentence first" shall be replaced by "al." Article 1 (a) of the Commission's amendments to Article 2 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 337 and the Commission's supported art. 338 by importer. Please vote. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. Articles 333 to 338, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u108	"Chapter thirty-five" Special requirements for the distribution of investment insurance products. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter 35. Articles 339 to 342, including by importer, are supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u109	We vote on the name by importer of Chapter 35 and Articles 339 to 342 by importer, all supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. Chapter 35 and Articles 339 to 342 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u110	............................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Part Four. General requirements for all insurance contracts. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Title One. "Chapter thirty-six." The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Thirty-Six. "Department I.. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 343. Under art. 344 has a proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Gorov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 344. The second sentence is created: the insurance contract is valid when the insured has sent the insurance policy issued and signed by him by e-mail, such as a scanned file, and the insured has returned in the same order, the policy signed and by him. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 344.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u111	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the names proposed by the importer for Part Four, Title One, Chapter thirty-sixth, Section I, the text of art. 343 by importer supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The names of Part Four, Title One, Chapter thirty-sixth, Section I and art. The Commission's report adopted 343. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dimitar Gorov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 85 MPs: 13 against 26, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 344, supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 84, none, abstention 3. Article 344 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u112	Art. 1 (1) (a) 345 to 354 The Commission supports the texts of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u113	We vote on the texts of the importer supported by the Commission for Articles 345 to 354 inclusive. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. Articles 345 to 345 354 on the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u114	"Department II" "Retroactive coverage." Pre-collateralisation. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. Art. 1 (1) (a) Art. 355 to Art. 355 359 including the Commission supports the text of the importer. "Department III" "Open Insurance Contract." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III. Art. 1 (1) (a) 360 to 361 The Commission supports the texts of the importer. Section IV - Announcement of circumstances related to insurance risk. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section IV. Art. 1 (1) (a) Art. 362 to Art. 362 366 including the Commission supports the texts of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u115	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the names of Sections II, III and IV by importer supported by the Commission and Articles 355 to 366 by importer, including those supported by the Commission. Please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u116	90 MPs voted: 87, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u117	"Department V" "Z" premium. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section V. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 367 and offers in para. 3 the words.. 5 and........... and....................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 368. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 369. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 370. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 371. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 372. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 373.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u118	Speeches, honourable colleagues? I can't see. We vote on the name of Section V, the proposal of the committee on art. 367...................................................................................... 3 the words.. 5 and......... and.............. and........... and........................................................................................ 368 to 373 including supported by the Commission 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u119	Divide VI.. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VI. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 374. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 375. "Department VII "Conservation". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VII. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 376. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 377. "Section VIII - Paybacks'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VIII. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 378. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 379. "Department IX "Acquittal claim or amount claim. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section IX. Article 380 "A proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 after the words the submission of the claim shall be added to the request for payment in cash and a comma shall be added after them. 2. In para. 2 words according to the words referred to in para. 1 bank account (s) shall be replaced by the bank account (s) provided for in para. 1 row and then a comma is added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 380.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u120	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of Sections VII, VII and VIII and Articles 374 to 379 including those supported by the Commission. Voting mode. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u121	Abort the vote. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Statements under art. 380? reported? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs. They voted 91 MPs: 16 against 18, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the name of Section IX and art. 380 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u122	Under art. There is a proposal from the National Representative Kiril Tsochev "Article 381." 381 drop. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs......................................................................................... 381 is amended as follows: "Presentation of the insurance claim to court or arbitrage Art. 381. (1) In an application lodged with a court or arbitration claiming payment of an insurance or payment, the applicant shall enter data for his or her bank account. In the event of a change in the bank account in the course of the trial, it shall provide updated data. (2) If the plaintiff fails to fulfil his obligations under para. 1 or that bank account is not active or does not belong to the rightful person on the day of the formation of enforcement proceedings, the insurer shall be exempt from liability for costs in the enforcement proceedings. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Delyan Dobrev, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 381: "Presentation of an insurance claim before a court or arbitration. Forced execution. Art. 381. (1) The person wishing to receive insurance or payment may claim payment before a court or arbitration only if the insured person has not ruled on the insurance claim under art. In the period referred to in Article 380. 108, has refused payment of the insurance or sum or if the person is not in accordance with the amount of the insurance or insurance benefit determined or paid, or amount paid. First sentence does not apply to insurance under point (a). 5, 6, 11 and 12, Section II, point (A) of Annex No 1. (2) An enforcement procedure by a judicial contractor under the Civil Procedure Code on the basis of an executive sheet against an insurer for payment of amounts due for insurance or payment, including costs and legal fees, shall be initiated only after having been served by the person entitled to claim on the executive sheet, an explicit written invitation for voluntary payment to the insurer, which describes the exact amount of the amounts due, the bank accounts and the holders thereof, and the insurer has not paid within 7 days of the delivery of the call. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 382.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u123	Statements? Mr. Slavov, come in. After him, Mr. Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u124	Madam President, honourable Members! I will speak in favour of the proposal of my colleague Tsochev and it is precisely to drop art. 381. I'll tell you why right now. First of all, it seems to me that the place of these provisions is not at all here, as both paragraphs are written, as they regulate matter that is regulated in the GPC, and much more in detail. That is to say, this is about the way in which the process is conducted, the way in which the action is brought, the way in which the process itself is being brought, and then upon its completion and upon receipt of a judgment against an insurance company, how the judgment is carried out accordingly. These are all things that have very detailedly found an arrangement in the Civil Procedure Code and here placed immediately give the impression that this is about some kind of lobbying, I'm telling you straight. I'll give you specific examples right away. For example, if you look at the GPC art. Art. 2, Art. 124. For example, in art. 2, it is explicitly said that the courts are obliged to examine the claims made before them. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 124 The GPC says that everyone can defend his own right to a court in the order, and here we introduce a bunch of restrictions so that each person can realise his own fundamental right, I would say, constitutional law. It is not for a reason that several Members also raise the question of the unconstitutionality of these provisions. Look what's written in para. 1 in order for an insured person, who is considered to suffer from an incorrect insurer, to bring an action against him, must comply with at least three, not to mention any more ex ante claims, as is said in the legal language, in order for him to be able to go to trial at all and for him to claim his claim before the court. And he still has to prove to the court that he asked the insurance company to rule within a certain period of time, and he hadn't pronounced himself, and he had wronged him and so on. These are all things, colleagues who are established in the trial, and this is the meaning of the trial, not in advance, to clarify these facts, but to establish the relevant evidence before the court. So this really doesn't belong here at all. And in relation to para. 2 when the person in question who has suffered from an insurance company, imagine that he has already taken the view that he has condemned the unscrupulous insurance officer, now he will have to send him a separate new invitation to invite him to pay him back voluntarily for what he has already condemned him for. On top of that, we still have a contradiction with the GPC, where very clearly in the enforcement part of art. 428 it is said that the court contractor is obliged to invite the debtor to voluntarily fulfil his obligations. In other words, we will then have another invitation, which the court contractor - whether he is public or private - will again bring to this insurance company. I think we're gonna get people into one of those Paragraph 22s that they won't be able to collect their claims for years. I'm stopping here because I see that my colleague Nikiforov also seems to want to speak on this subject. I may have beat him to it a little bit, but I absolutely support dropping out of art. 381, as my colleagues suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u125	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Nikiforov, after him Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u126	Madam President, honourable Members! I am extremely facilitated by the speech of my colleague Slavov. It was fully competent, and as a matter of fact definitely confirmed those I thought I was embarrassing. We of the ABB Parliamentary Group will not support the text of art. 381 of the Project. Our motives for this are as follows: the same is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, introducing a hypothesis in which recognised property law, in particular the claim is not subject to a single legal regime. Next, Art. 381 also contradicts the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. It not only limits the right of protection of victims, but attempts to introduce a privilege in favour of a certain group of debtors, namely through the introduction of a temporary prohibition of enforcement against them. That is why we will not support this norm. We also call on the other parliamentary groups not to allow the adoption of an unconstitutional article. 381 of the Project. Next, al. 2 creates absolute prerequisites for the ciphering of the executive process before it begins, that is, certain privileges of debtors are created in relation to the demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u127	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u128	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor for a very brief statement, as colleagues before me explained in depth and to a large extent the arguments in support of the proposal of my colleague Mr. Kiril Tsochev. I would just like to talk about the debate in the Legal Committee at first reading, which was entirely in favour of the meaning of these considerations that colleagues have put forward. We believe that there is no legal basis to privilege a single entity, in relation to all others, with regard to enforcement proceedings. We also believe that, in addition to contradictions with other laws, the text would appear in a possible attack and unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u129	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u130	Mrs. Chairman! Quite briefly, given the arguments of my fellow Members, which I fully support. The citizen who made the insurance must have a choice. He must decide whether to go to court immediately and thus seek his right and claim, or seek a voluntary manner of consent. Outside the legal arguments that you have heard and which were quite logical that the GPC has settled the issue and this is contrary to the basic law, I argue that we must not deprive the right to choose the insured to decide how best to protect his rights. By the way, as the insured is aware and knows that there is an opportunity to be sued immediately, then the voluntary method will work better and the insurers themselves will have an incentive to develop and offer voluntary consent models to be effective. But in the end, the important thing is that the citizen who insured himself has a choice to decide which way to go. So let us all support the proposal of colleague Kiril Tsochev, which is for the benefit of the Bulgarian citizen, gives him more opportunities to choose how to protect his interest and not us as Parliament or as the Economic Commission to decide for him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u131	Other Members of the National Assembly. I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I shall put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Kiril Tsochev..................................................................................................... 381 drop. The Commission does not support it, but this proposal was supported in this House. We are voting on Mr. Tsochev's proposal to drop art. 381. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion has been adopted unanimously. In this situation, Mr. Tanev, there is no way to propose amendments after the member has dropped out of the vote, nor is the text of the importer subject to the vote. From now on, the report will go with the same numbering, and in the Financial Texts, the renumbering will be consistent due to the removal of this text. [[Replication by National Representative Danail Kirilov: "Procedure."]] Just a moment to vote on art. 382 by importer supported by the Commission. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Mr. Kirilov, you want procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u132	Madam President, honourable Members! Since the vote on Friday at the extraordinary meeting did not explicitly establish its duration, I am proposing that the duration of this plenary sitting be until all the provisions of the Code that we are voting on are adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u133	A reverse opinion? I won't. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 87 MPs: 73, against 4, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Chapter thirty-seven, let's go, Mrs. Saveklieva. We're going to the finish line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u134	'Chapter thirty-something's worth's worth of collateral on a loan or a bank loan. Non-residential property insurance and proportional reinsurance - Net (of reinsurance) written premiums in The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Thirty-Seven. The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for art. Art. 383 and Art. 383 384. Under art. 385 has a proposal supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 385. "Instructions on leases and leases' Art. 385. (1) Before the conclusion of an insurance contract under point (c) of Article 4 (1) before the conclusion of an insurance contract Section II of Annex No 1 to Section II of Annex 1 between leasing and leasing insurance, in the case of financial leases and where the premium is payable and payable by a lessor, including where the insurance premium is included in the lease price, the lessor is obliged to obtain the express prior written consent of the lessor under the terms of the insurance contract. Article 383, ) (a.k.a. 5-8 shall apply accordingly. (2) On the occasion of the payment of compensation under insurance under para. 1 the lessor has rights to be insured, such as: 1. in case of partial damage, compensation shall be paid to the lessor, unless the damage is agreed to be removed in kind, in which case the costs shall be paid directly to the external contractor; 2. in the event of theft or total damage of the leasing property, the compensation shall be paid to the lessor and the insured shall be obliged to notify explicitly and in writing within one day of the day of the payment the lessor, indicating the amount of the payment made. (3) In the cases under para. 2, p. 2 The lessor may retain the compensation paid only up to the amount of outstanding obligations under the lease. The amount forfeited by the lessor shall pay the obligations of the lessor under the financial leasing contract and the lessor shall be obliged within 7 days of receipt of the compensation to pay the lessor the remainder. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Title Two. "Chapter thirty-eighth." Total requirement for contracts for insurance against damage. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Thirty-eighth. "Department I.. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the texts of the importer and the names referred to in Articles 386 to 391 inclusive. "Department II" "Multiple Insurance." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. Articles 392 to 394 by importer, including are supported by the Commission. "Department III" event. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III. Articles 395 to 398 by importer, including are supported by the Commission. "Department IV.................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section IV. Proposal by the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 399 para. 5 is deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 399.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u135	Statements? I won't. First, I will put to the vote Mr. Dimitar Tanev's unsupported proposal and a group in art. 399 para. Five to be obliterated. The Commission does not support it. Vote 85 MPs: 10, against 8, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. Anblok we vote Chapter thirty-seven with its name, Articles 383 to 399 including the names of the members and divisions included between them. Vote 87 MPs: 84, none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u136	"Chapter thirty-nine." Property insurance. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Thirty-nine. "Department I.. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for art. 400-408. suppose of payment of insurance compensation Art. 409. (1) The insured person may refuse payment of compensation only: 1. in the event of intentional causes of the insurance event by a person entitled to receive the insurance compensation; 2. in the event of intentional causes of the insurance event by the insured person for the purpose of obtaining the insurance compensation from another person; 3. in the event of non-compliance with the insurance contract by the insured, which is significant in the interest of the insurer, is provided for in a law or in the insurance contract and has led to the occurrence of the insurance event; 4. in other cases provided by law. (2) In the cases under para. 1, t. 1 where a third beneficiary has intentionally caused the insurance event without the knowledge and involvement of the insured or other beneficiaries, the compensation shall be paid to the other beneficiaries and, if not, to the insured or its heirs. In the case of payment of the insurance compensation referred to in the sentence, first the insured person enters into the rights of the insured person against the person who deliberately caused the insurance event. The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for art. 410-413. "Department II" "Carrying of the insured property." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 414 "419" inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u137	Colleagues, speeches? I won't. We vote on the name of Chapter 30th, together with its two sections.. I and II and Articles 400 to 419 including, together with their names. Vote 87 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u138	"Chapter 40." Separate classes of insurance against damages. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of Chapter 40. "Department I" "Transport insurance." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 420. "Department II.................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 421. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 422: For insurance of legal expenses. Required content Art. 422. (1) The insurance contract at legal costs shall be concluded: 1. separately from the contract to cover other risks, or 2. as a separate part of a contract covering other risks indicating the amount of the premium and the type of legal expenses covered. (2) The contract for insurance of legal expenses shall specify explicitly: 1. the order to avoid conflict of interest under art. 147 accepted by the insurer; 2. the rights of the insured under art. 424 and 425. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 423 and offers in t. 2 after the words. 422 "To be added to the list of persons, entities and bodies referred to in Article 3 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011" shall be included in the list of persons and entities to whom the freezing of funds and economic resources The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 424. The Commission, pursuant to Articles 424, 425 and 425, supports the texts of importers. "Section III - Insurance - Travel assistance. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 427. Section IV - Health (medical) insurance. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section IV.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u139	We vote on the name of Chapter 40, together with the name of the four sections thereto, and on Articles 420 to 427, including by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u140	There is a proposal from the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs under art. 428, which the Commission does not support. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 428. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 429.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u141	Statements under art. 428? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Tanev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. Vote 80 MPs: 10, against 13, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. Art. 428. 429 by importer with their respective name. Vote 78 MPs: 76, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u142	"Chapters 40 and The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 40 first. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 430. Articles 430 to 438 including by importer, as in art. 433, para. 1 at the end of the period..381....................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u143	In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 433 you are making an editorial proposal para. 1 where it ends with compliance with the requirements of art. 380. Since 381 canceled, it should be removed from the text. You reported to the end of Title Two. We are voting, fellow Members, the name of Chapter 40 and the first with Articles 430, 433 with the wording of para. 1, the removal of the text we deleted earlier, up to 438 inclusive. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u144	"Dal 3rd" Insurance "Life." Insurance, insurance, insurance, insurance, insurance, insurance, The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Title Three. "Chapter forty-two." Insurance. The Commission supports the importer's text on the name of Chapter forty-two. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 439. Art. 1 (1) (a) 439 to 447 including the texts are supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 448: Law of one-sided termination of the contract Art. 448. (1) A natural person who has entered into an individual insurance contract under an insurance contract with a duration of more than 6 months shall have the right to unilaterally terminate the contract within 30 days of the date of conclusion of the contract. (2) The person under para. 1 may exercise its right to terminate the insurance contract by unilateral written notification addressed to the insurer. As from the date of receipt of the notification by the insurer, the insurance contract shall be terminated by exempting the insurer from his or her obligations and entitled to receive the premium paid, except for the part corresponding to the time during which the insurer carries the risk if an insurance event has not occurred. The insurance company is obliged to return the relevant part of the premium within 30 days of receipt of the notification in the first sentence. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 449. The members to art. The 459 are also supported by the Commission. "Chapter forty-third insurance." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter forty-third. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 460 and offers in para. 4 the words "six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 461.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u145	We vote on Anbloc Title 3 with members from 439 to 461 including their names, including the divisions of the report. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u146	The amount to be reported in this column shall be the amount to be reported in this column. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Part Five. This is the first time I've ever heard of you. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Title One. "Chapter forty-four" General. The Commission supports the importer's text on the name of Chapter forty-four. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 462. The import texts of Articles up to 467 including the texts are supported. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 468 and offers in para. 2 words. 1 and "Chapter forty-five" "Customs and Social Security" "Customs of Responsibility." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter forty-five. Under art. Art. 469, Art. 469 Art. 470, Art. 470 The Commission has supported the importer's text. six and forty-sixth floor insurance insurance for passengers in the means of public transport. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter forty-six. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 472: "Obligible persons" Art. 472. (1) Carriers carrying out the public transport of passengers, when the starting point and end point of the journey are in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, shall be obliged to conclude and maintain compulsory insurance for passengers. (2) Means of public passenger transport shall be: 1. track vehicles; 2. trolleybuses and buses; 3. aircraft; 4. all types of vessels; 5. ropes and cables; 6. Taxis......................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 473. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 474: ? Act of compulsory insurance?? An accident? Art. 474. (1) The compulsory insurance under art. 472 has effect only when the insurance event occurred in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The boarding and unloading of passengers during the movement of the vehicle or outside the designated places shall cease the operation of the insurance unless the departure of the vehicle on the move is caused by an immediate danger to the life or health of the passenger. (3) When under the conditions of travel under para. 1 exceptional reasons require diversion of the aircraft or the public transport vessel, insurance shall have effect for the time of that deviation. The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for Articles 475 and 476. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 477 and proposes after the word: 472.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u147	We are voting Part Five and the entire Title first together with its respective chapters and Articles 462 to 477 with the names of the Members concerned. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u148	The Commission supports the text of the importer for the name of Title 2....................................................................................................................... The Commission supports the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 40 and the mandatory insurance of vehicles. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 478. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 479: He's an injured person. Damaged person Art. 479. (1) A person who has suffered death or who has suffered bodily injury from a motor vehicle has been injured. (2) The person, including the injured person, who is entitled to compensation for damage caused by a motor vehicle has been injured. Under art. 480 has a proposal from the National Representative Delyan Dobrev, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 480: "Entrepreneurship of the motorists of the trailer Art. 480. (1) Damage caused by trailer under art. 482, para. 1 sentence, second and second. 2, p. 3 which is related to a motor vehicle and is functionally dependent on that motor vehicle while driving, and/or when it is detached during driving, shall be covered by the insurance insurance officer for compulsory insurance of motor vehicles related to the ownership and use of the towing vehicle. (2) Damage caused by a trailer which is not connected to a motor vehicle and which is not functionally dependent on a motor vehicle was not in motion, as well as in the event of self-drive, shall be covered by the insurance officer for the compulsory insurance. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 481. Under art. 482 "A proposal from the National Representative Delyan Dobrev, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 482: "Motor vehicle" Art. 482. (1) For the purposes of compulsory insurance under this Chapter, a motor vehicle shall be any road vehicle powered by its own engine, as well as trams, trolleybuses and self-propelled machinery under the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forestry Equipment. For motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers under the Road Traffic Act shall also be considered. (2) For the purposes of compulsory insurance under this Chapter shall not be considered as motor vehicles: 1. track vehicles, except trams; 2. self-propelled machinery within the meaning of § 1, item 2. 12 of the Additional provision of the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forest Equipment with engine power up to 10 kW; 3. trailers category O1 (up to 750 kilograms) as defined in Regulation No 60 of 24 April 2009 on the type-approval of new motor vehicles and their trailers (not applicable, SG No. 40th of 2009, amended, No. 75, 2012, p. 77 of 2013 and No. 17 from 2015). (3) No movement of a motor vehicle shall be allowed on roads open for public use within the meaning of art. 2, para. 1 of the Road Traffic Act, without the driver being insured in accordance with this Code. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 483. The Commission supports the texts of the importer as Articles 484 to 487 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u149	That's it. We vote on Title 2 together with the articles containing 478 to 487 with their names plus the name of the subdivisions between these texts. They are by importer supported by the Commission or by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u150	Under art. 488 has a proposal from MP Grozdan Karadzhov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 488 para. 1 is amended as follows: The existence of an insurance contract for compulsory insurance of liability of the motorists shall be certified by an insurance policy issued in accordance with art. 576, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: "1." In para. 1 words and a sign issued by the Fund of guarantee shall be replaced by a record in the register of the Fund of guarantee. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: In the case of an agreed deferred payment of the insurance premium in one insurance period, the insurance provider shall register in the information system of the Guarantee Fund data only for the period until maturity of the next premium contribution. A shorter or longer period shall not be allowed to be recorded regardless of the duration of the insurance. 3. Alinea 3 is out. 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 3. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 488.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u151	That's it. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Grozdan Karadjov. The Commission does not support it. They voted 86 MPs: 20, 20, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 82 MPs: 18, against 10, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 488 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 81, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Report to art. 506 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u152	Under art. 489 has a proposal from the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 489. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 490. Under art. 491 has a proposal from the MPs Saveklieva, Georgieva and Popova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 491: "Primary insurance" The responsibility of the motorists Art. 491. (1) In the case of deferred payment, the deferred contributions from the insurance premium shall be paid within the period agreed in the insurance contract. (2) Upon termination of an insurance contract under the order of art. 368 para. 4 The insurer shall submit information on the termination at the Guarantee Fund Information Centre at the same time as the termination. (3) Upon increase of the insurance premium under art. 490 para. 2 for a subsequent insurance period at the initiative of the insurer due to an increase in risk, the insurer is required to notify the insurer in writing not later than one month before the end of the current insurance period. In the cases referred to in the first sentence, the insured person shall have the right to terminate the insurance contract without penalties or other costs and the termination shall take effect from the end of the current insurance period. In the case of sentences first and second, the contract shall be deemed to be terminated with the expiry of the current insurance period and where the insurer does not pay the increased premium for the following insurance period. (4) Upon termination of an insurance contract under para. 3 sentence one, the insurer shall submit information on the time of termination of the contract indicating the end of the current insurance period to the Information Centre of the Guarantee Fund no later than the date of receipt of the notice. In the case of para. The second sentence of paragraph 3 shall apply. 2. (5) The insurance premium for compulsory insurance shall be adjusted by the insurance officer according to uniform requirements for the adjustment of the premium depending on the driver's behaviour in road traffic and/or the damage caused (the Bonus-malus system). The uniform requirements, as well as the terms and conditions of their implementation, shall be laid down by a joint regulation of the Commission, the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, taking into account the opinion of the Guarantee Fund. The Commission shall support the text of the importer from art. Art. 492 to Art. 492 498 inclusive. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 499: Art. 499. (1) The injured person wishing to receive insurance compensation shall be obliged to refer to the insurer a written insurance claim in accordance with art. 380 except in cases where the insured person for the insurance of the injured person has entered into his rights and he claims on the basis of art. 412. (2) The injured person shall be obliged to present to the insurance insurance insurance officer the liability of the culprit driver's drivers the documents at his disposal which are related to the insurance event and the damage caused by assisting him in establishing the circumstances of the event and the extent of the damage. (3) The injured person may claim payment to the court only if the insured person has not paid within the term of art. 497 refuse to pay compensation or if the injured person does not comply with the amount of the compensation determined or paid. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 500 and offers in para. 5 after the words the guarantee fund to be added by art. 519 (a.k.a. 7 all over the words. To be replaced by............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 519. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 501 and offers in para. 1 words "al." 1............................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 502 503. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 504 and offers in para. 8 after the words the guarantee fund to be added by art. 519. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 505 506.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u153	Colleagues, we are voting for members with numbers from 489 to 506 including their names, supported by the Committee on Importation or in the version of the Commission, together with names between these texts of the subdivisions. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u154	"Chapter forty-eighth" National Bureau of the Bulgarian Motor Vehicles. The Commission supports the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four and Eight. "Department I.. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 507 508. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 509 and offers in para. 3 the words "sentence first" to be replaced by "al." 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 510 511. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 512 and offers in para. 3 the words.. 1. 3..................................................................................................................... And it's going to be 381. It's going to be two places.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u155	This is now the work of the Final Texts. When he dropped the lyrics, he wasn't here either.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u156	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Articles 513, 514 and 515. Section II "Compensation authority." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Articles 516 and 517. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 518 and offers in para. 3 after the words the guarantee fund to be added by art. 519. "Administrative Fund." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Title Three. "Chapter forty-nine." General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter forty-nine. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 519 and offers in para. 3 to be added at the end by art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union). 1, t. In paragraph 1, the following paragraph The Commission shall support the text of the importer from art. Article 520 524 inclusive. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 525 and offers the words. 1 or 2s shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer from art. Article 526 533 included. "Chapter 50" "Management of the Guarantee Fund." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 50. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Articles 534 and 535. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 536 and offers in t. 9 words. 1 and The Commission shall support the text of the importer from art. Article 537 554. "Chapters 50 and 1" "Uninsured Vehicle Fund of the Guarantee Fund." The Commission supports the importer's text on the name of Chapter fifty-one. The Commission shall support the text of the importer from art. Article 555 to art. 560 included.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u157	Colleagues, we are voting on Chapter 40 with the articles contained in it from 507 to 560, including their names and the divisions on the Commission report, as presented to us by the rapporteur. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted. For the shorthand: everywhere in the text after the removal of art. 381 on the report, where it concerns art. 381, to take into account the text rejected by the National Assembly and not the new text that will be renumbered. To be adjusted very carefully in the correct arrangement of the texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u158	Under art. 561 has a proposal from the MP Stefan Kenov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 561: "Payments for preventive events of the non-insured vehicle fund Art. 561. (1) Five percent of the funds of the Fund for uninsured vehicles raised under art. 555, t. 1 in the previous year on compulsory insurance.................................................................................................. The funds shall be spent on projects approved by a joint decision of the Commission and of the Minister of Interior after taking the opinion of the Guarantee Fund. Where necessary, opinions shall also be sought from state authorities and non-governmental organisations involved in road safety. (2) The projects under para. 1 shall be annual, contain a financial justification for the specific activities and the necessary means for them and shall be submitted by the Minister of Interior to the Commission no later than 1 April of that year. (3) The contracts for the implementation of the projects under para. 1 shall be concluded by the Guarantee Fund. The ownership of the contracts acquired under these contracts shall be transferred free of charge to the authorities responsible for road safety by applying art. 519 para. 4. (4) In case the projects under para. 1 have not been submitted to the committee within the term under para. 1 or the funds under para. 1 provided for in the relevant year have not been used under programmes adopted for the same year, the funds shall remain in favour of the Guarantee Fund. (5) The report on the activities of the Guarantee Fund under art. 536, t. 5 includes a detailed report on the spending of the funds under para. 1. (6) Paragraph 1 shall not apply where the amount of available funds of the Fund for uninsured vehicles after deduction of the funds under para. 1 is less than 50,000 leva. Where the shortage occurs after the annual programme of expenditure is validated, the Management Board shall immediately inform the Commission, the Minister of Interior and the persons party to the contracts under para. Three, and he's shutting down the funding. The guarantee fund and another person who is a party to a contract financed by means of para. 1 shall not be liable for penalties and any other damage where the financing under the contract has been suspended in accordance with the order of sentence two. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 562. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 563. "Chapter 50 and Second Guarantee Fund. " The Commission supports the importer's text on the name of Chapter fifty-two. Finance of the Guarantee Fund. The Commission shall support the text of the importer from art. Article 564 571 inclusive. "Chapter fifty-third" Information Centre of the Guarantee Fund. The Commission supports the importer's text on the name of Chapter fifty-third. Art. 1 (1) (a) Article 572 to Art. 572 574 including the texts are supported by the importing Commission. Under art. 575 has a proposal from the MP Delyan Dobrev, made according to the order art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 575 and offers: "1." In para. 2, p. 4 words under art. 520, t. Art. 4 and 6, Art. Art. 573, Art. 573, In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Art. 10 and art. 576, para. The first paragraph is replaced by the following: Art. 10, art. 520, t. Art. 4 and 6, Art. Art. 573 576, para. 4............................................................................................ 2. Paragraph 11 shall be amended as follows: The competent authorities referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union and shall be the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union and of the Member States of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the one part, and of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part. 1 take measures to stop the movement of motor vehicles or means of public passenger transport and/or to impose the relevant administrative penalties where no compulsory insurance has been concluded. When in term by para. 10 no evidence of a binding insurance contract has been provided for the car drivers, the Guarantee Fund shall inform the body under para. 1, t. 1 to terminate the registration of the motor vehicle. ............................................... Under art. 576 has a proposal from the MPs Saveklieva, Georgieva and Popova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text but the importer and shall propose the following version of art. 576: supplied information system Art. 576. (1) The guarantee fund shall build and maintain an electronic information system for the purposes of art. 572, as well as for risk assessment, management and control, including for the issue of policies and the provision of electronic administrative services. (2) The construction and maintenance of the information system under para. 1 shall be carried out on the basis of the following principles: 1. ensuring the actuality and accuracy of the data submitted and stored; 2. providing an appropriate data exchange environment; 3. ensuring regulated and controlled access to the data in the electronic information system, subject to the requirements of the law; 4. ensuring interoperability and information security. (3) The collection and storage of the information under para. 1 as well as the access of the insurers to it shall be governed by the ordinance of art. 572, para. 4 and with the rules of the Guarantee Fund. (4) The information system under para. 1 shall also include data on possible adjustment of the premium according to driver's behaviour in road traffic and/or damage caused (the "bonus-malus" system). (5) The information system shall maintain an automated interface to provide information for re-use in a machine readable format corresponding to an official open standard, in accordance with the procedure laid down in law. ............................................... "Sixth" Insurance Supervision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Part Six. 'Chapter fifty-four.' Current supervision.' The Commission supports the importer's text on the name of Chapter fifty-four. Articles 577 and 578 are supported by an importer. The Commission shall in principle support the text but the importer and shall propose the following version of art. 579: "Money status surveillance" Art. 579. (1) The supervision of the financial position shall include control of the overall activity of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking, its solvency, the technical reserves formed, the assets that serve to cover them and the eligible own funds in accordance with the provisions of Part Two, Title Three and Title Four. (2) The supervision under para. 1 shall also include the supervision of technical resources for the immediate provision of travel aid by insurance companies authorised under point 1. 18, Section II, point "A' of Annex No 1. When verifying the technical resources referred to in the sentence first, the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Minister of Health and other competent authorities shall be obliged to assist the Commission and the Vice-President. (3) In carrying out the supervision under para. 1 The Commission, after prior notification of this to the competent authority of the Member State of the branch, may carry out on-the-spot checks, alone or jointly with that authority. (4) A competent authority of a Member State in the exercise of its powers under national law may, after having previously notified the Commission thereof, carry out on-the-spot checks at branches registered in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, insurance or reinsurance undertakings established in that Member State. The Commission may send a representative to participate in the verification. (5) When the Commission is practically prevented from carrying out the verification under para. 3, it may call for assistance to the European Authority in accordance with Article 3. 19 paragraphs 1-3 and 6 of Regulation (EU) No1094/2010. (6) The European Authority shall be entitled to participate in checks carried out jointly by the Commission and by competent authorities from another Member State. Art. 1 (1) (a) 580 to 583 including the Commission supports the wording of importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u159	Colleagues, we are voting for members with numbers from 561 to 583 in the version of the Commission and supported by an importer along with their names, including the subdivisions. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u160	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 584: Additional instruments for quantitative assessment Art. 584. (1) In the framework of the supervisory review process, in addition to the calculation of the Solvency Capital Requirement, the Vice-President may develop, if appropriate, the necessary quantitative instruments to assess the ability of insurers or re-insurers to deal with possible events or future changes to economic conditions that could have an adverse effect on their overall financial situation. (2) The Commission, on a proposal from the Vice-President, may order the regular carrying out of stress tests by insurers and re-insurers. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and make the following version of art. 585: "Adding capital" Art. 585. (1) Following the supervisory review process, the committee on a proposal from the Vice-President may, in exceptional circumstances and by a reasoned decision, order the addition of capital to an insurance or reinsurance undertaking in the following cases: 1. where it considers that the risk profile of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking deviates significantly from the assumptions underlying the Solvency Capital Requirement calculated using the standard formula and: (a) the requirement to use an internal model under art. 190 is inappropriate or ineffective, or (b) for the time until a comprehensive or partial internal model is developed under art. 190; 2. where it considers that the risk profile of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking deviates significantly from the assumptions underlying the own funds requirement for solvency calculated using a comprehensive or partial internal model, as certain quantified risks are covered to an unsatisfactory extent and the adaptation of the model for better coverage of the risk profile has failed within a reasonable period of time; 3. where he considers that the insurance or reinsurance management system deviates significantly from the standards of art. Art. 76-79 86-100 and such deviations prevent an entity from making appropriate determination, measurement, monitoring, management and taking into account the risks to which it is or could be exposed, and the application of other measures in itself is unlikely to result in the necessary correction of deficiencies within an appropriate period of time; 4. where the insurance or reinsurance undertaking applies a matching adjustment, volatility adjustment or transitional measures, the Commission shall consider that its risk profile deviates significantly from the assumptions underlying these adjustments and transitional measures. (2) In the cases under para. 1, t. 1 and 2 the added capital shall be calculated in such a way that the person complies with the requirements of art. 170, para. 3. In the case of para. 1, t. 3 the added capital must be proportionate to the material risks arising from the shortcomings which justify the decision to add it. In the case of para. 1, t. 4 the added capital must be proportionate to the material risks arising from the deviations identified. (3) In the cases under para. 1, t. 2 and 3 the Commission and the Vice-President shall take all measures against the insurance or reinsurance undertaking in order to ensure that the prerequisites resulting in the imposition of capital add-ons are removed. (4) The Commission shall review the added capital at least once a year and shall revoke it when the insurance or reinsurance undertaking has removed the prerequisites for its imposition. (5) The solvency capital requirement including the added capital applied shall replace the inadequate solvency capital requirement. For the purposes of calculating the risk additive, where it is calculated separately, the Solvency Capital Requirement shall be taken into account without the added capital imposed under para. 1, t. 3. (6) The additional conditions and arrangements for the imposition and cancellation of the capital add-on, as well as the methodologies for its calculation, shall be determined by an act of the European Commission. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Articles 586 and 587.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u161	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Articles 584 to 587 on the Commission report on the texts of the importer supported by the Commission. Please also vote on the amendment of Articles 584 and 585. Vote 82 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 1. Articles 584 to 587 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u162	"Chapter fifty-five" Forced administrative measures. The Commission supports the importer's text on the name of Chapter fifty-five. "Department I " Types of Forced Administrative Measures. Production. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. Under art. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following wording: Types of measures Art. 588. (1) The Commission or the Vice-President may apply the measures under para. 2 and 3 where they find that an insurance company, a reinsurance company, its employees, each of the persons referred to in art. 80 persons who enter into transactions on behalf of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking, shareholders or co-operators holding directly, together with or through related persons 10 or more than 10 per cent of the votes in the general meeting or of the capital of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking, have carried out acts or have allowed omissions which may lead to or have led to: 1. breach of the provisions of this Code, of its implementing regulations, of the directly applicable law of the European Union, of acts of the Commission or of the Vice-President or of the policies of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking under art. 77; 2. obstruction of the exercise of insurance supervision; 3. endangering the financial or organisational stability of an insurance or reinsurance undertaking; 4. endangering the interests of users of insurance services. (2) In the cases under para. 1 The Vice-President may apply the following compulsory administrative measures: 1. ordering in writing specific measures to be taken to prevent or stop the offences committed or to eliminate the harmful effects of them; 2. ordering action to comply with the principle of the prudent investor; 3. in the case of an agenda designated by it, convene a general meeting of shareholders, respectively of the co-operators, or schedule a meeting of the management or control bodies to decide on the measures to be taken; 4. send representatives of the committee to the meetings of the general meeting of shareholders, respectively to the co-operators, management and control bodies; 5. obliges an insurance undertaking to enter into a contract with a person to whom it has refused to conclude; 6. sets additional requirements for the insurance or reinsurance undertaking in relation to the reporting; 7. oblige the insurance or reinsurance undertaking to release the head of one or more key functions, persons holding management positions, and/or to terminate the powers of persons entering into transactions at the expense of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking; 8. ordering the insurance or reinsurance company to terminate a contract under art. 111, para. 5; (3) In the cases under para. 1 The committee, on a proposal from the Vice-President, may: 1. order the insurance or reinsurance person in writing to take the necessary action to exempt one or more persons authorised to manage or represent him or one or more persons under art. 80 as well as the audit firm; 2. order the shareholder in writing to transfer the shares he holds within a specified period; 3. restrict or prohibit the free disposal of assets in cases of infringement under art. 123 or other provisions relating to the formation of technical provisions, in the event of non-compliance with the minimum capital requirement, respectively the minimum guarantee capital, as well as the Solvency Capital Requirement, respectively, at the solvency limit, and in the event of withdrawal of the insurance or reinsurance licence; 4. to temporarily prohibit, for a period of up to 12 months, a shareholder from exercising its voting rights; 5. appoint Quaestors for a period of up to one year; 6. prohibit the conclusion of new insurance or reinsurance contracts in all or in individual insurance classes, the extension of contracts concluded and the extension of coverage under them for a period not exceeding 6 months; 7. imposes measures for the recovery of the financial situation of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking; 8. oblige the insurance or reinsurance undertaking to increase its own funds within the specified time limit; 9. prohibits the temporary payment of dividends; 10. appoint an audit firm, actuary, valuer or other independent expert to carry out a financial, actuarial or other verification at the expense of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking. 11. to implement the measures referred to in Article 11. 145, para. Art. 1, art. Article 174, Art. 189, para. Art. 2, Art. 190, art. 199, para. Art. 2, Art. 211, para. Art. 5, art. 212, para. Art. 3, Art. 213, para. Art. 3, Art. 215, para. 3, art. Article 217, Art. 237, para. Art. 6, Art. Art. 253, Art. 254, para. Art. 2, Art. 255, para. Article 7 261, para. Five. (4) Forced administrative measure shall also be the revocation of a licence under art. 40 or 63, except where the person expressly waives the licence issued. In cases referred to in art. 40 or 63 The Commission shall prohibit the free disposal of the insurance company's assets until the liquidation or insolvency proceedings are initiated. (5) The Commission may inform the public of the measures implemented under para. 2-4 or for an activity that threatens the interests of insured persons. (6) In the application of forced administrative measures under para. 2, p. 2-4, para. 3, p. 3, 5, 6 and para. 4 The provisions of the Administrative Procedure Code concerning the explanations and objections of the persons concerned shall not apply. (7) Forced administrative measures under para. 2, p. 1 and 6 and para. 3, c. 1 and 8 may also apply to insurance brokers. (8) Depending on the nature of the transferred activity, the Vice-President may apply the forced measures under para. 2 and to third parties to whom an insurance or reinsurance undertaking has transferred an activity. (9) At the request of the Vice-President, respectively, of the Commission, the circumstances shall be recorded in the trade register, respectively the acts under para. 2, p. 3 and para. 3.... 5.............................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 589 and offers in para. 4 the words "seven" shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Articles 590 and 591. Section II - Specific rules in the enforcement proceedings of forced administrative measures. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 592 and offers in para. 1 words "al." 2, p. 3 and para. 3, p. To be replaced by............................................................................................... 3, p. Three and seven. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 593 to 597 inclusive. Chapter fifty-six, Quaestori. The Commission supports the importer's text on the name of Chapter fifty-six. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Articles 598 and 599 are supported by an importer. Under art. 600 has a proposal from the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 600, para. The second sentence shall be created: the approval shall be subject to judicial review and may not be carried out in advance, except by order of the court. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 600.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u163	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote Articles 588 to 599 including, supported by the Commission, the names of those Members as well as the names of the subdivisions. Vote 77 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 2. Articles 588 to 599 including, together with their names and the names of the subdivisions of the Commission report, have been adopted. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u164	Vote 76 MPs: 2 against 8, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 600 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 74 MPs: 72, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u165	Article 601 and Article 601 602 by importer shall be supported by the Commission. Is that what you're talking about? I'm talking about liquidation and bankruptcy. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Part Seven. "Chapters 50 and... Liquidation and The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter fifty-seven. "Department I" "Licvidation". The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I. Article 603 to Art. 603 607, including by importer, are supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 608: "Licvidator" Art. 608. (1) A liquidator shall be a natural person who shall meet the requirements of art. 80, para. 1. A liquidator by art. 607, para. 1 may also be the Guarantee Fund after obtaining agreement from its Management Board. (2) Where the liquidator violates the provisions of this Code by his actions, the implementing acts, the approved liquidation plan or the rights of insured persons, or the fulfilment of the obligations under the reinsurance contracts, the Vice-President shall issue mandatory prescriptions to the liquidator in relation to his activities which are subject to immediate execution. (3) In the cases under para. 2 The Commission may release the liquidator for which it sends its decision to the Registry Agency. The Commission shall support the text of the importer from art. Art. 609 to Art. 609 612 included. "Department II" - Incompetence. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 613 and offers in para. 1 the words "or 3" shall be dropped. The Commission shall support the text of the importer as Articles 614 to 617 inclusive. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 618: The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Art. 618. (1) Creditors shall make their claims in writing to the trade union within two months of the entry of the decision under art. 615. (2) The lenders under para. 1 indicate in their application the basis, the amount of the claim, privileges and guarantees, the address for correspondence and apply written evidence. (3) Insurance claims brought under art. 106, para. 2 shall be deemed to have been filed. This shall not waive the right of users of insurance services to declare their claims to the trade union within the period laid down in para. 1. (4) Insurance claims made after the expiry of the term under para. 1 shall be satisfied in the order of their submission after the satisfaction of the claims under Article 1. 621, p. 6................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 619. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 620 and offers in para. 3 words................................................................................. To be replaced by...............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u166	"Alinea 2" is here on the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u167	There's been a technical error.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u168	The technical error must be: in para. 3 words................................................................................. To be replaced by...............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u169	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 621 622. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 623: "Application" Art. 623. (1) This Section and Section III shall also apply to re-insurers respectively. (2) In so far as this Section and Section III does not provide otherwise, the provisions of the Commercial Law shall apply, with the exception of art. 607, 608, 611, art. In addition, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). Art. 615, 625, art. In addition, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Art. 1, art. 631, 631a, 635, 656, art. 638, para. 1, t. 3, 11 and 12, Art. 666 "684," 696 "709, 734, 740, 741 and 743. "
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u170	Colleagues, we vote with numbers 601 to 623 including, supported by an importer, others in the version of the Commission report, with their names, including the subdivisions, as in art. 620 on the Commission report, the proposal is: in para. 3 The technical error is in the report the words "al." To be replaced by............................................................................................... 1.................................................................................. We vote. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u171	Section III - Specific rules for winding-up and insolvency proceedings. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III. Art. 1 (1) (a) Art. 624 to Art. 624 633 including by importer are supported by the Commission. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 634 and offers in para. 1 words "al." 2, p. 3 to be deleted and finally added to 7s. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 635.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u172	We are voting, fellow Members, Section III, with Articles 624 to 635 on the Commission report, together with the names. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u173	"Eighth" - Administrative Punitive Provisions. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Part Eight. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Articles 636, 637 and 638. Article 639 supposed by the National Representative Delyan Dobrev, made in accordance with Article 639. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: "Article 639 is amended as follows: supplier liability for non-compulsory insurance Art. 639. (1) Person under art. 484 para. 1, t. 1 which has failed to fulfil its obligation to enter into compulsory insurance insurance for motorists, it is necessary to: 1. fine of 400 lv. For a natural person; 2. penalty of 2000 BGN For a legal person or a sole trader. (2) In case of repeated infringement, the penalty under para. 1, t. 1 is 800 BGN, and by para. 1, t. BGN 4,000 (3) A person who is not the owner and drives a motor vehicle in relation to whose possession and use there is no contract for compulsory insurance............................................................................................... is punished by with a fine of 400 BGN............................................................................................................................................. (4) Where an automated technical vehicle or system has established the management of a motor vehicle for which there is no valid insurance contract for compulsory insurance of liability, the owners of the motor vehicle shall be subject to the fine or penalty under para. 1. (5) In case of repeated infringement, the penalty under para. 3 is 800 lv. (6) In case of repeated infringement, the penalty under para. 4 is 800 lv. for a natural person and 4000 BGN for a legal person or a sole trader. (7) The insurance company which has committed a breach of art. 463, a penalty from 5000 to 20 000 BGN is imposed, and in case of repeated infringement from 10 000 to 40 000 BGN. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 639: supplier liability for non-compulsory insurance Art. 639. (1) Person under art. 484 para. 1, t. 1 which has failed to fulfil its obligation to enter into compulsory insurance insurance for motorists, it is necessary to: 1. fine of 400 lv. For a natural person; 2. penalty of 2000 BGN - for a legal person or sole trader. (2) In case of repeated infringement, the penalty under para. 1, t. 1 is 800 BGN, and by para. 1, t. 2 - 4000 leva. (3) A person who is not the owner and drives a motor vehicle in relation to whose possession and use there is no contract for compulsory insurance............................................................................................... is punished by with a fine of 400 BGN.............................................................................................................................................• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (4) Where the management of a motor vehicle is established with an automated technical vehicle or system for which there is no valid insurance contract for compulsory insurance, the owner of the motor vehicle shall be subject to the fine or penalty under para. 1. (5) In case of repeated infringement, the penalty under para. 3 is 800 lv. (6) In case of repeated infringement, the penalty under para. 4 is 800 lv. for a natural person and 4000 BGN for a legal person or a sole trader. (7) The insurance company which has committed a breach of art. 463, a penalty is imposed from 5000 to 20 000 BGN, and in case of a repeated infringement from 10 000 to 40 000 BGN. Art. 1 (1) (a) Art. 640 to Art. 640 646 including the Commission supports the importer's texts. A proposal for a new member of the MPs Saveklieva, Georgieva and Popova is created a new art. 647. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 647: The leaser's liability for non-compliance with the requirements regarding leasing property insurance Art. 647. (1) A lessor who fails to fulfil his obligation under art. 385, para. 1 or 2, a penalty of 5000 to 10 000 BGN is imposed. (2) In case of repeated infringement, the penalty under para. 1 is from 10 000 to 20 000 BGN Under art. 647 has a proposal from the MP Delyan Dobrev, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following wording: art. Article 647, which becomes Article 647. 648: "Procession for the imposition of administrative punishment" Art. 648. (1) The acts establishing administrative infringement shall be drawn up by officials authorised by the Vice-President and, in the cases referred to in art. 639, para. Art. 1-3 and 5 and art. 640 from the officials of the control services under the Road Traffic Act. (2) The Penal Order shall be issued by the Vice-President and for the violations of art. 639, para. Art. 1-3 and 5 and art. The Director of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in whose area the infringement has been detected or by an official authorised by him. (3) Where an automated technical vehicle or system has been established and the management of a motor vehicle for which there is no insurance contract in force for compulsory insurance is entered into and the liability of the motorists, an electronic ticket shall be issued in the absence of a control body and of an intruder under the conditions and in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Road Traffic Act. The electronic ticket shall be sent to the owner of the motor vehicle with a registered letter with a return receipt. The owner shall be obliged, within 14 days of receipt, to pay the fine or penalty under art. 639, para. 4 and 6. Article 189, para. 5 of the Road Traffic Act does not apply. (4) The establishment of infringements, the issuance, appeal and execution of criminal ordinances shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u174	Statements? Come in for a speech, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u175	Thank you, Madam President. I want to make an editorial proposal in art. 639, para. 1, t. 1, where the number of the number of the "400" can be read as the number of "250". What's the motive? I see Mr. Stanislav Ivanov is looking at me. Dear Mr. Ivanov, you may recall that you and I made a suggestion that people who illegally stop their cars in green areas, parks, on sidewalks, should be sanctioned with 200 BGN. You remember, I guess, and we insisted, even the hall was united. At one point, however, this fair penalty, which has already been intentionally violated, has been rejected from everywhere. One such violation remained within 50 BGN. Colleagues, we want with the proposal in art. 639 to punish people with a fine of 400 BGN that they have not committed insurance. I'll try to make a point so you understand. I'll give you an example. One person can insure their car with several different insurance policies. One of these policies can be insurance "Autocasco', can be a liability, can be a third type of policy. However, if an insurance event occurs, the person will not receive compensation from the three policies, even though he paid them in cash. He will receive compensation from only one policy, and note that he must explicitly declare from which policy the compensation for this insurance risk is to be received. Here's an injustice. A lot of people think that by paying 400-500 leva. Insurance - Autocasco - they believe that they are insured for all insurance risks and events. Given the standard of living in Bulgaria, given that most of the drivers are, however much I do not want to say it, are people who are retired who receive much less than what if they have failed to pay for it, they will be able to pay for it. I think that the fair fine for individuals for first offense is 250 BGN and for second infringement to remain the amount that is envisaged.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u176	Last 200 or 250 leva.? First you said 200 leva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u177	Two hundred and fifty leva. I was mistaken if I said £200. I hope you will support this proposal. The aim is to stimulate people to pursue insurance................................................................................................ If he makes the breach a second time, let him be sanctioned in the strictest possible manner as provided for in the Law. I hope you'll support me. I think that's fair.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u178	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's editorial proposal in art. 639, para. 1, t. 1 instead of a fine 400 leva. for a natural person, read a fine of 250 BGN. in the case of a natural person. Please vote. They voted 86 MPs: 54, against 12, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. [[The necessary quorum is 65.]] It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u179	Thank you, Madam President. Perhaps many of my colleagues did not understand that this proposal is being supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u180	They understand, Mr. Bayraktarov, but they have reservations about him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u181	Some didn't get a vote. I'm asking you to reconsider this proposal. Again, the second penalty is more important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u182	It's a re-vote. Vote 84 MPs: 65 against 7, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. We are voting Part Eight on the Commission's report. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u183	"Additional provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1 and shall propose to the Commission. 31 words ................................................................................................. 37, para. For the purposes of this Annex, the following definitions shall apply: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining I'm sorry, I'm sorry, The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... (1) Part Two shall not apply until the dates laid down in para. 2 for an insurance undertaking, respectively a reinsurance undertaking which has suspended the conclusion of new insurance or reinsurance contracts before 1 January 2016 and only administers its existing portfolio, provided that: 1. the insurer, respectively, has notified the Commission that it will cease operations before 1 January 2019; or 2. to the insurer, respectively the re-insurgency shall apply restructuring measures and Quaestors have been appointed. (2) Part two shall apply: 1. from 1 January 2019 or before that date for an insurance or reinsurance undertaking under para. 1, t. 1 where the Vice-President considers that progress towards the completion of the existing activity of the person is not satisfactory; 2. from 1 January 2021 or before that date for an insurance or reinsurance undertaking under para 1, item 2. 2 when the Vice-President considers that progress towards the completion of the existing activity of the person is not satisfactory. (3) Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply if the following conditions are met at the same time: 1. the insurance or reinsurance undertaking, respectively, is not part of a group or, if it is, all insurance and reinsurance undertakings, which are part of the group, shall suspend the conclusion of new insurance or reinsurance contracts; 2. the insurer shall, respectively, submit to the Commission an annual report on the progress made on the completion of its activities; 3. the insurer, respectively the insurer, has notified the Commission that it wants to apply transitional measures under para. 1. (4) In the cases under para. 2 The Vice-President shall, by decision, determine the date from which the requirements of Part Two apply to the insurer, respectively the re-insurer. (5) Regardless of para. 1 and 2 the insurance company under para. 1 or 2, respectively, the insurer may carry out its business in accordance with Part Two. (6) The Commission shall draw up a list of insurance and reinsurance undertakings benefiting from the transitional measures under para. 1 and make it available to the supervisory authorities of the other Member States. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... (1) Each insurer, respectively a re-insurer, shall provide the annual information under art. 126, para. 1, t. 2 within the time limits as follows: 1. the information concerning the financial year 2015 by 31 March at the latest after the end of the financial year; 2. the information relating to the financial year 2016 at the latest 20 weeks after the end of the financial year; 3. the information concerning the financial year 2017 at the latest 18 weeks after the end of the financial year; 4. information on the financial year 2018 "No later than 16 weeks after the end of the financial year'; 5. the information concerning the financial year 2019 and each subsequent year within the time limits laid down in Regulation 2015/35. (2) Within the time limits laid down in para. 1 each insurance, reinsurance and reinsurance undertaking shall also disclose its solvency and financial situation report. (3) Each insurer, respectively a re-insurer, shall provide the quarterly information under art. 126, para. 1, t. 3 within the time limits as follows: 1. the information concerning the financial year 2016 at the latest 8 weeks after the end of the quarter; 2. the information concerning the financial year 2017 at the latest 7 weeks after the end of the quarter; 3. the information concerning the financial year 2018 at the latest 6 weeks after the end of the quarter; 4. the information concerning the financial year 2019 and in the future (4) Alinei 1-3 shall apply respectively to the periodic information to be provided by an insurance or reinsurance undertaking, insurance holding company or mixed insurance holding company, head of group, and to the solvency and financial situation report of the group, each of the periods under para. 1-3 is extended by 6 weeks. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u184	I shall put to the vote the "Additional provisions" division together with the paragraphs 1 to 7 including the "Transitional and Final Provisions" division by paragraphs 8 to 11 including the Commission report. Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u185	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12: ................................................................................... (1) Insurance, respectively reinsurance undertaking, may, after prior approval by the Vice-President, apply a transitional adjustment to the relevant risk-free interest rate term structure in respect of qualifying insurance and reinsurance obligations. (2) For each currency the correction shall be calculated as part of the difference between: 1. the interest rate as determined by the insurer, respectively the re-insurer, in accordance with art. 13, para. 10 of Ordinance No 27 of 29.03.2006 on the order and methodology for the formation of technical provisions by insurers and by re-insurers (promise, SG, p...). 2. the effective annual interest rate calculated as one discount rate which, when applied to the cash flows of the portfolio of eligible insurance and reinsurance obligations, gives a value equal to the value of the best estimate of the portfolio of eligible insurance and reinsurance obligations, where the value of the money over time is taken into account using the relevant risk-free interest rate term structure under art. 154, para. 2. (3) The part referred to in para. 2, decreases linearly at the end of each year from 100 per cent in the year from 1 January 2016 to zero per cent on 1 January 2032. (4) Where the insurer, the re-insurer, respectively, applies the volatility adjustment under art. 158, the relevant term structure of the interest rate under para. 2, p. 2 is the adjusted relevant fixed-term structure of the interest rate under art. 158. (5) Eligible insurance and reinsurance obligations shall cover only insurance or reinsurance obligations which meet the following requirements: 1. the contracts giving rise to insurance and reinsurance obligations have been concluded before 1 January 2016, with the exception of the renewal of contracts on or after that date; 2. Until 31 December 2015, the technical provisions for insurance and reinsurance obligations were determined in accordance with Regulation No 27 of 29. 03. 2006 for the line and methodology for the formation of technical provisions by insurers and re-insurers as of 31 December 2015; 3. Article 156 shall not apply to insurance and reinsurance obligations. (6) Insurance, respectively reinsurance undertaking applying para. 1: 1. does not include eligible insurance and reinsurance obligations in the calculation of the volatility adjustment under Art. 1. 158; 2. does not apply § 13; 3. make public as part of the report on its solvency and financial position under art. 129 that it applies the transitional term structure of the matching rate and the quantitative measurement of the impact of not applying the current transitional measure on its financial situation. (7) The equalisation correction under art. 156 shall not apply to an insurance or reinsurance undertaking applying the transitional measures under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... (1) Insurance, respectively reinsurance undertaking applying the transitional measures under § 12 and 13 shall carry out an assessment of compliance with the own funds requirements under art. 90, para. 2, p. 2. (2) An insurance undertaking, respectively a reinsurance undertaking applying the transitional measures under § 12 and 13 shall notify the Vice-President without delay after finding that it would not comply with the Solvency Capital Requirement without applying those transitional measures. The Commission, on a proposal from the Vice-President, shall require the insurance or reinsurance undertaking concerned to take the necessary measures to ensure compliance with the Solvency Capital Requirement at the end of the transitional period. (3) Within two months of the establishment of non-compliance with the Solvency Capital Requirement without the application of those transitional measures, the insurance or reinsurance undertaking concerned shall submit to the Commission a gradual implementation plan setting out the planned measures to ensure the level of eligible own funds to cover the Solvency Capital Requirement or to reduce its risk profile to ensure compliance with the Solvency Capital Requirement at the end of the transitional period. The insurance or reinsurance undertaking may update the phase-in plan during the transitional period. (4) The insurance or reinsurance undertaking shall submit an annual report to the committee indicating the measures taken and progress made to ensure compliance with the capital requirement at the end of the transitional period. The Commission, on a proposal from the Vice-President, shall revoke the approval of the application of the transitional measure where that progress report shows that compliance with the Solvency Capital Requirement at the end of the transitional period is unrealistic. (5) The Commission, on a proposal from the Vice-President, may, by a reasoned decision, in exceptional circumstances, order the addition of capital to an insurer, respectively, applying the transitional measures under § 12 and 13, where it considers that its risk profile deviates significantly from the assumptions underlying those transitional measures. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15. Paragraph 16 supposed by the MPs Saveklieva, Georgieva and Popova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 16: ......... 16........................................... The regulation under art. 491 para. 5 shall be adopted within one year of the entry into force of this Code. For the preparation of the uniform requirements for the adjustment of the insurance premium, the Guarantee Fund shall hire a consultant with international experience in risk and actuarial assessment. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 17 and proposes in para. 2 after the words..118. to be Paragraphs 18 to 28 of the Commission shall support them on the texts of the importer. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... The regulatory acts on the application of the repealed Code of Insurance and General Administrative Acts issued on the basis of the repealed Code of Insurance shall remain effective insofar as they do not conflict with that Code. Paragraph 30 to § 35 inclusive, the Commission shall support the texts of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u186	I shall put to the vote paragraphs 12 to 35 on the Commission report. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 12 to 35 including have been adopted on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u187	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. In the Law on Deposit Guarantee in Banks (prom., SG No. (See Annex I) art. 11, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: "1." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 8 words.............................................................................. The The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37. Paragraph 38 "A proposal from the National Representative Delyan Dobrev, made according to the order art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... In the Law on Road Traffic (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 125a, para. 1 words.............................................................................. The Commission 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 143 is created. 10: (10) The registration of road vehicles notified by the Guarantee Fund under art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 11 of the Insurance Code and the owner of the road vehicle shall be notified. Officially terminated registration of a road vehicle shall be refunded at the request of the owner and after presentation of a valid insurance.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 179, para. 5 words................................................................................. 261, para. the following point is inserted after point (c)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u188	Statements? Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u189	Madam President, honourable Members! In § 38, we have introduced an official suspension of the registration of road vehicles following notification from the Guarantee Fund. However, the process of re-certification of the road vehicle requires that the intruder, first of all, make an insurance policy of his/her liability, then go and submit his/her registration to the DMV and only then be restored to his/her registration of the road vehicle. Therefore, the editorial that we are proposing in sentence two, in order to save this inconvenience to the insured, once it can be stopped by official means, it is evident that it can also recover. So my proposal is: editing a sentence second after the words.. is recovered..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In other words, the new version of the sentence second becomes as follows: The official cessation of registration of a road vehicle is refunded either at the request of the owner and after the conclusion of a valid insurance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u190	And who's going to see to it that the conditions are met so that there's an official recovery?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u191	The guarantee fund shall notify again. In the case of termination of service, before the official insurance is terminated, we have this in the main texts of the Code, the Guarantee Fund shall inform the DMV of which vehicles are lacking insurance. In the same order, civil responsibilities may also be notified so that the registration of the road vehicle can be formally restored.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u192	But this after notification from the Guarantee Fund. Otherwise, the citizen comes and says: "I want you to repay me personally and there is no notification from the guarantee fund. That's how I accepted your editing?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u193	Yes, but the notification by the Guarantee Fund in the case of termination of registration is written in the main texts of the Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u194	What about recovery? In the event of a dispute between a citizen and the person who terminated the registration, where is the Guarantee Fund, the second sentence does not become clear to me?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u195	After the conclusion of each insurance, the information in real time shall be submitted to the Guarantee Fund. So the certification of the conclusion of the insurance is information that the Guarantee Fund has.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u196	If you want a small opportunity to look at the text, vote the others, and then we'll go back to...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u197	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u198	We'll come back later on this article and then I'll give you the floor. [[National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov wants the floor.]] This one? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u199	Such chaos will happen with this t. 2, para. 10, that... Thank you, Madam President. I take the floor for speech and for an editorial proposal, namely in § 38 the proposal in point. 2, para. 10 drop out, because if this thing is introduced, it will create a great chaos. People who worked in the Ministry of Interior system know that there is a special regulation for registration of motor vehicles. Under this regulation first, to start paying local tax, the basis is namely registration. Here the question arises: if official registration on the basis of the Insurance Code is terminated, I ask: citizens and relevant local taxes and fees to municipalities will be notified in order to terminate the payment of a local vehicle tax? I'm asking, is this thing done? It's not done. The text is extremely controversial. It'll create great chaos. It'll create great chaos. Therefore, I propose that it be dismissed, as the regulation itself provides for all the mechanisms for suspending and restoring the registration of a road vehicle. So, colleagues, you can see that at the moment the colleague is writing a leg, this proposal is not thought out. It's best to drop it, because it doesn't solve that question in any way. Once again, we will create a great chaos. By the way, let me tell you, and at the moment under the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, the so-called DMV services are required to inform the official authorities of termination of registration in the respective municipalities. And this is a force since 1 May 2015. Did you know that this thing is not happening at this time? This thing, and at this point we're already going into 2016, it's not happening! If we make an additional effort through the insurance companies to make it happen, make yourself aware of the chaos we'll create! People will no longer know who is on a registered road vehicle and who is not. Because, when registration is stopped, the person is not obliged, for example, to buy a winemaker, his road vehicle is practically stopped by traffic, should be informed where to house this road vehicle under this regulation. In fact, a few years ago there was a huge chaos which, at the beginning of this National Assembly, we were able to clear it largely with the changes in the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. Now if we accept this thing, we're going to go back to the chaos that still exists anyway. Therefore, Madam President, I am making an editorial proposal in § 38 t. 2 drop out, as the text has not been refined and we will create much more serious problems for citizens and relevant institutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u200	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Mr. Dobrev, please finalize the editing of...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u201	If I may make a statement before then, Madam President, on what Mr. Bajraktarov said he spoke about the main text and not about the editing that I proposed. This basic text is due to the fact that there are hundreds of thousands of cars registered in Bulgaria, which are managed in Romania and Italy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u202	This is your cue to Mr. Bayraktarov's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u203	Okay, line. These cars do not have insurance and when they cause disaster in these countries, the Guarantee Fund has to pay. That's why the official deletion is required. This question was discussed in detail during the Commission, which you could have attended, Mr. Bayraktarov. The proposal comes from the Ministry of Interior and the whole Commission united around the fact that it supports the text. So this isn't about any fuck-up, any rewriting. It is only a question of whether the registrations which have been suspended in service have the possibility, after notification by the Guarantee Fund, of being re-registered. I mean, we're doing this in favor of these intruders not giving them the inconvenience of going to the DMV...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u204	Give the final editing and then Mr. Bayraktarov will understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u205	Go to the DMV and present the insurance. The final version, which is agreed with the jurists, sentence two: the official terminated registration of a road vehicle is refunded either by service or at the request of the owner and after the presentation of a valid insurance........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u206	A hole, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u207	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague Dobrev, first of all, the Guarantee Fund cannot in any way be charged to pay compensation for persons who do not have a civil... [[Noise and lines from GERB: How was it?]] Wait, don't call from... this! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u208	Well, please now, Mr. Bayraktarov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u209	Well, let me speak!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u210	Colleagues, please keep your patience! We're in the finals! Give Mr. Bayraktarov a chance to finish his thought!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u211	Forty seconds on top...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u212	Please, I'll extend your time...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u213	What are you asking me?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u214	But I'm asking you not to react like that!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u215	You react accordingly, because I'm tired of being replicated all the time! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] To explain, so you know. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Where a person has not entered into an insurance policy and becomes a participant in an accident, first, his responsibility is personal, including That's the order. That's the order! You can take it out and check it out if you don't understand these things. When you don't have insurance, you first don't appear in the Guarantee Fund database, that means the Guarantee Fund can't ask for your official claim from registration for the simple reason that if you never registered this car, you can't remove the registration. Second of all, I've started explaining to you by the regulation that you clearly don't know.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u216	Don't, Mr. Bayraktarov, because you mix administrative, criminal and financial responsibility! You're mixing them in three sentences you said.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u217	I don't mix them, I don't mix them, because I say again: the text is not clear. There is a regulation concerning the registration and registration of road vehicles. Colleague Dobrev, if you change only the address registration of the road vehicle, if each time you change it, you can no longer deregistered it. I'll give you a banal example of this regulation: when you change the registration, you change the car control coupon, registration slip. Then I ask you: which car did you stop from registering? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] That only happens for ten minutes under this regulation. Your text hasn't been cleared. Moreover: it is not true that the Guarantee Fund pays such amounts for people who have made a traffic accident somewhere in Europe and have not made insurance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u218	Pay up, pay up!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u219	The responsibility is personal. There is no such text as to oblige the Guarantee Fund. If you point out the text, I'll say I agree. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] There's nothing to ask. Give me the law and directives that concern insurance. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u220	I ask for assistance from the Financial Supervision Commission experts. Mrs. Agane, you have the floor to resolve this complicated debate between the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u221	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, I would like to make it clear that the Guarantee Fund was created precisely with an obligation to pay compensation to uninsured drivers. This is not just our national judgment, it is introduced in the implementation of the European directives. There is a common framework in the European Union that regulates insurance for motorists. It is binding throughout Europe and is regulated in the same way in all Member States, as it directly affects the freedom of movement of citizens of the European Union. For this reason, I would like to say that there can be no comment or any comments on what the Guarantee Fund pays compensation for. It was designed to cover the damage caused in road accidents by uninsured cars. You have now assessed and reduced the fine for uninsured cars. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I would like to say that this is a very important function in the protection of the victims to have insurance of the car drivers. The lack of such does serious damage to the whole society, not only to the specific injured persons.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u222	That is, without suggestions between first and second readings. Emotionally, proposals are being made and supported in this House. This will result in our vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u223	I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the text you are now discussing and proposed by the Committee on Economic Policy was produced by a working group involving the Ministry of Interior on their proposal. It is discussed in connection with the implementation of the legislation of the Ministry of Interior. It is extremely important in relation to the widely established practice, which Mr. Dobrev pointed out, cars with Bulgarian registration to be bought by foreign nationals, mainly Romanian and Italian, not to change the registration The damage paid each year for such traffic accidents is tens of millions of leva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u224	That's clear. Please guide the public representation according to Mr. Dobrev's editorial proposals in the second sentence of para. 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u225	I propose that the text be like this: The official terminated registration of a road vehicle shall be refunded for service in the case of data provided by the Guarantee Fund in accordance with art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 6 or at the request of the owner after presentation of a valid insurance........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u226	Do you accept the text as correct, Mr. Dobrev?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u228	There are two hypotheses. Officially, when forwarding the specific notification by the Guarantee Fund and at the request of the owner under the terms of this text. That's what I'm going to put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u229	I skipped the words: "Supported data for insurance concluded in accordance with art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u230	Of course, that's what the data is for, not something else. Any other MPs for speeches? I won't. The debate is closed. First, I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal in § 38, t. 2, para. 10 The proposal for the creation of a new para. 10 to be rejected. Vote 82 MPs: 5 against 52, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the editorial proposal of Mr. Delyan Dobrev in his final version proposed to the MPs by Mrs. Ralitsa Agine. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we are now voting on paragraphs 36, 37 and 38 in their new version, which has just been adopted in our decision, on the Commission's report. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u231	The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for § 39 to § 41 inclusive. Under § 42 "A proposal from the National Representative Delyan Dobrev, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 42: .............................................................................. The Health Insurance Act (promote, SG...) makes the following amendments: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 82, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 222-a-d. is replaced by "Chapter 40," Section IV-d. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 101, t. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43. According to § 44 there is a proposal from the MPs Saveklieva, Georgieva and Popova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 44: ..................................................... In the Financial Supervision Commission Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2 t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." the activities of the insurers under the Insurance Code and the Health Insurance Act, the activities of the insurers, insurance brokers and insurance agents under the Insurance and Occupational Code of the Guarantee Fund under art. 519 of the Insurance Code; 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 3 words.............................................................................. 16s and 16s shall be replaced by "Chapter 6s'; (b) c. 6 words................................................................................. 13, 22 and 26 80, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. Art. 82, Art. 93, para. Art. 4 and art. 95, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1): (c) c. 13 words. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 to 3. Article 18, para. 2 is amended as follows: For the purposes of supervision carried out, the Commission, the alternate vice-president respectively, may appoint an external auditor or external independent experts to carry out an assessment of the supervised entity's assets or liabilities and require the supervised entity to reflect the results of the assessment in the financial statements. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. 1 t. 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. issue of: (a) licenses to extend the scope of the licence under art. 32 of the Insurance Code; (b) Authorisations for voluntary change of the status of insurance under art. 36 of the Insurance Code; (c) approval of a full or partial internal model, as well as substantial changes to an approved internal model or to the policy of changing the internal model of an insurance or reinsurance undertaking, as well as approval of an internal model of a group where the Commission is a group supervisor. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) A new item shall be created. 10: ..10. specific purpose schemes for alternative transfer of own funds risk; b) Previous t. 10 " 15" becomes 11 " 16" respectively. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45. Under § 46 there is a proposal from the MPs Saveklieva, Georgieva and Popova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 46: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Law on the Public Offering of Securities (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 77d, para. 2, p. 12 words................................................................................. The Commission shall be 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 85, para. 5 the words "7 days' shall be replaced by "one working day'. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 86. 3 is amended as If the base prospectus and additions thereto do not include information on the final terms of the offer, the issuer, offeror or person requesting admission of securities to trading on a regulated market shall make that information available to the public under art. 92a, para. 5 shall submit it to the Commission and shall be communicated by the Commission to the competent authorities of the host States at each individual offer as soon as possible and, if possible, no later than the starting date of the offer or admission of securities to trading on a regulated market. The Commission shall inform the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) of those final conditions. The final terms shall contain information regarding the securities document and shall not complement the base prospectus. In the cases referred to in the first sentence, Article 1 shall apply. 87a, para. 1 sentence first. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 47. Proposal from the MPs Saveklieva, Georgieva and Popova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new paragraphs 48 and 49: ............... 48............................................................... In the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 78g the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: Where, within an interoperable system, a system operator has provided collateral to another system operator, the rights of the system operator providing the collateral on the collateral provided may not be affected by rescue measures or termination procedures vis-à-vis the system operator to which the collateral is provided. 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it after the words "al." The following shall be added to the list: 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4. § 49. The contracts concluded until the entry into force of this Code for financial leasing under art. 385, para. 1 shall be aligned within 6 months of the entry into force of the Code. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 48, which shall become § 50: .................................................................................. (1) This Code shall enter into force from 1 January 2016, with the exception of art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 8 which shall enter into force from 1 July (2) By 1 July 2016, the exchange of data under art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 7 is carried out weekly as each first working day of the week: 1. The Ministry of Interior and the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration shall provide the information centre with the current data under art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 3 and 4; 2. The Information Centre shall provide the Ministry of Interior and the Executive Agency with the current data under art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 5... 7..................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u232	Statements? I won't. We are voting for paragraphs 39 to 50, including on the Commission's report. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u233	For the record, Madam President: the supported proposal under § 42 is the Parliamentary Representative Teodora Georgieva, not Delyan Dobrev's technical one. Annex No 1. The Commission supports the text of the Annex 1 importer and proposes that, in Section II, the word "the damage' be replaced by the damage. Annex 2 to § 21, para. 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-15.u234	Speeches on both apps? I won't. We are voting for Annex 1 with its name and Annex 2 on the Commission report. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The proposals were adopted unanimously and thus the Code of Insurance at second reading. Gratitude to Ms. Saveclieva, Ms. Karastoyanova and to all MPs who have fulfilled their duty as participants in the legislative institution. Tomorrow at 9:00. ..on a regular basis for a meeting. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
