ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] A few messages. By letter of 16 September 2015, MPs Willi Lilkov, Petar Slavov and Nastimir Ananiev from the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation bloc stated that on the basis of art. 82 of the Rules withdraw the bill of amendment and supplement to the Accounting Act submitted by them on 10 June 2015. In a letter from yesterday, also the People's Representative Prof. Ivan Stankov on the grounds of art. 82 of the Rules withdraw the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education on 4 March 2015. According to our weekly program as the first item for today's plenary day: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR SPECIAL REPRESENTATIVES. Importers: Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. There has been a report from the Commission on the control of the security services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. Mr. Lazarov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u2	Mrs. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Special Intelligence, No 554-01-150, submitted by Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs on 9 September 2015. At its meeting held on 10 September 2015, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Special Intelligence, No 554-01-150, submitted by Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Mr. Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Interior, Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the State Agency The bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Dimitar Lazarov. The proposed amendments and additions aim to specify the time limits for the application of special intelligence means and to fill some gaps in the legal framework. According to the Act in force, the period of application of special intelligence means is not differentiated. However, the separate hypotheses of the application of special intelligence means are different, which also requires differentiation within the time limits within which they may be applied. The amendments propose a significant reduction in the time limit for the implementation of specific intelligence means to objects to identify persons and increase the time limit for national security activities in cases of the prevention of serious criminal offences under Chapter One of the specific part of the Criminal Code. The national security protection activity, which relates to the prevention of serious intentional crimes against the Republic, requires competent authorities to have adequate means of countering, including through the application of special intelligence means for a longer period of time. The proposed changes also provide for a period for the preservation, and the terms and conditions for the destruction of the information necessary for the protection of national security, by the relevant structure of the SANS, the Military Information Service and the Minister of Defence and the National Intelligence Service. The rest of the amendments propose that parliamentary control be limited to the procedures for the authorisation, application and use of special intelligence and to the preservation and destruction of information obtained through them, and those in the Criminal Procedure Code arise from changes in the special intelligence arrangements. People's representatives Dimitar Lazarov, Dimitar Dubov, Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Atanas Atanasov took part in the discussion, as well as Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Mr. Dimitar Georgiev and Mr. Georgi Krastev, who expressed their support for the bill. Following the discussion, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence funds and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications with 15 votes..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u3	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Who's going to propose the bill on behalf of the importers? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! The report mentioned the need for this amendment to the Special Intelligence Means Act, which mainly concerns differentiation of the time limits for the implementation, use and authorisation of special intelligence means for the needs of national security. In the current provisions of the Law, this period was common, as well as for the period of application and use, and for storage, both for the investigation of criminal offences or other texts of the Penal Code, as well as for national security. We believe that, in view of the high degree of danger of crimes under Chapter 1 of the Criminal Code, namely terrorism, spying, harmfulness, and that a wide range of citizens or the state's public order is concerned in the event of a crime, and in view of the recent developments in the Middle East, in North Africa, this period, as is the practice in other European countries, should be extended. The authorisation to initially be for six months and possibly to be continued for another six months. I would like to draw particular attention here to the fact that the cases of the implementation of this hypothesis are very limited and they are only for the prevention of crimes under Chapter 1 of the Criminal Code. If, after all, it comes to committing a crime that can be preparation or experience, the time limits will go according to the general order of the Penal Code. There is no change in the authority that gives permission. We're consistent in this case. This authorisation shall be granted by a judge in the same order after reporting the materials. We know that in Europe, usually for national security needs, the authorities that give permission are outside the judiciary, but we are consistent with the interests of citizens. We have set a deadline for storing the information obtained from these special intelligence funds for 15 years, which is also slightly smaller than the deadline under the Classified Information Act. However, in view of the need to investigate, prevent such crimes, when interacting with partner services, we should not fall into the situation when after several years the information obtained from special intelligence means is destroyed, and it turns out that there is a need for the use of this information by the services in Bulgaria, whether in partner interactions with the other services. The other basic and characteristic that we are changing in the current provision the time limit for the establishment of persons, the time limit for the implementation of special intelligence funds was 60 days. In order to avoid abuse of this deadline, if it turns out that on the tenth day of the 15th day the person has been identified and continues the application of special intelligence means, we have shortened this period to 20 days, with the possibility that, after reporting the materials to the district judge concerned, this period will be extended again for no more than 60 days. This is also in view of the possibility of solving crimes related to the so-called, say, phone scammers. The bill was drawn up with the participation of representatives of the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Special Court, representatives of the SANS, representatives of the Ministry of Interior, representatives of the DATO, representatives of the Bureau of Special Intelligence Control at three meetings. It has been submitted to the Commission by a large part of the representatives of the various parliamentary parties. I think it should be supported because it is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u5	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. The debate is open. Come in for a statement, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The proposed amendments to the Special Intelligence Means Act introduce a precision of the deadlines for implementing the SRS and it can be said that they fill gaps and gaps in the legal framework. We, as a parliamentary group, will support these changes which lead to precision, but I will draw your attention to several aspects that need to be affected in this debate. When it comes to threats to national security, especially in today's reality, we need to be aware that the possibilities for applying political, diplomatic and propaganda measures to counter the assumption or detection of a real threat to national security are preceded by active action by the special services of the state. This certainly leads to the logic that a strong specialised counter-intelligence information service is needed to identify and neutralize processes threatening constitutionally established state order. Part of the debate is how much legislation responds adequately to the real threats to constitutional order. I argue that the amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act are not adequate enough compared to the possibility that, as it was, there is a strong counterintelligence service that can respond in a timely manner. I note that the activity of acquiring, generalising, analyzing and evaluating information on real and potential threats, by the way, and on countering crime, must be at a high professional level. As we are talking about the deadlines for special intelligence means, we need to make sure that all the capabilities of the services and the Ministry of Interior are used, and not just the implementation of special intelligence means. That is to say, we must be sure that there will be a timely countermeasure through the operational prevention and crossing of both crime and threats and the neutralization of their consequences. Then there are the politicians who are in the executive power and parliament. The second aspect of today's debate I would like to draw attention to and statistics show that for the first six months of 2015 in relation to the work of specialized services and the Ministry of Interior are increased refusals by the court to implement special intelligence funds. The specific numbers: in 1096 requests for the first six months the refusals are 131, which is more than 10%. For comparison, last year, with more than 1200 requests, the refusals are only 21. I quote Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova from parliamentary control. The main motives presented are lack of sufficient data on crimes under art. 321 of the Criminal Code against persons for whom requests for the SRS have already been initiated pre-trial proceedings, where an applicant can only be the prosecution, lack of evidence of intentional crime and insufficient arguments or incorrect discharge. When we refine and fill gaps in the legislation, we also need to pay attention to those who apply the Law to implement it, because the work of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and the services is also related to public approval. Public approval does not mean that the services and police should have any permission, does not mean that there should be prior written agreements with the representing citizens, local authorities and society, but means that the police should act in a way that convinces them that their actions are in public benefit, that they are of good intentions, that they are in compliance with the Law. Then we citizens will take these actions and give our consent to their implementation. The adoption of these changes should not be an opportunity for a precise request for special intelligence means and compliance with the Law, but must also be linked to the work of the specific applicants and those involved in the whole process when we are talking about threats of national security and the prevention of crimes. Our work will be done today. From now on is the work of the authorities that will benefit from the changes in the Law. It should be clear that when it comes to noisy actions, prevention or detection of crimes, the work of the Ministry of Interior and the services should not be tied to public and media pressure, which we have seen since yesterday that there is a noisy activity in Plovdiv district. We are yet to wait to see the prosecution's application, which is leading because it is about arresting officers from the Ministry of Interior system.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u7	Mr. Iankov, it seems to me that this is beyond the subject of a bill of discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u8	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u9	Are there any lines? I can't see. I give the floor of speech to the independent MP Velizar Enchev. [[Noisy conversations between the MPs Krasimir Yankov and Metodi Andreev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u10	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The bill amending and supplementing the Special Intelligence Means Act is undoubtedly a very good bill and hardly anyone would have reason to vote against it. But he's as good as philosophy. As a performance in it, there is a fundamental problem that basically corrupts it. I'll be specific. For information obtained from special intelligence means, as well as in art. 31 specify that it will be stored, therefore will be used by the National Intelligence Service and by the Military Information Service, but which by law work only outside the territory of the country, as they are for foreign and political intelligence agencies for other countries and not for the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. In addition, the National Intelligence Service Act clearly states...................................................................................... 5, if I am not mistaken that it works only on foreign countries and not on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, although such an opportunity is allowed in a subsequent article of the Law. Since these two services will store, I quote the exact word: the relevant specialized information, they will use it. Once they will use it, they will violate two laws. The National Intelligence Service Act and the Military Information Act, which, as I told you, command work only outside and outside the territory of the country. I am surprised that during the debates in the committees I do not participate in these committees, as I am excluded from all the committees.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. If you read the importers' report carefully, you will notice that this report speaks of protecting citizens' rights and freedoms against the unlawful use of special intelligence means. What more illegal use of special intelligence means, since this information collected by internal counter-intelligence for the noble purpose of, of course, fighting terrorism will be used by foreign policy intelligence agencies, which, for the third time I say, have no legal right to work in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. I am also surprised that Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov should reply with a reply, has not reacted to this fact, and he is one of the biggest critics of creepy State Security. This Law is currently a revival of the sinister State Security and I think that Mr. Lazarov as an importer and chief of this Commission should explain why there is this fundamental contradiction. I am opposed to both foreign policy intelligence using and storing this information in any way. Finally, I am asking a very delicate question to be answered by the chiefs of the NRS and the NRS, for which they should be invited here. I suggest that they be invited to the Chamber today to answer not only this but also further questions. My question to them is specialized. Until 1996 I worked at the National Intelligence Service and I know very well that until 1996 the NRS had its own listening system on the territory of Bulgaria. I ask the current head of the NRS: is there such a system for eavesdropping outside the law by the National Intelligence Service? And, which is even more disturbing, let the esteemed new head of the service "Military information" or so-called "Military intelligence" Mr. Yordan Bakalov to answer: does he currently have his own special intelligence system, including total wiretapping of phone calls, mobile phones and Bulgarian citizens? These are my questions to you and I hope that in the lines of the affected persons I will receive at least some of the information that affects hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens who can become victims of the Law which you have prepared for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u11	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Is there anyone who wants a line? I won't. Is there anyone else who would like to speak on this bill? I won't. We're closing the debate. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Special Intelligence, No 554-01-150, submitted by Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. They voted 125 MPs: 121, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Mr. Lazarov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of our Rules of Procedure, I ask you to put to the vote because there were no proposals in the speeches for amendment and supplement to the Bill............................................................................................... to vote against...............................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u13	Is there a reverse opinion? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov to be put to the vote at second reading The Bill for amendment and supplement of the Special Intelligence Means Act. Vote 126 MPs: 122, against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mr. Lazarov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u14	This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. No proposals have been received under the name of the Law. No proposals have been received under paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 by importer. Dear Mr President, in § 10, a technical error has been made. 2 of § 10, art. 175 in the Penal Code in para. 4 t. 2 is recorded for no more than six months total cases under para. 3, p. There is no such point, it should be no point. 2. It's a technical mistake. I'm saying this for the record, to keep in mind that's t. 2 and not t. 3. There are no other proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u15	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. I put to the vote at second reading Draft Law amending and supplementing the Special Intelligence Act, No 554-01-150, of 9 September 2015, submitted by the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. We are voting on the Anblok so-read Bill along with the technical amendment made by Mr. Lazarov. They voted 126 MPs: for 123, against 3, no abstentions. The proposal is adopted with this and the Law at second reading. Negative vote, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable representatives of the Bulgarian media, I hope you will reflect what happened just now in the plenary room of the National Assembly. Despite mentioning specific names of our respected personalities: Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Mr. Metodi Andreev...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u17	Mr. Enchev, you're talking...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u18	I'm explaining my negative vote, don't interrupt me, please. There wasn't a single line in terms of the words I said, and I said too many harsh words about the content of this Law. The two services continue to have their own listening systems at the moment, and most importantly, in this Law, honourable Members, the rule is that foreign policy intelligence should store and use information acquired on the territory of the country. By law, they are not entitled to work on the territory of the country, therefore they are in a colony with already adopted or expected laws for the National Intelligence Service and for the Military Information Service. The lack of your reaction, my fellow gentlemen ruling the quadruple coalition, fully confirms the right of my words and, unfortunately, the right of my concerns. All of you who have not reacted and have not voted against this Law, as I have said, as philosophy is very good and must be accepted, means that you support the new practices you have been speaking against for 25 years and are essentially resurrecting the new in your view the sinister State security by law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u19	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. According to the approved programme, item two on today's agenda is: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE CRITICAL CODEX, a joint project drawn up on the basis of the laws adopted in the first vote with importers Mr. Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs; the Council of Ministers; Ms. Tsetska Tsacheva and a group of MPs; Petar Slavov, Methodie Andreev and a group of MPs. Who will report the bill of amendment at the second reading of the Penal Code? Mr. Daniel Kirilov, the Chairman of the Legal Commission, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, before presenting the report for second reading, please, on the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Petko Petkov to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u21	I put to the vote the proposal for admission to the Chamber of Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Petko Petkov. Vote 99 MPs: 96 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors, Deputy Minister Petkov. Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Report on General Law No 553-03-81/02.07.2015 of the laws adopted on 25.06.2015 on the first vote amending and supplementing the Penal Code: No 454-01-26, submitted by Lutvi Ahmed Mestan and a group of MPs on 27.10.2014; No 402-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 09.12.2014; No 454-01-71, submitted by Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska and a group of MPs on 19.12.2014; No 554-01-1, submitted by Peter Vladislavov Slavov on 05.01.2015; No 502-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 07.04.2015; No 554-01-87, submitted by Methodi Borisov and a group of local representatives on 08.05.2015, prepared on the basis of the basis of the document. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Criminal Code is amended and supplemented by the Criminal Code. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u23	I put to the vote the name of the Law and § 1. Voted 103 MPs: 100, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u24	Proposal of the National Representative Philip Popov and a group of MPs: ???????? 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 79, para. 2, p. 2The Criminal Code shall be placed at a point and a comma and the text shall be deleted to the end. 2. In the new al. 3 of art. 79 and the expression "made for political reasons by persons associated with the communist regime after 9 September 1944, including those related to the so-called "renaissance process" and the comma before it, are dropped. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Petar Slavov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the The following shall not be excluded by limitation of criminal prosecution and the execution of the penalty in respect of: 1. crimes against peace and humanity; 2. serious crimes under Chapter Two, Section I, Section II, Section IV and Section V; Chapter Three, Section I, Section II and Section III; Chapter 11a, Section III of the special part of the Penal Code carried out between 09.09.1944 and 10.11.1989 by members of the leading bodies of the Bulgarian Communist Party and by third parties entrusted with certain official or party functions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u25	Would anyone like to take an attitude? Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This illogical, nothing to do with the right proposal, first of all, turns upside down the whole legal doctrine and legal logic, according to which laws have action in the future and have no retroactive effect. The norms of the Penal Code in its particular part have the opposite effect only in cases more favourable to the children and this can happen only before the verdict is given. According to the Penal Code and our Constitution, the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria cannot be imposed more severe punishment than what was envisaged during its execution. And there is no crime in that act which was not declared by the Law of such at the time of its execution. But if we get out of legal logic and go to the political manage because this proposal is absolutely political, I repeat, nothing to do with legal logic, why stop after forty-four? And in the period of our new history? One of the darkest 1941-1944? What's going on? Why should we limit ourselves in this period? Dear MPs, it is easy to turn helpfully to history because history remembers because history is an objective tool for national rather than party consciousness. Such an unconstitutional bill cannot and should not be adopted by the Bulgarian National Assembly. The proposed Bill describes members of executive positions. Do you know how many executives there were? I was seven years old in 1989. But here by these ex-boyfriends, I'll say it...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u27	Your comrades.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u28	No, not your comrades. There are many people who have held such leadership positions in the party and are now present here in the ruling majority. Their memory is personal, historical, even party, apparently too short. At the next place,... as well as by third parties entrusted with certain functions or party functions........................................................................................................................................................ Who are these third parties? Can someone name them? What is the quality of the third person? You know that by 1989, the Bulgarian Communist Party had one million members - do all these third parties fall under the Criminal Code? [[(Noise and lines from BSP LB. "Which committed a crime..."]] That's right, who committed a crime. For what reason? How will committing a crime be proven? Was it a crime to hold a leading party position back then, at this time there were also certain positions or party functionaries. What jobs? [[Noise and lines.]] It can also be a janitor, it can also be a janitor, it can be said, rather than a party. Certain positions! The whole logic and attempt of the ruling majority to impose such texts in a legal society, in a democratic state, in a Member State of the European Union, as we claim to be, as we fight in the chest until we are blue, is absolutely, nothing to do with legal logic, with the rule of law, with political morality, at all with the development of Bulgaria as a modern state. The extraction of such ghosts pre-electionly does not honor those who do, because it only speaks of the lack of an adequate political culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u29	Thank you, Mr. Popov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Popov, the text is a result of serious and long-term efforts by a large number of law experts both to the Commission and outside the Commission. This text was reached as a result of, you know, a long way to go, which we have also walked within the framework of the previous National Assembly. This text will grant the multiannual efforts, demands and expectations of hundreds of thousands of people who are still alive and who suffered the crimes of the communist regime during its 45-year existence. The text does not aim yet to open, to form new cases, this text does not aim to hunt witches. He aims to finally punish those individuals who are the direct perpetrators of crime, the direct instigators of the ugliest crimes of the communist regime, one of which is the revival process. Not a million members of the BCP are responsible for the revival process. The revival process is designed and implemented by a limited range of persons empowered, with party and state powers then supposed members of the Politburo, the first secretaries of the district committees of the BCP, senior officials of the State Security, senior officials of the prisons and so on. These are individuals who have committed specific crimes. Against some of them there have already been pre-trial proceedings. [[The President said that time had run out.]] Unfortunately, they didn't end. We want to allow these pre-trial proceedings to be completed and the court to rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u31	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u32	Dear Mr. Kazak, you are a serious lawyer, and I cannot believe that this is how you reflect this proposal and this issue. I admit that this text was really ugly, very clumsy, and however we powder it, it remains the same. And who are these experts?! Let's stand with their faces, their names, let's see these experts. However, they are ashamed, they are ashamed, because they also know that the text, from a legal point of view, from a legal point of view, is an absurd state of things that are trying to be introduced into the Penal Code. Colleague Kazak, should this logic also be held responsible for the current Prime Minister who was in Kaolinovo? Are we gonna take responsibility for him?! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u33	To speak, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u34	Mrs. Chairman! Dear colleagues, to tell you the truth, I am surprised by what I hear from the left. I expected to hear more serious legal arguments: why do they not accept this provision rather than ideologically burdened, I would say, idle speaking. [[BSP LB.]] The interesting thing here is that colleagues on the left have obviously not looked at the Law on Laws lately, or have not looked at it recently, to see that a legal standard is allowed to be adopted that has retroactive effect by exception. And in this case, when we are talking about serious crimes, which I stress, at the time they were committed were crimes, obviously it is a serious case and that they have not been sanctioned, given the political umbrella that had the leading activists of the Bulgarian Communist Party, it is clearly not acceptable to society. I don't think it's acceptable for any normal citizen to go unpunished. I also can't understand what was meant from the left, but what I sensed was that, in a way, those who were members of the Bulgarian Communist Party, if they committed a crime, they don't need to be prosecuted. Is that what you're telling me is that this is a kind of indulgence for people who committed crimes during this period if they were leading activists of the Bulgarian Communist Party?! This is ridiculous, colleagues, and it's not serious. I call on you to take a responsible position. We are talking about extremely serious crimes, crimes that are related to what we call "genocide" in modern society. Because how else can the sending of whole groups of people into camps, their abuse, their forced settlement and their killing be determined without trial and sentence? [[bSP LB loud noise and lines]] , including in a way that whole groups of compact populations were threatened only because of, for example, they had a different ethnic self-consciousness or had another religion? What are we talking about?! [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] I pay attention to you again: the distinction of the bill is not the membership of the Bulgarian Communist Party and whether they were in leading positions, but the committing of a crime. The committing of a crime must involve criminal liability, and it must be prosecuted, and the end of thirty years or more cannot be an excuse. Let me ask you in the end: if one day the killer, for example, of Georgi Markov, killed in London in 1978, that is, more than 30 years ago, for which the statute of limitations for prosecution has obviously already expired, should the relevant head of the BCP then be found, who assigned it, shouldn't he be prosecuted?! [[Strong noise and lines from BSP LB. Replies from the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] He's got to be chased, right? The last thing I want to say... [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Please don't yell at me from the gym. Madam President, in order not to engage in dialogue... [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u35	Colleagues, you'll have a chance to replicate. [[Reply from the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u36	I'm waiting to hear the line, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov, and don't shout so peasant from the place. I would like to conclude with this, Madam President, that I am making an editorial proposal: in the last sentence, the word..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u37	Where is that?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u38	That's the end, last sentence, fourth or last word.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u39	Instead of certain positions, read...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u40	I'm in charge.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u41	A line? You have a first line. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP LB. Replies between the MPs Petar Slavov and Yanaki Stoilov.]] Please, please, colleagues! Mr. Slavov, colleagues, I've given the floor... [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Colleagues, I've given the floor. Mr. Stoilov, I've given the floor for a line, you have two more lines. [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] Make the line accordingly. We're listening, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u42	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Slavov, on the issue of the leading officers of the Bulgarian Communist Party, I would still like to introduce some order and clarity. Party Secretary of the Bulgarian Communist Party? Was this responsible position in the Bulgarian Communist Party? Commander in a military unit, even if it was a fireman in command, was this a responsible position of the Bulgarian Communist Party? If we continue in this way, in relation to the demand for responsibilities: and if there is a statute of limitations for the sale of "Balkan" for 300 thousand. The dollar and any of you ever gonna look for it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u43	Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u44	Dear colleague Slavov, I do not know your legal background. It's obvious there's no such thing. You're talking about leadership. This is ultimately a qualified composition for a certain crime. The very fact that he has held a position of office must be qualified composition. Absurd. That's really absurd. And you're saying we didn't have any legal arguments. On the contrary, we have legal arguments, but in the absence of any legal arguments in this proposal, how can legal arguments be answered? They're missing. And I just told you why they're missing. Read your Constitution, read the Law on Administrative Acts, read the Penal Code!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u45	Third line? A hole, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ermenkov, dear Mr. Popov! I have no claim to be sinless and, of course, you are in your right, if you believe that the proposed norm is contrary to the Constitution, to refer to the Constitutional Court. But didn't your party once say that she was sinless even when she sinned? Let me remind you. So I have no such claims, and if you believe that the norm is indeed wicked for any reason, refer to the Constitutional Court, let us hear their opinion. Otherwise, to encourage you among the executive positions in relation to third parties enter including, yes, and the management staff of State Security. And for that, rest assured!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u47	Mr. Nikiforov has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u48	Ladies and gentlemen! The text proposed to us is unacceptable for the following extremely legal reasons. First of all, the criminal theory is clear that the principle of the stability of the criminal situation of persons requires the exclusion of the reverse of a less favourable law to crimes in respect of which the statute of limitation for criminal prosecution or for the execution of the penalty has expired. Next, the punishment of crimes and the execution of penalties for which the limitation period has expired at the time of entry into force of this bill is contrary to fundamental legal principles and should therefore be considered inadmissible. Next: art. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria has no retroactive effect. For this reason, unlimited use of art. 15 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. The importers refer to the Pact, but the matter at issue is beyond its scope. Next: art. 2, para. 2 of the Criminal Code justifies the possibility of retroactive effect only of rules which shorten but do not extend and remove any limitation periods. Next: the retroactive effect of legal rules to the detriment of ex-tunc is permissible in relation to the legal facts created by way of exception. However, the opposite effect of such rules to already completed legal facts, such as the expired law, and this is the Institute of Material Law, is completely unacceptable and unacceptable even by exception. The above conclusions are supported by a detailed opinion of the Supreme Court of Cassation. I would also like to remind you of the Bulgarian legal tradition. I allow myself to quote the textbook on Bulgarian criminal law from 1899 by Dr. Dimitar Yovev, p. 405: The present has no dispute about the relative legality of the statute of limitations. All objections to it have been refuted. For this reason, I ask you to reject the proposed bill because when giving retroactive effect to art. 79, para. 2 of the Penal Code on Crimes for which the statute of limitation for prosecution and execution of penalties expired at the time of the entry into force of the law and the renewal of such cases ex-lege is extremely unacceptable from a legal point of view. Thank you. [[Applause from ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u49	Are there any lines to Mr. Nikiforov? For the first line, please, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Nikiforov, please do not mislead the MPs by talking about basic legal principles. These legal principles you speak of have their exception. These are the exceptions to crimes against peace and humanity, and human rights crimes are those crimes that refer to the entry texts. So be correct to these basic principles of law. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u51	Second line? I won't. Mr. Nikiforov. He doesn't have an ass. There is a floor for speech by the People's Representative Metodi Andreev. After him Yanaki Stoilov, Georgi Bozhinov and Velizar Enchev. [[Sighs:.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u52	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mr. Chairman! Today we can go out with a proudly raised head that something has happened that has not happened in Bulgaria for many years. We can expect today, if the left side is indeed modern Social Democrats, members of the PES, to support this Law, which will be perceived as a sign of repentance for what their fathers and grandfathers did many years ago. Now is the chance of the MPs on the left to make this commitment to modern society. This Law, in addition to its legal law, has extremely high moral consequences. It's a law of late justice. Actually, I'd like to say this. I'm not a lawyer. When we stood and worked in the Committee on Legal Affairs, I can say quite responsibly: not once, I repeat, not once was there a representative from the BSP! Only at the last second reading, which took place a few days ago, was Mr. Georgiev. It was their only representative. Not once! In other words, they do not know what arguments are put forward in the work of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Indeed, the question of statute of limitations, without being a lawyer, I learned some things, too, is a controversial issue in Bulgarian law. But he's not determined in one way or another. There are scientific disputes, there are scientific researches, there are books in which it is said that the statute of limitations, in this way, as proposed, can be abolished as long as there are retroactive texts that exist in this law. And I'm telling you straight out: this is the famous book The Devity of the Punitive Process. The lawyers know it. Otherwise, law is science to me. And since it is science, it must have the same principles, the same actions in all the Member States of the European Union. Here, I will now tell you what is the action of this science. Law and these principles, which you are currently criticising on the left, in Romania. On 25 July this year, you can read this in the Guardian, Die Press......................................................... and in many other places in the Western press............. in the Bulgarian press......................................................................................................................................................................... EUR fine for crimes committed during the period 1956? 1963! I repeat, in 1956, 1963, some 30 similar ones are currently underway in Romania, of course, now pending an appeal for another communist concentration camp in Romania. It's called the Peregrine in Russian, and in Romania it's called the Perigusta, which means a ford. Brod perhaps to the bright communist future. So, lawyers, if you are priests of one science, as is the right, I ask you in the same way to act, and not to spin the right as you please! The fact that your fathers and grandfathers committed crimes is a fact. That because of your position these 25 years there is no reconciliation in our country is also a fact. The fact that you call the victims of the communist regime and their successors some ghosts is all about a guilty conscience. Yes, for your fathers and grandfathers, they may be ghosts now, but for the people of the Republic of Bulgaria this is an unopened page. And today is the time, Socialist gentlemen today, all of us together to show a normal human attitude towards the victims of the communist regime. We don't want anything else. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And in the end, I just want to say a few... One sentence. People remember because there is a decree of the Council of State that lists several dozen generals of State Security for specific crimes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u53	The weather, Mr. Andreev!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u54	Just a minute...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u55	There's no way to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u56	Okay. Finally, I want to tell you: when you go out, tell me who you are, because, Mr. Ermenkov, you should have said that your father is an active fighter against fascism and capitalism! That's what you should have said!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u57	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. Are there lines and personal explanations? Personal explanation, Mr. Ermenkov. I will only give Mr. Ermenkov a personal explanation, because if for all grandfathers and fathers you go to explain, we just won't have enough time. Please come in for a personal explanation, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u58	Perhaps, Mr. Chairman, with a violation of the Rules, I take the personal explanation because I should normally take it if I'm offended, but I'm not, I'm proud of my father. I am proud that he was an active fighter against fascism and capitalism, he was a partisan and, among other things, partisan in Serbia, if you know what was in Serbia, Mr. Metodiev! That's where he was partisaning! He was a partisan there, and he was involved in both the first and the second stages of the Homeland War! And I'm proud of my father and wish each and every one of you to have such a father! [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. The next speech is from the MP Mr. Yanaki Stoilov, after him the people representative Georgi Bozhinov and then the people representative Velizar Enchev and after him Prof. Georgi Bozhinov. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u60	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm Yanaki Stoilov. I don't regret the lives and deeds of my parents, my grandfathers. Some of them were communists and socialists, most of them were not. These people have lived with dignity. They have worked, they have built Bulgaria, they are people whose memory remains unblemished by any laws that you offer here and who will be voted by a majority of the various political incarnations of people who rewritten their biographies, many of whom, or at least, their predecessors, used the benefits of the previous authority, which were put into government and parliament through various political forms. Soon we will have a reason to choose others here, for which we need to remind them more often. People who have always abandoned their own beliefs for the sake of instant gain. These are most who will support this law. Several legal arguments on the proposed proposal. Yes, indeed the text is legally fried and it is not as ridiculous as its original importers did. Among those who support it, there are former communist functionaries, former State Security collaborators, but they will today fight for human rights without having heard whether or not they have revised their activities from previous periods. If they had, they might have had reason to be instigators or supporters of these texts. But you do not seem to know the structure of the management of Bulgaria before the 1990s. This government was not entirely foreign to the idea of the separation of authorities. It did not actually recognise multipartyity, but the decisions made by the party authorities were put into effect by the state authorities. So with this text, you will probably not be able to attract any senior communist functionary if he, at the same time, was not involved in any state position in issuing orders or implementing relevant actions. In addition, you underestimate the fact that many of these decisions have been taken by collective bodies. Let me remind you that this issue is also relevant today, because, for example, in municipal councils, sometimes in actual criminal partnership, when ordering people with public property for their own or other benefit, they can hardly be held accountable. The same goes for mayors because they simply put in place formal legal decisions. And thirdly, you are creating the danger of a precedent in the future of introducing provisions in legislation, not only in legislation, in which to say that the limitation will not run in respect of persons whose official status has probably prevented them from being prosecuted by the Act of Acts for which there has been a basis. You do realize well that any next majority can prescribe similar requirements for all individuals who have participated in previous governments? And there you will no longer have any arguments to invoke an expired statute of limitations and other legal principles. So that's the ridiculousness of the exercise you're doing. I suppose you realize that this text, apart from any late ideological effects, will have no real legal consequences, because the statute of limitations is a material-legal status and it does not really concern only crimes against peace and humanity. All attempts to add any other compositions go beyond this classic category. So don't think that your fight with the old demons can gain you extra trust today. People today are already dissatisfied with other things and you will not be able to continue to mislead them with mistakes, and we can sometimes say with the crimes of individuals committed during the so-called communist government. Where there are such crimes, they should have been persecuted in the past years. If not done, this Law will neither clear your conscience nor cause their real legal responsibility. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. - What's the line? Here's a line for you, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u62	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Stoilov, this Law does not aim to please people and so on. This Law aims, as I said, to grant the sufferings, the relatives of the victims to receive retribution. The victims themselves, who are still alive, to see one day that at least one of the perpetrators of these crimes was convicted. I have said in statements in plenary and committee meetings, it is very important for us, for example, that the so-called Case No 1 for the revival process should finally end with a conviction. For the fact that it is not over, it is not a guilty DPS, nor any other political force. Guilty is the judiciary that you didn't want. The Bulgarian Court during all these years did not want to walk the way of this case to the end. With his repeated returns for investigations, the Bulgarian court made it possible to obtain a refusal of justice to expire the statute of limitations. We want the Bulgarian Court to receive a clear sign through this Law that this case and similar cases must be brought to an end. There's still a living defendant on it. So it's one of the motives that hundreds of thousands of citizens who have suffered from the revival process expect this and similar cases to end in conviction. They represent specific faces. They are clearly defined by the prosecution. So there is no reason to fear that an unlimited circle of individuals will be viewed, they are clearly seen by the prosecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. Mr. Metodi Andreev, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u64	Mr. Stoilov, here I am pleased with your speech. It was constructive as far as it could be done by a man on the left. [[Voices from BSP LB: "Eee! "]] . You said a few things that were probably true. You said the text wasn't so bad. My question is why didn't you help at the time of making these texts with these arguments of yours? Look, when we talk here now, we need to be open. Here, I give you my hand! I, Metodi Andreyev, to you Janaki Stoilov, and I say to you: Mr. Stoilov, today is the time to shake hands. You can prove that you're a modern social democrat, not a crypto-communist hiding behind a glamorous legal facade. I, Metodi Andreev, who I am known to be anti-communist, agree to shake hands with you if you today accept this text. Otherwise, it became clear from what you said that you did not dare to say that no crimes were committed at the time. You didn't say that in your plea. [[BSP LB.]] Crimes have been committed. You are rather looking for legal arguments that would serve in a possible trial against perpetrators of such crimes in order not to be convicted. In addition, you are a good lawyer, you can actually become a good lawyer to the first who will be held liable if this Law enters into force. It's your professional right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u65	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. Is there a third line? I won't. Mr. Stoilov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u66	Mr. Andreev, I am ready to submit to you, but in the name of solving problems that Bulgarian citizens expect, and not with exercises that you started during your participation in the government of Ivan Kostov, to accept political declarations called the laws, for the unlawfulness of some previous government. That's ridiculous. So there's no way we can get our opinions together on this field. I don't know if some right-wing social democrat would support such an idea. I'm a socialist, so I don't need to go into other incarnations to challenge your ideas. What Mr. Kazak spoke about the case, which he referred to, there, if in your opinion there is no result, it is not due to a reference to an expired statute of limitations, so others are. I'm not going to comment on certain lawsuits. But with what you're doing, it seems you're trying to exert pressure on the current judiciary and force it to commit acts that do not comply with classical legal requirements. I even say that this text cannot do you any good, but surely political appropriateness is always some pressure on the court, and we see nowadays that the court does not, in one or two cases, succumb to such pressure and is willing to respect the political situation in order to obtain a higher assignment so as not to be pressured on other issues that may be delicate or uncomfortable for magistrates and so on. That's what we're talking about. If you give up this proposal in any form today, it will rather make people think that there is a clear mind and an open mind. You can't rewrite the statute of limitations, because he, among other things, is also a material-legal institute. In other words, it is not just a matter of time limits that determine matters in procedural law. It is an institute of time, but it affects the factual and legal consequences of the acts. It's not a reverse date to justify or accuse anyone. Life is very colorful and there are both rightful and wrongful acts in it, including crimes. Is there time and governance in Bulgaria when crimes are not committed and sometimes severe, by people who have been provided with power? Such a period, unfortunately, will not. Therefore, it is best to apply the same principles, rules to act steadfastly, and then there will be a real impression of justice. Mr. Kazak said there should be retribution. As liberals, you'll find yourself in another embarrassment. In order for there to be retribution, we must also discuss other topics about the death penalty, about the attitude towards the adoption here of political decisions that have led Europe at the moment to severe trials and it is paying a great human and financial price. So put all these questions in place if we're going to have to discuss justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. For the next speech the people representative Georgi Bojinov, after him the people representative Velizar Enchev and after him the people representative Stanislav Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I, Georgi Bojinov, am a first-generation communist and a resocialist.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u69	Big deal!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u70	All my predecessors, who were MPs, mayors, anti-fascists and public figures, were activists of the Bulgarian Agricultural People's Union. I'm not ashamed of history and struggle and creation... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u71	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u72	...to my party, which gave a lot to Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people. I, like Yanaki Stoilov, do not deny that, along with the rise, creation there were mistakes, violations, even crimes. There is no such moment in human history that does not carry one and the other within itself. The orators before me have revealed the legal insolvency of this text. I define it as a pathetic crutch for a recognised political weakness. Why are the importers trying to compare the 45-year history of Bulgaria, called by them the Communist regime, to crimes committed at the time? What are their political motives today? They cannot compare, measure and recognize that in these 45 years, when there were both crimes and violations, Bulgaria got rid of the imprecise [[Rabbits and lines]] Bulgaria has become a developed and civilized state [[Replications of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov]] Bulgaria has reached high peaks in science, technology, culture and has earned a worthy place in cultural and civilization human reality. [[RB lines.]] This you cannot acknowledge and explain how the new political realities lead...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u73	Please, quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u74	...to poverty, to enlightenment, to not being able to heal yourself and not being brave enough to resist destructive processes, such as those that lead to the migration of thousands and millions of people. Ladies and gentlemen, as a man who has dealt with a theory of knowledge, I have come to the conclusion that the power of human thought is judged by the ease with which it moves from the concrete to the general, abstract-theoretical and returns to practice. Therefore, relying on your intellectual power, I will sum up my speech in one sentence, and it is that the authoritarian state is not the best, but it is no worse than the destroyed statehood and lack of state!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u75	What about the 16th Republic?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u76	Therefore, dear General Atanasov, for the destruction of statehood and of states there will be no statute of limitations! The bad news is that not those who caused it, and those who, as clickers, including from this tribune, have joined Bulgaria to the coalition of the willing will be responsible! The price pays the nations and today it is before your eyes! Go from this particularity and go back to reflection to show that you can bear responsibility. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojinov. Are there any lines or personal explanations? Here's a line for you, Mr. Hamid. Method Andreyev's second line. About induction and deduction.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Bojinov, I didn't exactly expect you to talk about mistakes and violations when it comes to the crime of the century! A great deal of Bulgarian citizens have been dealt with by real genocide. [[Applause from DPS.]] Hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens were forced out of the Republic of Bulgaria. Hundreds died in the camps, and you're talking about mistakes and violations. You have no right to such expressions here, from this high tribune! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u79	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. People's representative Metodi Andreev, second line. Peter Slavov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u80	Dear Mr. Bozhinov, in this minority tone in which you spoke, you should be talking about crimes committed precisely during communist rule. This tone is very appropriate. However, our National Assembly is not a confessional. That your souls are grieving for 25 years, how did you become rich, millionaires, oligarchs?! [[Noise, lines and single applause by GERB.]] How is it that most of all businesses are your property?! This thing you can't yet perceive. This thing is hurting you, it's hurting you! And the ghosts of your fathers and grandfathers torment you. I say again: it makes the impression that the Socialists are particularly honest with us today. They're starting to tell their families the story. We know the history of your families. There is no need to waste the National Assembly's time. Today you have two ways: either to prove that you are part of the bloody history of the Bulgarian Communist Party, or to show that you are a modern, left-wing Social Democratic Party. This is your dilemma today. [[Single applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u81	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. Third line.. People's representative Petar Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u82	Dear Mr. Bozhinov, I take the floor to note that we are commenting on a text that refers to crimes committed. We don't comment on the life story of one person or another. I'm sure a lot of the things you said about you and your family are the same. However, they have no bearing on the particular text. We are talking about people who have committed extremely serious crimes in these years who have not received persecution from the law and have remained unpunished, that is, there is an injustice that needs to be corrected. This is the text we foresee: punishments for crimes committed, from which individuals under the public situation they were then freed from. As far as authoritarian regimes are concerned, in the distant years 2000 the National Assembly has assessed this regime and declared it criminal. Even you and your party, which have since ruled several times, have not abolished this Law, which I take as a sign that you agree. Let us not give different assessments of what Parliament has already given as an assessment of the communist regime in Bulgaria, namely that this is a criminal regime.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u83	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Bozhinov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u84	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, honourable Members of Parliament! With your lines, you didn't make me reconsider, reconsider and change a single word of what I said. Mr. Slavov, when your father was in the Attorney General's Office in these and close to these times, why wasn't he such a close fighter against these phenomena then, and now you're bouncing?! [[Laughter and single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u85	Because he's guilty.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u86	Secondly, for the term "genocide" there is a great political struggle around the content of this term and the assessment of certain events and processes. I don't want people denying Armenian genocide to want to spread this notion to other processes that are worthy of denial, but do not have these parameters. Dear Members of Parliament, my speech had one purpose and one point: when you want to judge the past in this way, be at this height when processes are taking place today and decisions are made that lead to greater tragedies of millions of people and threaten Europe, and are aggressively silenced by the factors that judge these processes, that is the pathetic and worthy of denial! [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojinov. For speech there is the word of the people representative Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u88	Listen carefully! Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Here too many colleagues from the middle part of the Chamber, which I refer to, but not by name, so as not to give them the pleasure of taking a replica, talk about cryptocommunism and cryptocombunists. It's time to talk, since you mean cryptocommunism and cryptocombunists, about cryptophasism and cryptofascists in this parliament! [[Noise and lines from GERB. Single applause by BSP LB.]] I will prove myself and argue why there is cryptophasism in this Parliament. Just be careful, I'll talk about the Holocaust in a moment, and if you want to object, keep in mind that your American friends will immediately get you on the right track! Why, I ask, does this Law claim that there is no trial on limitation of criminal prosecution and the execution of penalties in respect of serious crimes against human rights in the period 1944. 1989? Why did you miss a few months earlier, 7 months earlier, when serious crimes were committed without limitation, some of which are still alive? It's about the shooting of a dozen children with their parents in Hawklino. What is this, gentlemen on the right, especially you from the center, who, thank God, are now silent because you are guilty of being heirs to these parties? I would like to draw your attention, honourable Members from the middle and from the right, from an international legal point of view, that the People's Court in Bulgaria was created as a result of the agreements in Yalta and Potsdam signed by the leaders of the Soviet Union, the United States of America and Great Britain and also joined them in consummating France. On this occasion, none of you has the legal right of internal and international law to challenge the judgments of the People's Court............... not that all judgments of the People's Court have been fair, I do not mean that. But speaking of justice, as I hear lines, let me say that in the People's Court, the authors of the People's Court and 70% of the members of the People's Court are members of the National Assembly, members of the Social Democratic Party, and you of the BZNC have a defence minister who is the largest kryptofascist, I can say the most calmly. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u89	Mr. Enchev, on the grounds of art. 156, para. 1 I remove you from the meeting for insulting the National Assembly and the Minister. [[Lowered noise and lines in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u90	And Mr. Metodi Andreev, who uses the concept of Kryptocommunist. [[(The National Representative Velizar Enchev continues to speak to off microphones. Claps by GERB. Noise and shout by BSP LB: "Fashist, fascist!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u91	For the next statement there is a prof. Stanilov. Please remove the Quaestors from the hall. [[BSP LB.]] There's more?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u92	On what grounds should he be removed from the room?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u93	Read art. 156 and you'll find out why. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u94	For us, this discussion can be appreciated by a single phrase that you draw a dead dog knife. How many of the people you're threatening to sanction under this Law are alive? But why are you doing this? You are doing this to continue the tension in society and to divert society's attention from its really current problems, from the monstrous challenges faced by the Bulgarian people and Europe. And in this regard, I will not extend to long and wide, I would like to ask you, colleagues on the right and everyone else in this House, when the Parliamentary Group of Ataka in two previous mandates submitted a draft decision of the National Assembly on the genocide of the Bulgarian people in the Ottoman Empire 1396 " 1878, why did you vote against" why? Why did you vote against? Was the statute of limitations valid then or wasn't it? Was there a statute of limitations or not? [[Replications from the Reformation Block.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u95	Please don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u96	Was there a statute of limitations, colleagues, for the period 1925 when thousands of Bulgarians were killed, led by the grand European poet Geo Milev? What was that? Was it Genocide? How many people were killed in the revival process that you call genocide? As much as you appreciate it. How many Bulgarians were exterminated in half a millennium of genocide in the Ottoman Empire, and you didn't vote that? And now you're going to vote on this lame one with both legs, a law that won't come out of it!? It's not gonna work! It just stirs tension in society. I'm just surprised at you. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attack" and BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u97	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Popov. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u98	Honourable Professor. Stanilov, you also missed some facts from our history, but I will remind them at the risk of being removed from this room. I will remind you of the immortal Vaptsarov and his: ▪ What does a person mean here?! Shots fired, and after the shooting, the worms. It's so simple and logical.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u99	What does Vaptsarov have to do with this?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u100	Victim of fascism. I will remind you of the Colossa Geo Milev victim of fascism! I will remind you of Stara Zagora, Kazanlak, Chirpan, Nova Zagora, the former Stara Zagora region and the darkest period of our new history 1941
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u101	Mr. Chairman, where's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u102	Each democrat Bulgarian should inevitably remain shocked by the savage lawlessness, which was king of the supposedly enlightened Bulgarian monarchy. Fascist gangs cross the country and sow death without trial or judgment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u103	What's the line to professor? Stanilov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u104	Civilian men, women and youth were kidnapped from their homes to be brutally incubated in police stations. They were hanged, beaten and executed by drunken executioners.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u105	Mr. Popov, please make your line to Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u106	Why have the esteemed importers of this Bill been exhausted from after 1944? Are crime victims less victims before 1944?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u107	Mr. Popov, please, I'll take your word for it if you don't give me a line to Professor Popov. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u108	My line is to the professor because he missed those facts. And that's why I remind you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u109	I'm listening. What's your line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u110	It's best if you take my word away from me that you can do it best and kick me out of the room. Thank you. [[Comments from GERB and BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u111	Is there a second line? I won't. To speak, the public representative Martin Dimitrov. I'm sorry, Professor. Stanillo's doppelganger? You're giving up. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov. [[Relations and noise in the hall.]] Please order in the court. Let's stop here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u112	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return you to the heart of this conversation. Today, Parliament can make only two decisions on this issue. The first, right, is to say the following: there is no statute of limitations for crimes of communism, they will be persecuted. That's one option. The other option offered to us, mainly by the BSP and by the Ataka, they say so: all governments were the same, during all governments there were mistakes, there were crimes and this justified, in their words and in their philosophy, the communist regime. That is, we have only two options today, ladies and gentlemen. And to tell you the truth, I would be ashamed if the decision of the Bulgarian Parliament was to justify communist crimes, as I would be ashamed if it justified the crimes of fascism. So today we can make only one honest decision to Bulgarian citizens. I admit that I am not pleased with a party that has a president of European Socialists, a party that claims to have broken up with communism, to have its representatives come out here and say that they were first generation communists, which I do not know what it means. You're either a communist or a socialist. How are you, both communist and socialist, people? What are you? Are you communists or are you socialists? [[BSP LB.]] You can't do both! It's about time you chose.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u113	Mr. Dimitrov, let's concentrate on the lyrics.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u114	I agree, Mr. Chairman, you're right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u115	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u116	It is high time to choose and it is high time for the Bulgarian Parliament to tell the truth: there can be no statute of limitations for these crimes. During communism, a large part of Bulgaria's elite were killed. The intellectuals were killed, some of the best Bulgarians were killed. Another part was sent to camps. Do you want to be responsible for these crimes? Yes, some of these people have died for real, but don't you want justice for others? In the end, it's about justice, ladies and gentlemen. Don't you want justice? Don't you want the people who committed crimes during communism to be held accountable even now if that hasn't been done so far? Why? Why are you running away from solving this question? A fellow Member of the National Assembly said: this was a long time ago and was therefore not important. It's very important, because for some of these crimes there is no retribution and no justice. And if today the parliament makes another decision, they will ask us: "Why are you voting like this, people? " and not only from the centre, not only from the right, they will ask every single parliamentary group. Even those who believe that BSP is already a European social democracy will ask you. They will ask you: how can you vote in such a way as to have a president of the European Socialists? You should have a president of the European Communists sooner then. It would be more honest and more correct after all. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the values of each and every one of you, to the conscience of each and every one of you, to each and every MP. I would even like to ask you: let us then vote to look people right in the eye. Do not turn out that today Parliament, because of a lack of quorum or because someone was not in the Chamber, or because someone had fled the vote, or for some other reason to prove that for the crimes of communism, it has given an indulgence. There's no room for such indulgences. And it's never too late, as the German president said, it's never too late to take responsibility. By the way, I noticed that the people of State Security are particularly worried about this text. They know why. They know what they were doing back then. They know what they're getting themselves into. They know what kind of human destinies they've spilled. They know each other, and that's why they won't vote today. But all of us, all of us who call ourselves the Democrats, when it comes to the crimes of communism and fascism, have only one choice and it is to bring about justice and vote for no statute of limitations. And whoever has committed such crimes, must bear their responsibility. So, fellow Members, vote for... to show that Bulgaria has no alternative but European integration, apart from democratic values, but the path to good. And we are prepared to punish evil even years after that. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u117	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. First line, Mr. Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u118	Dear Mr. Dimitrov, you clearly cannot understand that a crime is a crime, whether it was committed by a communist, socialist, democrat, anarchist, monarchist and so on. You are currently saying with this text that, due to some communist beliefs of certain persons, the composition of a criminal offence should be qualified. Absolutely insane! I repeat, absolute insanity! Furthermore, you do not distinguish between communism, totalitarianism, social democratism, socialism and so on. Why not enter into this Penal Code and into your proposals and now from the current democratic governance? Crimes committed by persons holding office in the democratic government of Bulgaria after 2000, for example. Or before 1944. [[Comments from GERB and RB.]] Yeah, but you didn't offer this text with a clear conscience that it should only be inserted into this period of purely political, low, really low judgment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u119	Thank you, Mr. Popov. For the next line, Prof. Stanilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u120	The colleague Martin Dimitrov said that we from Ataka have leveled all the crimes of all governments and so on, which was not true. I didn't say that. I merely reminded some episodes of Bulgarian history, and this particular episode 1925 - 1934 - which Mr. Dimitrov mentioned. I would like to remind you of just one line of the famous communist chief Georgi Dimitrov, who then wrote in a work case... an illegal edition that the September uprising carved a deep gap between the two sides of the Bulgarian people, which will never be filled. And he was right about now this discussion here proves how right he was, for yours and for my personal regret. In the beginning, our ideology is such that we believe that the dogma of communism and the dogma of Libertarianism that you profess are the same, two sides of the same thing, the destruction of human civilization. That's our view. What is happening now in the world and in Europe is proof that this dogma brings us to the new great migration of the peoples, which will destroy European civilization, as in the IVth century it destroyed it! The story spins and goes on a spiral! This is a repetition of what was done 1,500 years ago! It's a repeat! And you can see it, and it's the result of your dogma, not the Communist one, unfortunately, because the Communist one failed before doing such a thing. And he would have done it if he hadn't failed. You're screwing up too, even though you're laughing at me from here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u121	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. Here you go, Mr. Genov, for a third line. Then there are three procedures by the National Representative Svetlin Tanchev, by Gen. Atanasov and Stanislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u122	Dear Mr. Dimitrov, the colleague just said that the crime was a crime when it was committed. And about the gap you are currently opening, said the colleague before me. I would like to ask you: will we cancel or continue the statute of limitations for crimes committed by justified people and now by the Bulgarian court? [[BSP LB.]] What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u123	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Mr. Dimitrov, come in for the back. [[Radio, noise and lines.]] I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u124	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The lines have also shown a profound misunderstanding of the problem. He's like this. Whoever committed a crime during communism did not have justice and responsibility for it because it was protected by the Communist Party for this reason. [[BSP LB.]] Now whoever commits a crime, ladies and gentlemen, is also responsible for criminal charges. Anyone can give the signal. What he did. [[BSP LB lines]] ,...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u125	Don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u126	...can also be written in the Bulgarian press, bear any responsibility. While during communism there is neither democratic press nor democratic indictment, what the Communist Party says is happening. That is why many people have committed crimes and have never taken responsibility. That's the whole problem, that's the essence of the problem. Because they were protected by the Communist Party, which did not allow their people to be charged and held accountable. That's the problem we're solving today. And don't pretend you don't understand it. And as we align the communism of fascism, because both regimes are totalitarian and are against man, and are perpetrators of numerous crimes, you so many years later continue to defend a totalitarian regime, such as Communists. This shows, in fact, that you have not changed, honourable Members, which I regret. I appeal to the rest of Parliament for the last time: honourable Members, I ask that this National Assembly be at the height of a Member of the European Union which has shown that it is looking forward and not backward. Whoever committed a crime will be responsible for this, no matter when they did it! We also believe that the Bulgarian Parliament believes that there should be penalties for the crimes committed. It's also a sign for people who are thinking about committing some kind of crime right now. There must be no loopholes for anyone, there must be no escape for anyone, and there must be a clear responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, we have only two choices. One is to say: whoever has committed a crime during communism will even now bear responsibility. The other option is what the left hand offered us because it was a long time ago, because it is not known whether people were alive because all governments were the same, it did not make sense. It makes sense that I believe in you colleagues to be decisive today. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u127	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. The first procedure is the People's Representative Svetlin Tanchev. I very much hope the procedures are the same.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, thank you for the historical analyses you have done for the lessons you have taught us, but I think this is a topic that excites hundreds of people, and in our programme for the week there are enough important bills that interest both business and pensioners and schools and students. Let's move on to the vote. We've heard all the arguments on the subject. There has certainly not been a convicted politician in Bulgaria on the left and the right crimes. So let's go to something pragmatic, not just scare the crows and the spirits and talk about times that have passed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u129	What do you suggest?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u130	I suggest we call off the debate and move on to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u131	Thank you. People's representative Atanas Atanasov procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm gonna do my procedure, but I'm still only tempted to say two sentences first. I would like to address colleagues who have dealt with criminal law and may have forgotten certain circumstances of our closest history. It's good to remember these things. I don't remember the exact year of reference if necessary, but I would like to remind you that in our criminal law somewhere up to the 1970s there is a provision that can't be prosecuted by a military officer without the consent of his superior. The communist regime's repressive apparatus could have been sued if the chief agreed, respectively, the party committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u133	I'm asking for the procedure, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u134	I had to say that thing. If I'm wrong, let someone disprove me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u135	What's your procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u136	My procedure is to put an end to all of this and move on to a vote. [[Reply from BSP LB.]] What can't?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u137	I understand your procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u138	Can another one come out and say the same thing?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u139	Say something about what I said!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u140	Is the third procedure the same? It's the same. Is there a reverse opinion? [[Extreme lines between the MPs Atanas Atanasov and Yanaki Stoilov.]] I'm asking for order in this room. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Svetlin Tanchev to end the debate. They voted 144 MPs: 121, against 22, abstention 1. The motion has been adopted, which means we are going to vote. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal made by MP Philip Popov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 149 MPs: 31, against 95, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the editorial proposal made by the MP Petar Slavov from the parliamentary tribune. It is: the word "supplied" to be replaced by "supplied." Please vote. They voted 133 MPs: for 89, against 27, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on the text edited by the Commission of the importer for § 2, together with the editorial proposal made by Peter Slavov from the parliamentary tribune. Please vote. They voted 147 MPs: 109, against 25, abstention 13. [[Applause from GERB and the Reformation Bloc.]] The text of Paragraph 2 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u141	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm doing a re-voting procedure. With these applause you have just shown the misery of the Bulgarian Parliament. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] With this text so voted, you condemned Botev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u142	On the basis of art. 156, para. 1 I remove you from the Chamber. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u143	Only if you hadn't scored that period... Botev was a communist too, and you just sued him. [[Loud noise and lines, banging on banks and whistling from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u144	I'm asking for a re-voting procedure. If for you the poverty of the Bulgarian Parliament is not an insult to the National Assembly and you feel good about this definition, good for you! Bravo! [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u145	Get everyone out of here! Come on, kick everybody out!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u146	Order, please! [[Loud noise and lines.]] Order! Order! The Quaestors, order in the hall, please. Re-vote, please. We are voting again § 2 on the Commission report, honourable Members. Vote 148 MPs: 111, against 30, abstention 7. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]] Paragraph 2 has been accepted. Negative, come in, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u147	I take the floor to explain why I voted against this insane text, which today's pseudo-democratics, in their fight against history, imposed on today's National Assembly. This is a blanquet norm that has nothing to do with law, a blanquet norm that is born with the fascist laws that were adopted before 1944, and that is what the ruling majority proposed and voted on today. In your struggle for democracy and for finding an excuse for the state of today's Bulgaria you are fighting the chimeras of the past, with history and therefore you have not dared to violate the Constitution and use the Penal Code against the Fight against History. You're not gonna make it, and no one's gonna believe you. [[Deputies of the DPS are leaving the room.]] The people know what Bulgaria was, they know what it is now, and they know where its real development is. It's not what you're suggesting. The separation of the people and society is not the road that will lead Bulgaria forward. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u148	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u149	Who's gonna take her out? Who's BSP?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u150	Here you go, Mr. Gorov. Second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u151	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against it not because it was a long time ago, not because it should not be held responsible for past-tense crimes. I voted against a very simple reason for the hypocrisy with which this text is being proposed at the moment. If you had suggested that the captain who shot the hawks in the village of Yastrebino should have received his punishment to date, I would have supported this text, not the same person standing on a memorial plate next to the NDK. If you had suggested that the officers who killed the partisans near the village of Radjuvene should have received their punishment, I would have voted for. If you had suggested that the same killers who killed the flock in the village of Alexandrovo and a number of other people across Bulgaria should receive their punishments to date, I would have voted for the village of Alexandrovo. But your hypocrisy has no end. You believe that the only crimes that can be punished to date, with the distance of time, is the period 1944. This is hypocrisy, which cannot be supported by normal people, but those who have killed children on the road and over the road in Bulgaria, to receive indulgences and to stand by memorable records of commemorations. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u152	Thank you, Mr. Gorov. Docent Mihov, come in for a third negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u153	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I voted against it because I wanted to make my arguments, not in the debate, but after it. I voted against it, because this text has become a political duel between the left and the right for communctural purposes, let alone election. It has neither legal nor historical value. It is beyond doubt that the crimes against humanity committed in the era of communism and of any other authoritarian or totalitarian regime are not subject to limitation and history will speak, and has already spoken the verdict, but today we have seen the throwing of historical mythology and the crossing of rusty historical swords, of which even sparks have not flowed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u154	Who brought this on?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u155	I voted against it because the revival of this topic on a legislative path holds open the wound of the Civil War in Bulgaria in the period 1919. Because the chatter in the historical wounds leads to the division of the nation, to the opposition of the Bulgarians to the heirs of communists and fascists, to the heirs of the left and right. No son is ashamed of his parents and of his fathers. Is it necessary to oppose the sons of officers and guerrillas?! What does that lead us to?! And what does it give us when war comes back to Europe when waves of refugees flood us?! And we are resurrecting opposition! [[Private applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u156	Thank you, Assoc. Mihov. You're welcome, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the risk of being kicked out of the gym, I hope you'll leave me in both minutes to make a line about the way we conduct. Mr. Chairman, we object to the disproportionate punishment of our colleague Philip Popov! You removed him from the Chamber during the making of a line, without insulting any MPs, without insulting any minister. We strongly object to this approach to holding the sitting. Here, before him, there were at least five MPs who could be removed from the hall for insulting entire generations of Bulgarian citizens! But you didn't do that! You evicted our colleague for protesting that he made a line of speech, which you clearly do not perceive. We call on you to release the stands by the end of today's meeting and to bring the President of the Bulgarian Parliament to lead. I guess you can't. You lose your temper and abuse your right to remove MPs! Thank you. [[(Happy shouts from BSP LB, banging on banks and lines:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u158	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Order, please! [[(The rumbling of banks and the shouts of resignation, resignation!........................................ from BSP.................................................]] Since perhaps only Mr. Svilensky didn't have time to read art. 156... [[Voices from BSP LB: Tsetska, Tsetska, Tsetska! The President of the National Assembly Tsetska Tsacheva enters the Chamber. Applause by GERB.]] Order, please! Before that, I hope you don't take away the minutes that I have.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u159	We'll take everything from you!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u160	It's gonna be hard for you. Art. 156, p. 1. I guess you didn't have time to read it. 1 "How to remove a Member of the National Assembly. The first text is: The National Assembly is insulted. Read your transcript. He said: "The State of the Bulgarian Parliament. That's why I suspended him. [[Troping on banks from BSP LB. Tsetska Tsacheva takes the chair. Claps by GERB with shouts: "Bravo, bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u161	My fellow Members, I suggest we calm down and continue our work. As regards the disciplinary penalty imposed, there is a procedure under our Rules of Procedure which may challenge this penalty. It will be reviewed in accordance with the texts in our Rules of Procedure and we will rule. Procedure in the manner of conduct?.............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I take the floor in the manner of conducting what is going on in the management of the National Assembly. Madam President, I suggest that you, on your own initiative, change Mr. Popov's punishment. Yes, indeed he used expressions that made Mr. Glauchev president of the meeting to react, but in this case it should be borne in mind that during different actions and meetings the Bulgarian Parliament has a significant political shortage, because in fact the misery of parliament is a sharper way to say the same. It is clear that in this case, not only according to Mr Popov, but according to our entire parliamentary group, the Bulgarian Parliament was not at the level of its role which it should normally perform.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u163	That's your opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u164	Therefore, in the relevant vote, he said that Parliament had shown this misery. I feel the same way and therefore I suggest you reduce his punishment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u165	Mr. Stoilov, I will respect your opinion when I am properly addressed by the interested colleague. You know damn well I don't have that kind of authority, and if I do, you're gonna want my resignation. Let's continue with art. 3. Colleagues, today is Sofia's Holiday. At 11.30 p.m. during the holiday, the Sofia Municipality has complied, the MPs are invited to attend...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u166	Do you think there'll be enough tomatoes?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u167	Please inform us, Mr. Stoilov, if you have any information on the amount of tomatoes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u168	They've been informed!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u169	We're listening, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u170	Thank you, Madam President. Under § 3, the Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 3 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u171	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 3. They voted 107 MPs: 91, none, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u172	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 4, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 93 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: The following point shall be inserted (d) the functions of an arbitrator entrusted in accordance with the law of a foreign State; 2. point 28 is amended as follows: It's 28. "Pornographic material" is prepared in any way, indecent, unacceptable or incompatible with public morality material, the content of which depicts actual or simulated fornication, mating, sexual intercourse, including sodomy, masturbation, sexual sadism or masochism, as well as lustful display of the sexual organs of a person; 3. A t is created. 30: 30. The pornographic performance is a live or real-time presentation to others of a lustful display of the sexual organs of a person not over 18 years of age or of the participation of such a person in a real or simulated fornication act, copulation, sexual intercourse, including sodomy, masturbation, sexual sadism or masochism.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u173	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 3 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 94, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u174	Under § 5 there is a proposal of the National Representative Tsochev: In § 5, Art. 108a The following amendments and additions are made: In para. 1 after the words. 216, para. 1 and 5 (c) is added. 216 a.m. and a comma. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 108a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words. 216, para. 1 and 5 (c) is added. 319b-319d and a comma is placed. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: In any way, either directly or indirectly collects or provides financial or other funds, knowing or suggesting that they will be used in whole or in part: 1. to commit an act under para. 1; 2. by an organization or group which aims to commit an act under para. 1 or 3; 3. by a person who committed an act under para. 1 is punishable by imprisonment from three to twelve years. 3. A new para is being created. 4 and para. 5, 6 and 7: supposed for the purpose of committing a crime under para. 1 is punishable by imprisonment for up to eight years. (5) The children under para. 4 shall not be punished if it is voluntarily revealed to power before a crime has been committed under para. 1. (6) A Bulgarian citizen who went across the border of the country in order to participate in a crime under para. 1.. 4, including against another country, is punishable by imprisonment for up to ten years. (7) The punishment under para. 6 It is also necessary for a foreigner to participate in a crime under para. 1.. 4, including against another country, entered the country's border or illegally resided in it.................................................................................................................... 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u175	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u176	Madam President, on behalf of the MPs Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs, we withdraw all our proposals until the end of the bill, with the exception of the last text adopted by the Legal Committee under art. 344.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u177	It's about the unsupported proposals you're withdrawing. Thank you. Any other MPs? I won't. We are voting § 4 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 85 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u178	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 6 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u179	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 6 by importer. Vote 78 MPs: 77 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u180	Paragraph 7 "A proposal of the National Representative Emil Dimitrov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 110 the following 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: A foreigner who, on the territory of the country, prepares to commit a crime abroad under art. 108a, para. 1 shall be punished by imprisonment for up to six years, but no more than the punishment provided for in art. 108a, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u181	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 5 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 78, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, here we will interrupt to allow for a few minutes those who wish all MPs are invited to be in front of the flags for raising the flag of Sofia on the occasion of the celebration of the city of Sofia. I'm calling an adjournment at 12:00. I ask that we be in the Chamber at 12:00, as there is a second vote, let us not start with a name check. Holiday till 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u182	Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There has been a proposal from the MPs Christian Mitev, Boris Yachev and Emil Dimitrov, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 149 the following amendments and additions are 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: For fornication, the sentence is two to eight years in prison when it is committed: 1. through the use of force or intimidation; 2. by bringing the victim into a helpless state; 3. using the helpless condition of the victim; 4. by using a situation of dependence or supervision; 5. as regards a person dealing with prostitution. 2. In para. 4 is created a new t. 2: "2." if committed in respect of a person who does not understand the property or meaning of the action;
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u184	Thank you. Before we move on to the debate on the paragraph, let me read you a message. Today, September 17, 2015, has entered and is due to be distributed to the MPs A general draft of the bills amending and supplementing the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act adopted on the first vote on September 10, 2015. The project is prepared by the Committee on Agriculture and Food on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The communication shall be made in the light of the time limit for written proposals at the second vote. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. We move on to the vote of § 8 by importer, which after the amendment of the Commission becomes § 6 in the report of the same. Please vote. Please call off the vote. Name check. Aidoan Mutalib Ali is missing Ayhan Ahmed Etem is absent. Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Alexander Hristov Metodiev- absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov- absent Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Ana Georgieva Barakova- here Angel Petrov Naydenov- absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev- here Antony Antonyev Trenchev- absent Atanas Zafirov- Zafirov is absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Atanasov- here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov- here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov here Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov- absent Boris Yankov Yachev- absent Borislav Lyubenov Velikov- is absent Borislav Mihailov Borisov- absent Borislav Rajchov Milanov- here Borislav Sabinov Iglev- absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan-here. Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- absent Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov- absent Valentin Lubenov Pavlov- absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov- absent Valentin Stefanov Vasilev- here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- absent Vasil Milanov Antonov- absent Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov- absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov- absent Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- here Volen Nikolov Siderov- absent Vyara Mihaylova Tzerovska- here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Simeonova Georgieva- here Georg Danielov Georgiev- here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev- absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov- absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov- here Georgi Nikolov Nedev- absent Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev- absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski- absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov- here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov- absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - absent Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov- here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- absent Darin Ivanov Dimitrov- here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev- absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov-- here. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Ivanova Yordanova- here Dimitar Angelov Gorov- here Dimitar Andreev Delchev- absent Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov- absent Dimitar Krumov Tanev- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- absent Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov- absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev- absent Dimitar Hristov Zhelev here Dobrin Nenov Danev- here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov- here Doncho Spasov Baxanov- here Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa- absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Emil Dimitrov Reinov- here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Erdingh Ismail Hajrula-here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov- here Zdravko Dimitrov - absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- absent Ivan Kirilov Ivanov- absent Ivan Kostadinov Stankov- here Ivan Penkov Ivanov- absent Ivan Slavov Ivanov- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- absent Ivan Stoev Cholakov- absent Ivan Todorov Dimitrov- here Ilian Sashov Todorov- absent Iliya Yankov Iliev- absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva- here Sincerely Vasilev Veselinov- absent Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova- here Kamen Kostov Kostadinov- absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova- here Cyril Andonov Kotev- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin is absent. Cyril Dobrev Dobrev- here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev- absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev- here Kircho Georgiev Karagyozov- here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Korman Yakubov Ismailov- here Cornelia Dobreva Marinova- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov- here Krasen Georgiev Krastev- absent Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov- absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- absent Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- absent Krasimir Petrov Petrov- here Krasimir Hristov Jankov- here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - absent Krasimira Peneva Anastasova- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov- here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov- absent Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov- here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan is absent. Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva- here Mariana Georgieva Todorova- here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov- here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov- here Maya Bozhidarova Manolova - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- absent Method Borisov Andreev- here Mehmet Umer Ataman here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova- here Milen Vassilev Mihov- absent Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Mithat Sabri Metin here Mikhail Raykov Mikov- absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov- here Musa Cemal Palev- absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski- here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev- here Nevin Halil Hassan- absent. Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Neno Hristov Vlaikov- here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski- here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Petar Vladislavov Slavov- here Petar Georgiev Kadiev- here Petar Georgiev Kanev- absent Petar Ivanov Petrov - absent Petar Kostadinov Petrov- here Petar Pandushev Chobanov- absent Peter Hristov Bekov- here Peter Hristov Petrov- here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova- absent Plamen Veselinov Yordanov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- here Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova- here Radan Milenov Kanev- here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova- here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - absent Rumen Vassilev Gechev- absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov- here Rumen Dinev Zhelev- absent Rumen Ivanov- here Rumen Marinov Yonchev- here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev- here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin- here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova- here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova- here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev- absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov- here Svilen Filipov Ivanov- here Semir Hussain Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova- absent Slavi Penchev Binev- absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov- here Snezana Georgieva Dukova- here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov- here Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov- absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov- here [[Heckling]] Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov from the Reformation Block is also here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev- here Stefan Lambov Danailov- here Stephanie Mihneva Mihaylova- here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- absent Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova- here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov- absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva- absent Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev- absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova- absent Philip Stefanov Popov - clearly absent Hamid Barry Hamid here. Hassan Ahmed Ademov- here Hristian Radev Mitev- here Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristo Georgiev Todorov- absent Hüseyin Hassan Hafuzov- here Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov- absent Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov- absent Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska- absent Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev- missing Chavdar Slavchev Peychev- absent Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush-here Julian Krastev Angelov- here Yavor Bozhilov Notev- here Yavor Iliev Haytov- here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov- here Ianko Alexandrov Jankov- here Additional entry during the verification: Aliosman Imamov, Angel Naydenov, Boris Yachev, Valentin Radev.. was here and during the verification, Ayhan Etem, Dimitar Delchev, Valentin Alexiev Nikolov, Daniela Saveclieva, Ilian Todorov, Valeri Simeonov, Grozdan Karadzhov, Krasimir Velchev, Ivan Valkov, Krasimir Karakachanov, Milen Mihov, Mustafa Karadai, Stanislav Stanilov, Tasco Ermenkov, Hasan Ademov was here during the verification, Georgi Kovachev, that is 19 additional entries. Chetin Kazak was, too, just for the record, even though we have a quorum without him. There's a quorum, we can move on. I shall put to the vote § 6 on the Commission report, which shall represent the edited § 8 by importer. Voted 103 MPs: 95, no objection, abstention 8. Paragraph 6 of the Commission report has been adopted. If any of the Committee on Legal Affairs wishes to proceed with the report, please order.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u185	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10 which shall become § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u186	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 9 and 10 by importer supported by the Commission and become respectively paragraphs 7 and 8 in its report. Vote 95 MPs: 88, no objection, abstention 7. Paragraphs 7 and 8 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u187	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 11 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u188	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 11 by importer. They voted 86 MPs: 77, against 1, abstention 8. The Commission's proposal to reject § 11 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u189	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u190	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 12 to 16 including by importer supported by the Commission and its report shall be reflected as paragraphs 9 to 13 inclusive. 90 MPs voted: 83, none, abstention 7. Paragraphs 9 to 13 including the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u191	Proposal of the MPs Hristian Mitev, Boris Yachev and Emil Dimitrov: A new § 16a is being created with the following content: "Sixteen-sixteen-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. Article 158 is repealed. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... Article 158 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u192	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 14 with its content, as reflected in the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 87, none, abstention 3. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 14 with the corresponding content, according to the report on the same, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u193	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18, which shall become § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 17. Proposal of the MPs Hristian Mitev, Boris Yachev and Emil Dimitrov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20 which shall become § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u194	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for paragraphs 17 to 20, including those supported by the Commission, and shall take place in its report with the number from § 16 to § 18 inclusive. 88 MPs voted: 84, none, abstention 4. Paragraphs 15 to 18, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u195	A proposal of the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs is created a new § 20a. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 167 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the words "up to three years' shall be replaced by "one to three years'. 2. In para. 2 the words "up to five years' shall be replaced by "one to six years'. 3. In para. 3 words from one to six years and with a fine from five thousand to twenty thousand levs are replaced by a fine from one to seven years and with a fine from ten thousand to twenty-five thousand levs. 4. In para. 5 words from one to six years old shall be replaced by two to seven years old and a fine from ten thousand to thirty thousand levs. Proposal of the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 168a, para. 1 the words "up to three years' shall be replaced by "one to six years'. Proposal of the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 169 words up to three years, or with probation, shall be replaced by one to five years, and shall be replaced by one to five years.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u196	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I put to the vote the Commission's proposals to create new paragraphs with numbers 19 to 21 including, together with the relevant texts, according to the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 91 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 5. Paragraphs 19 to 21 are set up on a proposal from the Commission, together with the relevant texts, according to the report on the same.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u197	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 which shall become § 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u198	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 21, which is supported by the Commission and becomes § 22 in its report. 90 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 5. Paragraph 22 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u199	Proposal of the MP Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 22. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 23. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 24. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 25. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 26. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 251, para. 1 is amended as Any person who fails to fulfil an obligation to declare money, precious metals, precious stones and articles thereof carried across the border of the country which is an external border of the European Union and the value of the subject of the offence is in particularly large proportions shall be punished by imprisonment for up to six years or by a fine of the double amount of the subject of the offence.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u200	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 22 which, after editing the Commission in its report, finds its place as § 23. Please vote § 23 on the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 86, none, abstention 6. Paragraph 23 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u201	Proposal of the National Representative Emil Dimitrov and a group of MPs for the creation of § 22a. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova, Svilen Ivanov and Stefan Dedev for the creation of a new § 22a. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 280 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 words from 500 to 1000 BGN are replaced by 5 000 to 20 000 BGN. 2. In para. 2: (a) in the text before t. 1 words from 1000 to 3 000 shall be replaced by 10 000 to 30 000 BGN; (b) point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. the translation is organised by a group or organisation; 3. A new para is being created. 3: The sentence is a prison sentence of 3 to 12 years, a fine of 10 000 to 30 000 levs and a confiscation of part or all of the property of the child when the act took place with the participation of an official who took advantage of his position of office. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u202	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 24 together with its corresponding content on the Commission report. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 24 together with its content under the Commission's report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u203	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We're moving on to an additional report. No 553-03-104 dated 16 September 2015, which is to the Report, inc. No 553-03-102 of 11 September 2015 on a General Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, No 553-03-81 of 2 July 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u204	You are welcome to present the Additional Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u205	Thank you. A proposal from the MP Emil Dimitrov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Anna Alexandrova, Svilen Ivanov and Stefan Dedev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it the words "global from 1000 to 8000 BGN" shall be replaced by a forfeiture from freedom up to five years and a fine from 3000 to 10 000 BGN. 2. Paragraphs 2 and 3 shall be inserted: The penalty is one to six years imprisonment and a fine from 5000 to 20 000 BGN when the offence is: 1. carried out using a motor, aircraft or other means of transport; 2. organized by a group or organisation; 3. committed in a manner dangerous to the life of the person; 4. committed in respect of a person not over 16 years of age; 5. committed in respect of more than one person. (3) In the cases under para. 2, p. 1 The vehicle shall be taken for the benefit of the State if it belonged to the child. Proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which is reflected in § 25. A proposal from the MP Emil Dimitrov and a group of MPs. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which is reflected in § 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u206	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u207	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This monotonous move on the report may not have allowed much of the MPs to realise that we are actually adopting very important and up-to-date texts. They relate precisely to the countering and sanctioning of trafficking in human beings, refugees, immigrants, their transfer across the border, their illegal assistance to reside in the country. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, for example, the current text of art. 281, which, according to the Commission's report, remains a catal. 1 shall be limited only to the hypothesis: which, in order to obtain for itself or for any other property benefit, illegally assists a foreigner to reside in the country. I think that the huge problem at the moment not only in Bulgaria, but also in other countries, but especially with regard to our country, is not only that certain persons are being helped to reside, but mainly to move. This is the main problem of moving in the country from one end to the other. In my opinion, this circumstance should be added to the main composition of art. 281. Let's do it: who illegally assists a foreigner to reside or move in the country. In this way we will also cover this hypothesis, because the huge amount of acts in this case, in the current moment, consist not so much in supporting residence, because we see that no one is helping them to reside, they are sleeping in nature, in tents and so on, and the traffickers are helping them to move hidden in vehicles and so on. Therefore, I think it is good to add in addition to the residence and the movement in the country. I have another suggestion. In para. 3, as in the previous text, it says: "In the cases under para. 2, p. 1 The vehicle is taken for the benefit of the State if it belonged to the children............................................................................................................................................................ If the vehicle does not belong to the child, but for example to his brother, sister or parents, it is provided to him, it means that it cannot be taken away because it is not owned by the child. I suggest you add this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u208	He or she has been provided with voluntary assistance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u209	He's been given a voluntary offer, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u210	Your first proposal does not see where it can be reflected in the Commission text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u211	In the text of the Commission, refer to: 1. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: the following amendments and additions are made: 1. The current text becomes para. The words "or move" should be added here before the words "global of 5000" after the word "global" should be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u212	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u213	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr Kazak, this was actually the reason why we had to make an additional meeting and, respectively, make an additional report in order to clear the recurrence of the compositions that you witnessed in yesterday's Legal Commission, including regarding the content elements of the executive act. We commented in very detail at the main meeting what is the ratio between the verbs.................................................................................................................. In the light of the compositions, as defined, we have found that the "passing" and "staying" are identified, no special, separate difference is made. Outside of the legal commentary on the concept, I would say that I have made an effort to talk to specialists in the field who apply the standards in question. They explained that empirically they have rules to some extent, for example, if the crossing is up to 50 km, they act in one way, if it is 50 km deep from the border, act in another way and accommodate it in the accommodations. This, I would say, is an operational practice and interpretation which does not concern to such a extent the notions which the criminal court puts into these words. For this reason, we have not dared to redefine and enter into even more descriptive actions and verbs to separate, figuratively speaking, the refugee's path from the border within the state, how long he has been inside the state and this is a passage, or a stay, and has he left the territory of the country, respectively. The request was for all experts to prepare an edit which was set out in the Additional Report, which would clear the possible collisions and repeatability.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u214	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Second line "Julian Angelov."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u215	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Once again, we see DPS, worried about how illegal migrants come in with Bulgaria and are being trafficked, namely on the proposal to impose greater sanctions and to pursue human trafficking in Bulgaria their parliamentary group is missing. Only Mr. Kazak is here to show how the DPS is against this. I would call you: enough hypocrisy! If you really want to fight, to support change and to punish traffickers, call on your parliamentary group to enter parliament and support these proposals. When it's no use to you, you're not in the room. Thank you. [[Single applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u216	Third line, Mr. Slavov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It seems to me here that the remark of colleague Kazak is appropriate because indeed the current text of art. 281 says to reside in the territory of the country. And we're putting the other hypotheses on this structure. Or, in other words, if a trafficker or a channeller is caught tomorrow and is indicted, I assume that he, based on the text, will say: "Ama, I am not helping these people to reside on the territory of the country, I am helping them to leave it, therefore I am not guilty, please release me from the charge. It's clear what they're doing. Therefore, I, too, would suggest that it remain editorially resident or pass through. That is to say, both hypotheses must be done for sure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u218	A hole? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank you for the clarification that the President of the Commission has given, but I continue to consider, as well as Mr. Slavov, the particular text of art. 281 is pretty old. Generally, in Bulgaria so far, a problem has not been the movement of illegally entered and staying persons, but their shelter and hiding somewhere. Therefore, this text was focused on penalizing this action to help someone stay, that is, hiding them in your home or elsewhere. Now, however, the negative phenomenon we are witnessing is not so much the concealment of illegal residents as their help to move, to cross the border, to move across the country from one border to the other. And this thing has to be sanctioned at this point, it has to be criminalized because it represents part of the complex trafficking of human beings or sewerage. So I think it wouldn't be unnecessary to add explicitly that, apart from supporting residence and movement within the country. Whether you call it crossing the country or moving into the country is a matter of judgment, but there must be this addition. I would recommend to Mr. Angelov that he stop teasing in small quantities. Just grow up a little bit and stop with all this petty bullshit when we're discussing serious texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u220	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. To speak, the People's Representative Atanas Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm joining up with the talkers, and I'll motivate myself. First of all, I want to make a note that must distinguish between human trafficking and sewerage. Human trafficking is for exploitation. It's a completely different act. This is just a note, because it is important, it is about criminal law after all. We're talking sewers here. I, Mr. Kirilov, am a little confused because you point out that you generally accepted my offer, but you didn't accept it. Because that's exactly what I said in the proposal. Here's my text: The person who, in order to obtain for himself or for another property benefit, supports a foreigner who entered the country without permission of the proper authorities of power, or even with permission, but not through the designated places, to go through the territory of the country. And that term, that executive act is not corporate in the text. That is, we need to criminalize precisely the assistance of individuals to pass through. It's one thing to stay, it's another to pass. At present, this type of activity is being carried out against payment in the country certain individuals and groups of people help foreigners who enter the country to pass through Bulgaria. That's the term we need to incorporate. At present, illegal entry and exit through the country is punishable, but the promotion of the activity is not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u222	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u223	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Atanasov! I'll allow myself to read the three compositions. Article 279 is: whoever enters or exits the border in certain or unspecified places. Article 280: who led across the border of the country persons. Article 281 is: it illegally assists a foreigner to reside what you say and is your proposal, but it is contained in art. 281. It's a composition now, and that's exactly the point. And since your proposal on the composition duplicates the already existing composition, but to take the essence and the greater punishment, so the experts had to work and reach the final editing proposal in question. So I won't agree that it's gone. There it is, and well, I'd say, as well in good faith as possible.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u224	Do you have a second line to the MP Atanas Atanasov? I won't. Here you are for the doppelganger, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague Kirilov, let's understand the residence is to stay in Bulgaria, the passage is quite another thing. Elementary is the difference. I do not agree that residence swallows the passage. Agree with me and give if you have to, with or without, but let's write it down or pass through. Let me get this straight. Otherwise, we allow for a different interpretation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u226	That's Mr. Kazak's offer, actually.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u227	Well, yeah. And he's right. That's what I said. That's what I support. Let it be a resident or a passer-by.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u228	Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote, first of all, Mr. Kazak's proposal on this. 1 in § 25, in art. 281, p. 1 "The Previous Text in para. 1 after the words "residence' to be added to or passed on and on, according to the Commission's report. Please vote. Vote 72 MPs: 64 against 4, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. In fact, point one already acquires the type: The current text becomes para. 1 and in it....but what follows is that what follows is the word "global".... must after the words..... have a supplement... or pass................................................................... Isn't that right? Am I reading this right?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u229	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u230	The offer is accepted. By para. 3 made a proposal again the People's Representative Chetin Kazak. On the Commission's report, the test ends with the closing of quotes after Mr. Kazak's proposal is before the point is placed or is provided voluntarily. We finish the sentence and close the quotes. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u232	Please vote. Vote 79 MPs: 71, against 5, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 25, together with the newly adopted editorial proposals made by Parliamentary Representative Chetin Kazak. Please vote on the Commission proposal to create a new § 25. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 25 of the Commission's report, together with the editorial proposals made in the House, has been unanimously adopted. You have the floor, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After accepting this supplement with regard to the vehicle in art. 281, I suggest we go back to Art. 280, para. 3, where there is an identical text, and there also to add this expression to make the two texts the same. I mean, in art. 280, para. 3, at the end of adding Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u234	- What's the line? Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u235	Dear Mr. Chairman! In principle, we do not object on the contrary, we strongly support, because we will have uniformity with regard to the element in both compositions. However, I cannot tell how we could go back to the previous text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u236	We can't go back. There will have to be a new proposal from MPs and a new view.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u237	I mean, if there is a procedural possibility, please consider that Mr. Kazak and I have made such an editorial proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u238	Any other lines? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u239	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, Mr. Kazak and Mr. Kirilov! I agree with you, but procedurally, that can't happen. There is no way to go back to texts that we have already voted on. So the decision from now on is a new bill, through the Commission and in plenary, I am sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u240	Do you want a hole, Mr. Kazak?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u241	Thank you. I do not see any serious problem in going back to the text.......... he has not been changed, that is to say he has not been accepted in two readings. It's just an editorial amendment within the framework of the adoption of a second reading. It aims to align the two texts, which are identical, for the two compositions for crossing the border and for crossing the country when a vehicle is used. Otherwise, it will remain incomplete. In one case we will punish one way, in the other case another. While we are still within the framework of the adoption of a second reading, this editorial supplement is fully relevant, even more so if there are no objections to the substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u242	Thank you. Any other speeches? We return to § 24 and vote on the proposal made by Parliamentary Representative Chetin Kazak for editorial amendment in order to have a synchronization between paragraphs 24 and 25. Please vote. Vote 65 MPs: 61, none, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. [[Comments from GERB: "Prevoting! "]] A re-vote, obviously, someone has failed to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u243	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I guess some of our colleagues didn't vote because we're actually getting into a more complicated procedural situation. I'm clearing the air.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u244	They just didn't get a vote in time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u245	Yes, they have failed to comply that we are not changing anything in what we have voted on, we are simply adding an editorial change to the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u246	Please re-vote. Vote 66 MPs: for 66, against and abstention there is no. The editorial amendment to § 24, a new one has been adopted. We continue with the proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u247	Proposal of the MPs Hristian Mitev, Boris Yachev and Emil Dimitrov. Mr. Mitev has informed me that he is withdrawing the offer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23 which shall become § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u248	It's going to be § 26. From now on, the numbering will now be changed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u249	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23 by the numbering of the importer. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24 by importer: ????????????????? Article 3 is replaced by the following: 304c: Art. 304c. The penalties referred to in the preceding Articles shall also be imposed where, with the consent of the official, the foreign official or the person claiming to exercise influence, the gift or the benefit is offered, promised or given to him. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 the following amendments shall be 1. In the letter "Six years', the words "five years' shall be replaced by "six years' and the words "eight years' shall be replaced by "ten years'. 2. In point (b) (i) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) the words shall be replaced by the words "v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) the words shall be replaced by the words "v) (v) (v) in point (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) the words shall be replaced by the words "v) The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26, which shall become § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "up to one year" shall be replaced by "one to three years" and a fine from BGN 200,000 to BGN 1000. 2. In para. 2 the words "up to two years" shall be replaced by "one to five years" and the words "from one hundred to three hundred levs" shall be replaced by "from five hundred to five hundred levs." 3. In para. 3 the words "up to two years" shall be replaced by "one to three years" and a fine from five hundred to one thousand BGN. 4. The creation of para. 4. If the act under para. 3 is done again, the penalty is imprisonment from one to five years and a fine from five hundred to one thousand BGN. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27, which shall become § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the words "up to two years" shall be replaced by "up to three years" and a fine from two hundred to one thousand levs. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: In the course of one year of its administrative penalty for driving a motor vehicle without a corresponding driving licence, such an act shall be punishable by imprisonment from one to three years and by a fine of five hundred to one thousand and two hundred levs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u250	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Slavov. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Several paragraphs have been read. I have an editorial proposal under old § 25 which has become a new 28, which states that the Commission supports the texts of the importer. In the new version, I do not see what I had suggested, colleagues, as part of § 25, namely this is joining the heavy qualified drivers of vehicles that have hit a pedestrian on a pedestrian path or in a drunken state and so on, and those who pushed a pedestrian, have caused death, severe or moderate bodily injury in a pedestrian zone or at all in the areas that are intended for the movement of pedestrians, and not of cars and cars in them at all. By the way, I note that at a Commission meeting we commented on it quite a lot. In view of the objections to case studies here, I stress that colleagues from GERB helped me and gave me a very good editing that I have written. Since I did not see it in the Commission's report, I will now read it to you, namely the editing to do so: The following text is added in the text before the letter "supplied" at the end of the words "or on a walking path" and the following text is added here is the editorial proposal which I will give you, Mr. Glauchev: "or on areas in the settlements, intended only for pedestrians in the territory of which the movement of the vehicle is prohibited.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u252	This is § 25 by importer, which is a new § 28. I don't see anything like that in the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u253	The point, fellow Members, of this proposal is to stop with this extremely unpleasant practice, which in recent years we have witnessed such serious accidents, serious crimes in which pedestrians have died, including children, to give conditional sentences and to treat them in general for an act of negligence. That way it can't happen anymore.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u254	You're actually proposing creating a new t. 1 and now 1 and 2 become 2 and 3, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u255	Yeah, that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u256	Do you have any lines? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u257	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Slavov, in the original text of the importer is proposed in point. 1 such text, which in the debates in the Legal Committee led to three editorial versions. Here I would say rather as a non-penalist, for the most part these editorial options were given some support, but the vote reached the failure to accept both the original text of the importer and the three editorials. The arguments of fellow penalists are strict and they say that in para. 3 We should not continue with the practice of a case-by-case enumeration. Therefore, we have also allowed several colleagues to propose such editorials, which have a generalising categorical concept. That's what I wanted to point out for precision in terms of debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u258	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kirilov, I take your speech as a kind of support for which I thank you. We did not mention that the Commission had two good proposals. One of you, one of my colleague Atanasova, who practically divided the votes in their support and therefore none of them raised enough votes to be supported in full, but one of them was evenly equaled the votes for.................................................................................... Given that the proposed text brings together the two proposals, I hope that it will receive support in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u260	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u261	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, despite the opinion of the Legal Commission, I believe that this proposal cannot be editorial. It was also proposed in the Transport Commission as a proposal for a change in the Road Traffic Act. There we did not discuss it with a view to making a new Law and the Commission, which works at the Ministry of Interior. I call on the importer to withdraw it, as there is no such concept in the Road Traffic Act. I don't know how we're gonna tell the drivers which areas are off-limits. You bring in all the areas that aren't allowed, but what does that mean? Let's go through the committees that need to discuss this thing. I'm not taking this as an editorial right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u262	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u263	Shortly, just to tell my colleague that we are currently in the Penal Code, this is not about the Road Traffic Act. I have no memory of what situation he's talking about, but it is very clear in the Road Traffic Act which areas are for pedestrians only, so the reference to this Law in this sense has it. What's forbidden is very clear. It's forbidden what law says is forbidden, so there's no point in guessing what's forbidden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u264	Second line? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Svilenski, you may have your arguments that have been heard in the Transport Commission, but I would like to point out that we were looking at the Criminal Code in the Committee on Legal Affairs. There were presented the arguments of all colleagues who had proposals. I think the proposals we are currently discussing are unanimous. So I ask you to support them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u266	It's a hole, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u267	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova, for making a line, but as far as I know in the Legal Committee, these things are not supported. There is no way to propose an editorial amendment to something that is not supported. You don't have any lyrics. What kind of text are we doing editing on right now?! Text not adopted by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u268	Why isn't it in the report?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u269	He's not anywhere. It's not in the report either. I therefore say that it is unacceptable to vote on such an editorial proposal. Let us discuss it properly in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u270	Colleagues, to bring clarity to those who do not have the texts before me. By importer § 25 provides for an amendment to art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3. Point one says: the text before the letter (s), at the end of the words (s) or on a walkway (s) shall be a comma and shall be added to areas intended only for pedestrians or parks, gardens and playgrounds in the settlements in which the movement of the vehicle is not permitted. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 et c. 3 it is about the amount of sanctions imposed as punishment in the presence of a composition under point. 1. The Commission's proposal in the report states that the text of the importer is generally supported. There is, however, a new version that does not have a point. 1, Nowhere is it about composition and violations that are provided in pedestrian paths or in other places where the movement of the vehicle is prohibited. The Commission's report in the new numbering of § 29 states that only sanctions, penalties imposed for crimes committed are concerned. At the moment, after an importer in t. 1 there has been such an amendment, for me it is permissible as an editorial supplement to be put to the vote, and what the House will accept is a separate issue. Are there any other statements on this text? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u271	Thank you, Madam President. I am delighted with the clarification that has been made. It was important to be aware of what was by importer and that this text should be voted on. Otherwise, it stays between the lines. I take the floor to invite the House to support the text. The case is very simple. There must be much more severe punishments for the jigs that allow themselves to drive everywhere. If they allow themselves to drive in forbidden areas, closed streets, it is much heavier than to commit such an act in a pedestrian zone. I think it's heavier. Therefore, I ask that we support this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u272	Mr. Atanasov, as the written proposal has been submitted to me, it starts from nothing. Editorial proposals shall be proposed in relation to the version of the Commission. I cannot put forward an editorial change to something that is not in the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u273	According to the text of the importer...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u274	You support the text of the importer as it is. [[The National Representative Petar Slavov explains to the President.]] So you're also offering editing of t. 1 by importer. That's not gonna happen, guys. I propose that we postpone the vote on this paragraph and move on. During this time, I ask you to make your written proposals correctly so that we know what we are voting on § 25. I shall put to the vote the reported § 23, which shall become § 26 of the report, already in view of the vote, and § 24 by importer in the new version of the Commission. It's § 28, but it's actually going to be § 27. We are voting for anbloc § 26 and 27 on the report, respectively § 27 and 28. Please vote. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. [[The National Representative Petar Slavov explains to the President.]] Mr. Slavov, I'm waiting for a new edit. According to the paragraph you gave, this text does not fit in any way with the Commission's text. [[The National Representative Petar Slavov continues with the explanations.]] No, don't explain it to me. Write it down. Whatever you write, I'll put it to the vote. Mr. Kirilov, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u275	Dear Madam President, before this dispute, I have also read the content of § 26, which is renumbered to § 30, as well as the next paragraph, and you have reached Chapter 14. Those two paragraphs should be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u276	I put to the vote import paragraphs 26 and 27 which are numbered by the report respectively 30 and 31, but will have a new numbering of § 29 and § 30. Please vote on the two paragraphs on the Commission report. Vote 74 MPs: for 73, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u277	Under § 28 by importer, the Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 28 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u278	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 28 by importer. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u279	Proposal of the MP Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the CPNS: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the words "up to five years' shall be replaced by "one to seven years'. 2. In para. 2 the words "from one hundred to three hundred levs" are replaced by "from one thousand to five thousand levs."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u280	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 32 on the Commission report, which will receive a new numbering from the Final Texts. We are voting § 32 in its version on the Commission report. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u281	"Additional provision'. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 29, which shall become § 33: ................................................ This law introduces the requirements of Directive 2011/93/EU [[Madam President, I am making a technical correction: 93 is printed and 92 is printed]] of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on combating sexual violence and sexual exploitation of children, as well as child pornography and replacing Council Framework Decision 2004/68/JHA (OJ L 335/1 of 17 December 2011; OJ L 18/7 of 21 January 2012.) (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u282	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the name of the section of the Additional provision and § 33 in its version of the Commission report. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u283	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes that the name of the division of the Law be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u284	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u285	Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 34 and § 35: ................. The pending proceedings for crimes under art. 167, para. Art. 2, Art. Art. 168a, Art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 and 4 and under art. 344, para. 1 is finished in the current order. § 35. In the Act for withdrawal in favor of the state of illegally acquired property (prom., SG...) in art. 22, para. 1, t. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 158a, para. The following
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u286	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission proposal for new paragraphs 34 and 35 with their respective content on the report. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u287	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 30 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u288	We are voting on the Commission's proposal. They voted 86 MPs: 74, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u289	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31, which shall become a paragraph of corresponding numbering: "Paragraph 2" shall also apply to the offences for which the limitation periods have already expired. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding numbering.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u290	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u291	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In these last paragraphs, we return to the topic that we discussed most today at the beginning of the Bill. These texts are a logical continuation of this controversial decision and are in fact contrary to the principle that the more favourable law is applied in criminal law. This is also a constitutional beginning, and the question is raised: by voting on these texts, how will these texts be applied contrary to the fundamental foundations of law? I understand why you need them to give a continuation of an unfulfilled idea, but I am obliged to draw attention to this fact. Of course, we will vote against these texts. Even accepted, they can be challenged because they contradict norms that are of higher rank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u292	Any lines to Mr. Stoilov? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission proposal in principle in favour of the importer under § 31 in a new version of the Commission, which shall be numbered as § 36 of the report. We are voting § 36 on the Commission report. Vote 94 MPs: 67 against 19, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u293	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u294	It's a re-vote. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u295	Thank you, Madam President. Part of the group failed to vote, so I ask for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u296	Revoting, coworkers! Vote 94 MPs: 67 against 19, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer under § 32, which becomes § 37 on the report, but, again, there will be a new numbering after the final conclusion of the second reading of this Bill. They voted 91 MPs: 65, against 18, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we return to § 25 by importer, on the report § 29. Mr. Slavov's proposal is for an editorial supplement. It is acceptable for me to put it to the vote, as that is the case. 1 has it by importer of § 25. However, it proposes a different version of what is not supported by the Commission, namely: in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 the following amendments shall be made: point one, new, this is the Appendix. "1." In the text prior to the letter........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Isn't that right, Mr. Slavov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u297	Madam President, you have read the text correctly, only the editorial proposal, as § 29 goes, in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3, there is actually added the text that I have provided to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u298	Yes, however, look at § 29 on the report - the front is the total: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 the following amendments shall be made:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u299	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u300	And then we have t. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u301	This clarification is before the following amendments. Can I talk to you for a second?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u302	So this is still in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3. They're all in al. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u303	Colleagues, once again I read the editorial proposal of § 29, what to look like: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 shall be added after the words "or on a walkway" "this is the text of art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3, the following text, which the President has just read, and the following amendments are made and further points 1 and 2, as they are, are quite separate and are not affected by it. Do you understand me?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u304	I get it, but I don't take it that way.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u305	The following amendments shall be added:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u306	So in order to allow it, it has to be a new t. 1 as it goes by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u307	Maybe so.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u308	I put to the vote Mr. Slavov's editorial supplement for a new item. 1 for change in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 in the way I read it: the following text is inserted after the words "or on a pedestrian road' and the following text is added: "Or on areas in the settlements intended only for pedestrians in the territory where the movement of the vehicle is prohibited.' We are voting on this editorial supplement. There will be work here and the Final Texts. Vote 66 MPs: 22, against 2, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer under § 25 which shall become § 29 in its version of the Commission report. Vote 76 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 1. The proposal has been adopted and, with this, at second reading, the amendments to the Penal Code. We're going back to: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR PRE-SCHOOL AND SCHOOL MOVEMENT.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u309	May I have the procedure, Madam President?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u310	Maybe procedure, Mr. Stoilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u311	Madam President, on behalf of the BSP Parliamentary Group, we want a 20-minute break so that at least under the next law the work is not like the work that has just been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u312	Adjourned until 2:15 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u313	Members of the National Assembly, please enter the Chamber. Mr. Stoilov is gone, asked for a recess to mobilize for the vote. [[Heckling]] It's the opposite of what I see in this room. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u314	Thank you, Madam President. Under art. 110 has a proposal from the MP Mariana Todorova. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The proposal has been withdrawn under paragraph 1. 1. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs in art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 t. 2 is deleted; The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Boyka Marinska, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Mariana Todorova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 110, which becomes Art. 110. 112: Art. 112. (1) In individual form may be trained: 1. students of compulsory school age who, for health reasons certified by a medical document issued by the relevant expert medical committee as defined in the Health Act, cannot be trained in daily form; 2. students in compulsory school age.. at the request of the student or parent, according to the order of art. 12, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. students with prominent gifts; 4. persons aged 16 years. (2) A single form of training shall not be organised for students under art. 49, para. 2, p. 1. (3) The self-catering form shall include independent preparation and examinations for the determination of annual assessments of the subjects of the school curriculum. (4) In the case of an independent form of training, the school curriculum for daily or evening form shall be applied. (5) Students under para. 1, t. 2 who are trained in their own form at the request of the parents and do not achieve the necessary competences in the relevant class, continue their training in compliance with the requirements of this law in another form of training under art. 106 recommended by the personal development support team. (6) The individual form of training for the students under para. 1, t. 2 shall be organised after a decision of an expert committee established at the regional education management. (7) For the conduct and organization of the self-catering form of training for the students under para. 1, t. 2 in accordance with the requirements of this law, control shall be carried out on each period of study by the expert committee to the regional management of education under para. 6. A representative of the Social Assistance Agency is required to participate in the committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u315	I ask the MPs in this Chamber to take their seats. Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u316	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This is one of the very important texts in the Law because in point. 2 Students up to 16 years of age are expected to be able to study at home either at their own request or at the request of their parents. Families will have to provide conditions, and acquired knowledge will be certified by taking exams to school. Solving home education is a good option, for example, for disabled children who can hardly fit into a school environment, especially in preschool groups and whose parents are already trying to establish associations so that they can create appropriate training conditions. However, current laws do not provide for such a species, to call it a collective home-schooling, and the parents of such children face different obstacles to trying to ensure the best for their education. It is reasonable for the Law to provide such a form of self-education, but to allow it to be allowed for all children at parental request, as provided in the text, we believe it is a return of home-schooling from the 19th and early 20th century, when wealthy parents hired private teachers to be able to train their children at home. Today, the motives of some wealthy families can be others to isolate their children from aggression, drugs. In the near future, perhaps they will not be units those who will benefit from such an opportunity. Instead of taking real measures to bring discipline back to school, however, we may once again, if this decision is voted on, we will create prerequisites for more problems in the education system from now on. The next step may be to ask the state to pay the parents for this training, not to mention the new social division and isolation that can be obtained. Therefore, once again, when discussing such a text, we should think about the long-term consequences of such initiatives. I would also like to point out that, in the Commission, and now, I think it is not clear whether an assessment of the impact of the self-training standard has been made at the request of the student or parent. Wouldn't this turn into a circumvention of the compulsory education into a circumvention of the Constitution, which provides mandatory training for up to 16 years? In our view, there is not enough clarity on the criteria that would be applied by expert committees to regional education departments, in the way of responsibilities of training, in the responsibilities of these committees and of the parents who will make such a choice. So far, the Law, with the decisions that have been made, has taken care to secure the rights of children and parents who have chosen a private school for their child. However, by closing the auxiliary schools, the children with severe disabilities and the parents of these children with special educational needs were deprived of choice. Who will take advantage of the self-catering form of training? I have already pointed out such an opportunity for children of parents who have great material opportunities. But perhaps there will also be cases of parents who want their children to work instead of study. To what extent will this choice be useful to these children and students? Other parents can choose self - training for religious reasons. Why did we rule in art. 11, already adopted by the Law, not having ideological or religious doctrines in the education system? These doctrines can also be distributed through the self-training form. In this way, we will deprive children of the opportunity to communicate with their classmates, to know no other world than the family or the narrow community. I therefore appeal to you once again before you vote to pay attention to these arguments, because, in practice, the standard of self-education at the request of the students and parents recorded in this text of the Law can lead to a new increase in the number of children dropping out of education and of isolation from society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u317	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u318	Madam President, honourable Members! That is exactly the question that we have discussed with my friends and in my family. I would like to share our opinion on the issue that children could study at home at the request of parents only for a certain period of time and for certain indications and indications. They can be healthy and unhealthy problems. If, on the basis of parents' opinion alone, we leave a child deprived of contact with his peers and the social environment in the family, we will very seriously harm, badly affect the social adaptation and the psychoemotional growth of this child. I would like to make an association with the immunization calendar and with the compulsory immunisation. We have never allowed ourselves without special indications that parents should judge and put the child's life at risk, not wanting it to be immunized. The state has a commitment to the children, to its citizens, and not always the parents can be given all rights to determine the fate and future of their child. Please allow the possibility of home-schooling to be only for a certain period of time and for certain indications. Otherwise, there are parents who can not always appreciate the environment and the psychoemotional role of the public environment, and thus some children can be harmed. I shared my opinion of my surroundings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u319	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u320	Madam President, honourable Members! I am personally hopeful for this article because the previous very well expressed the thesis why all children should not be allowed to have this self-shaped parent, of course, if they want to. As said by colleague Boyadjieva, of course, we need to provide the opportunity for children with special educational needs or for children with prominent talents to have this choice to care for their children, but all healthy children should be educated at school. Like you said, there's no impact assessment. I mean, we don't know the educational system, the public and municipal schools what part of the students will lose and they will actually leave school and start learning homework. This is partly a circumvention of the Constitution, where by the age of 16, education is mandatory. We have no way of knowing in the family whether proper care for the education of the child is taken. We'll figure this thing out in a year when it goes to the exams. There's a problem here. When the child is 15 years old, he has gone to the exam and it is understood that he has not acquired enough knowledge and has to go back to school, if he is near or is 16 years old, he has lost a year, the Constitution itself does not oblige him to return to school and it will be removed from the system. In Bulgaria, as I have repeatedly said, there are about 400 schools with under 200 students, these are underfunded schools. If at a school like this, 3 children are drawn to education at home, the school itself loses its number and classes will begin to close. At some point, it may be necessary to close the school itself, which is a threat to the settlement itself. As the colleague Boyadjieva said, the withdrawal from school could be for social reasons. More wealthy parents may prefer to hire private teachers to educate their children at home, and poorer fellow citizens may prefer children to help them in their daily work and thus not be able to go to school. Here is the time for the danger of domestic education from religious propaganda, because we do not know during this one year until the time for an examination how these children will be educated. As I said yesterday, when we commented on another Bill, there are 23% dropouts in Bulgaria. In my opinion, the amendment that we want to make right now, that is, the importers want to do, will do nothing but cover up these 23%, because for these children it will begin to say: "They are learning at home, they have not fallen out of the system. Basically, there are many dangers. It is precisely this amendment that is one of the main dangers in this Bill and is perhaps another article in which we make separation between children and parents in the educational system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u321	- What's the line? There are no lines to Mr. Mirchev. Come in for a speech, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u322	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, first of all, I would like to clarify that this is not an amendment, this is a practical law which we are adopting today in a second vote. We do not make any addition or amendment to an existing Law. The bad news is that of all those who spoke earlier, I did not hear the motives behind the danger. Perhaps it is good for the younger ones to remind them that such a form of home education existed back in the 1970s, in the 1980s. In fact, I would say, if we go back in time, that the criteria set out here are much, much more serious, including related to linking this activity to social services, especially with the Agency for Social Assistance. This is very good, for example, because this will not allow and prerequisites for relevant marginal societies to take advantage of the opportunity to trick and develop any process of corruption practices. From this point of view, my opinion is that the text is as well refined as possible. Naturally, there will always be a position where danger lies. Colleagues, I will share that this is giving parents a choice in the first place. Secondly, over the last two years, it has proved that practically such a right of choice want parents who are highly intelligent, highly educated people. In my personal opinion, many of them are lecturers who have the opportunity to prepare their children in a home environment perhaps at a higher level. Personally, I will support the text, firstly, because it relaxes the state from spending public funds; secondly, it allows; thirdly, it is something well forgotten old. Again, this worked in the '70s and '80s. To remind you of the criteria. In order for a student to then go into a home form of training, one of the criteria was for him to have a success of at least 5.00, which should not be demoted. If he was demoted, he was immediately returned to class, so to speak. I think there is reason in this proposal, and I will personally support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u323	Replices to Mr. Bayraktarov? First line, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u324	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, you have obviously not listened to me. I will not comment on mine, but I guess you have not listened to both speeches before me. These were made quite clear why this is dangerous.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u325	Why? I was listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u326	Well, listen to Mr. Dobrev and Mrs. Boyadjieva. Sitting here, not listening and talking to each other by heart is your business. That there was this kind of training in the 1970s, we're trying to move forward, right? The danger has been said.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u327	Who are they, come on, say them!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u328	We just said them. Why do they have to repeat themselves?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u329	You say it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u330	Mr. Mirchev, you're making a line and you made a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u331	We said there were 400 schools with under 200 students. Five students to go homeschooling from the school, it's shut down. Over 1,600 schools have been shut down for 25 years. Do you want to close another 400?! [[Reply by MP Milena Damyanova.]] You're commenting... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u332	Colleagues, please, you have a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u333	You're commenting on people with opportunities who will. Those 23% we're talking about dropping out of the system right now aren't people with options. The parents of these children are not people with opportunities. Do you understand that? They drop out for quite other reasons - economic, social, ethnic and so on. The only thing that's going to happen to this amendment is to cover for these kids. Let's just say they're self-trained at home.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u334	Second line? Here you are, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u335	Mrs. Chairman! Mr. Bajraktarov, I hope you have information that currently several hundred Bulgarian children are taking advantage of such an opportunity for independent training. None of us in our arguments contest the right of parents and their children who have health reasons for such training. We also do not dispute the right of the bright talents of Bulgaria, which are in childhood and school age. We are talking about the wide opening of the doors for home education and we have made it clear that for social and religious reasons, I may have a large number of children to ask for home education from parents. The question arises: will not the rights of these children be violated other than the parents' assessment? We have given enough examples of what can happen when too wide an opportunity to apply such a norm has opened up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u336	Third line? I won't. The hole is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u337	Thank you, Madam President. I'll try to be more delicate in my ass. To Mr. Mirchev, I would say simply and plainly that someone is difficult to distinguish between computer and compote. In my speech, I have in no way used a definition that some parents are more wealthy, on a higher social step. I said intelligent people and pointed out as an example that many of these parents are teachers. I'll be very happy one day to see the teachers receive a proper reward. Mrs. Boyadjieva, to tell you the truth, I don't understand what you're concerned about, if you're not concerned, as well as Mr. Mirchev next to you, there are schools that produce and conduct poor education and poorly trained students. I do not want to say this at all from the stand, but in recent years the quality of Bulgarian education has fallen too low for great regret. Do you want to be given the right and opportunity of intelligent parents who have the relevant conditions under the Child Protection Act, I can tell you what art. Art. 23, art. 8 of this Law, it is good to read these articles, knowing that there is no way for a child to live and learn in an environment that... My congratulations to the importers who have linked the text to the social assistance services in order to have the social control that you are worried about I said it. However, there is something very important and important here. You said some religious kids could go to school. Can't they do it now? Are these mongrels that we at SKAT TV have shown not once or twice, do not exist?! Were these mistresses not admitted because of a wicked government, that on top of all that and slap the children there, perhaps by religious beliefs?! Shall I go on? To you, Mr. Mirchev, I'd say it's not going to the egg to teach the chicken how to lay eggs. Thank you. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u338	Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u339	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! At the beginning, when we started looking at the Bill, I called for a constructive debate. Let's not turn the debate on the bill into an election campaign. We don't shut down auxiliary schools, we don't separate children. On the contrary, they're separated right now. Let us leave these supporting points for another time and focus on the specific texts that we are dealing with and the specific texts adopted by the Commission. Colleagues, what we have united around is the introduction of control over training, which takes place as an independent form of training. We are not talking here about home education, but about an independent form of training that exists at the moment under the current Act. Colleagues, the problem is that at the moment there are about 500 children in Bulgaria who are not trained in an independent form of training or in any individual way! How is the state currently controlling the training of these children?! How does he control whether these children's rights are respected?! Not at all! Yes, perhaps it is easier to admit that such children in Bulgaria do not. There are no children, and there are no problems! We introduce guarantee of children's rights. Yes, we are expanding the self-training form, but that is precisely for this purpose, introducing strict control in enrolling in such an independent form of training. First of all, we have said that the enrollment will take place after a decision of an expert committee at the regional education management. We've recorded control at the end of each school term. We have recorded examinations after which, if the child has not mastered the relevant competences, it must be passed into another form of training, in this case, for example in a daily form of training, the traditional form of training, so as to ensure the quality of education of these children. There is no danger, as you are trying to instill, in these groups children who from marginalized groups, simply because they will not and do not meet the requirements for training, do not have the necessary environment, parents do not have the necessary education. And this is established by this panel of experts. That is why we have also implemented control by the bodies of the Agency for Social Assistance. Regarding your concerns about schools, colleagues on the left, about closing the schools, there will be no such danger. First, are we thinking about the child or are we thinking about preserving the institution? Let's answer that question. But I will return you a little further back when we talk about closing schools, I will return you in the period 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, when 563 schools, 57 serving municipal units and one state department are closed in Bulgaria. So let's just not talk about closing schools. [[Applause from GERB.]] The next term of 2009 closed schools, and only because of lack of students, are 119. So who closes schools very clearly remembers the Bulgarian society, the Bulgarian citizens remember. And since, normally, everything that we have proposed in this Bill already exists as separate practices, we have exchanged practices from the most successful European and educational models, I will allow myself to quote to you several countries in which this form of training is authorised. This is a reference overview prepared by the National Centre for Information and Documentation at the Ministry of Education and Science: Austria, Belgium, by the way, the conditions are the same for recording, and therefore the control has been written in this way, France, Poland, Czech Republic, Finland, which we very often give as an example as a successful educational system, Ireland, and I will finish with Russia, in which such a form of training has existed since 1992. What we need to do as legislators is to sign provisions, texts in the Law, which guarantee the rights of children and which guarantee control by the state for the training carried out in the respective environment and which these children are receiving at the moment. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u340	- What's the line? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u341	There is. Line!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u342	Colleagues, let's get organized. I understand you're agreeing...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u343	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Damyanova, you didn't listen when we spoke. We are not opposed to this form of training for children with special educational needs and with prominent talents. In fact, in t. 1 of para. 1 we agree completely. We have criticism of the t. 2 of para. 1, if I correctly quote. The other, because this debate is most likely led by you once again, we have also expressed these in the Commission and you then felt what you wanted to do in the original form of this text. And then I said you were creating a Frankenstein, and then in the next paragraphs you tried to put some chains on him. But I don't understand why we have to create Frankenstein. You are quoting certain periods in which schools are closed. I quote to you the period of democracy in which most of the right-wing parties were ruling as a time when the period was closed another 1000, except those 500. And you're cooking each other another 400. We also commented on this about going into another form of training. But there is one problem here.... if the child has passed an independent form of training at the age of 15 and found at the age of 16, that is, after one year of the relevant exams, that he has not done well and must go into regular form of training...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u344	In day-to-day form.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u345	... in a daily form of training, this child under the Constitution is not required to study anymore. And we can forget about the education system at this point in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u346	Second line please, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u347	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Damyanova, do not put us in pre-election rhetoric, because our considerations on these texts are expressed even at first reading and second reading at a time when it was too far from the election situation. I would like to repeat once again that we are not against the texts that concern children for health reasons and children with vividly prominent talents, but in this text of the Law, which is now available for second reading, there is a record that allows for all parents and children such an opportunity. Moreover, for children who are underage, the decision to be made on their behalf by parents and minors with the consent of parents. Therefore, we are against this wide opening up the possibility of self-training on the arguments we have already put forward. Second place for auxiliary schools. Yes, we will continue to comment on this issue because with the decision taken by the National Assembly, you have not given the choice of parents of children with different degrees of disability, which has been repeatedly expressed as arguments. Finally, you are talking about closing schools, of course during the different periods after 1991. I will say today in the hall once again, because this has sounded another time, that in our management in fact the most schools have closed down, but why? Because delegated budgets were introduced on the idea of the NDSV. And I think that's enough as an argument as to why so many schools had to be shut down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u348	At the Triple Coalition.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u349	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u350	Ms. Boyadjieva, delegated budgets will remind you that they were introduced in your management in 2007. [[Applause from GERB]] with Prime Minister Sergey Stanishev and Finance Minister Plamen Oresharski. After a big teacher's strike, if you remember. Yeah, that system was a good decision. It has its flaws and we are now making amends with the Bill. This decision allowed the increase in teachers' salaries. So this decision is yours. Again, I say it is good, but it must be improved because it is normal over the years to give deficits and to show shortcomings in certain respects. With regard to closure, why did I tell you that I didn't agree and that I rather define it as election speaking? It is true that we have not come to Transitional and Final Provisions, we will get to that point, but if you have read, there is nowhere to close secondary schools, but their transformation into special educational support centres that concern only those children who cannot in any way be integrated into the mass school. Of course, if the parent wants his child to study in a general school of mass education, he has a choice whether to be separate or to be with other children. Please, let's stop speculating because you're speculating on the pain of parents, and, colleagues, you're not honored. [[General applause from GERB.]] Regarding Mr. Mirchev's reply, who creates a division? So children with disabilities, in your opinion, should be given the opportunity to study at home. So, in your opinion, they shouldn't socialize. The same is true of children with talents. But the other children, whom for one reason or another their parents preferred to choose another form of training, to discriminate against them? Children with SPOs can if we can at home and not show them to the public at all! Is that what you want? And once again, my fellow Members, this does not concern all children. There are certain criteria to be met by both family and parents and the environment so that this enrollment can be allowed in such an independent form of training. And once again, colleagues, about 500 children are also training at home. Who controls the training of these children? They don't exist for the education system. How do we guarantee their rights? Or is it easier for us to say, no, they're gone, they don't exist for us, they don't exist for what's going to happen there? Our decision and our proposal is not that. We want control and respect for children's rights. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u351	Are there any other speeches? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 87 MPs: 5 against 69, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. Now we vote art. 112 in its version of the Commission report. They voted 86 MPs: 79 against 7, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u352	Article 111. A proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 297. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Stephanie Mihailova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 111, which shall become Article 111. 113: Art. 113. (1) Remote form can be organized for training in the classes from V to XIII including: 1. students who, for health reasons certified by a medical document issued by the relevant expert medical committee as defined in the Health Act, cannot be trained in daily form; 2. students with special educational needs; 3. students with prominent gifts; 4. students who for family reasons reside permanently in the territory of another country and cannot attend school in its territory. (2) By exception, when the student is on treatment abroad for over 30 days, a remote form can be arranged for training in classes I to IV including. (3) In remote form, training for the acquisition of vocational education cannot be organised. (4) The training in remote form shall be carried out according to a school curriculum developed on the basis of the relevant framework study plan for remote form. (5) Training in remote form under para. 4 for students with special educational needs and for students with prominent gifts can also be carried out according to an individual curriculum developed on the basis of the relevant framework study plan for remote form. (6) The distance form of training shall be carried out through the means of modern information and communication technologies and shall include distance curricula, self-preparation, current feedback on the results of the training and attendance examinations for the determination of time-term or annual assessments of the classes from the school curriculum. (7) Remote form of training may be organised by a school which has the necessary technical and technological conditions in accordance with the state educational standard for the physical environment and information and library provision of kindergartens, schools and centers for support for personal development. For distance learning, the student individually provides the necessary technical and technological resources.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u353	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 113. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u354	Article 112. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 112, which shall become Article 112. 114: Art. 114. (1) A combined form of training shall include training under the conditions and in accordance with the order of daily form and individual training on one or more educational subjects from the school or individual study plan. (2) The training in a combined form shall be carried out according to the school curriculum or an individual curriculum for students with special educational needs and for students with prominent gifts. (3) A combined form of training may be organised for: 1. student with special educational needs; 2. a student with prominent gifts; 3. a student in the classes of the basic degree of education, moved to a school where the foreign language that the student studied before his transfer is not studied, provided that there is no school of the same kind in the locality in which this language is to be taught; 4. a student in the 7th grade, moved to a school where no subject is studied from the extended training that the student studied before moving if the transfer takes place after the beginning of the second period of study. (4) In the cases under para. 3, p. 3 and 4 instead of the foreign language or the relevant study subject from the extended training provided for in the school curriculum, individual training in the foreign language or the study subject that the student studied prior to his transfer shall be organised. Individual training is carried out by another school in accordance with art. 113, para. 4, 6 and 7 or from the host school under art. 112, para. Three and four. (5) In the cases under para. 3, p. 1 Individual training may take place in one or more educational subjects. Individual training shall be carried out by the school in accordance with art. 111, para. 2 or from another school in accordance with art. 113, para. 4, 6 and 7. (6) In the cases under para. 3, p. 2 Individual training takes place in one or more subjects where the student has demonstrated lasting abilities and achievements beyond the achievements of his peers. Individual training is carried out by the school according to the order of art. 111, para. 2.... 5..............................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u355	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 114. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u356	Article 113. Proposal from the National Representative Mariana Todorova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: We offer the following version of art. 113: The training by working (dual training) is a form of vocational training to acquire professional qualifications by working in an undertaking where the person is assigned to a particular place of employment with a training clause containing the professional qualification by: 1. practical training in a real working environment; and 2. theoretical training in a training institution. (2) The training through work (dual training) shall be organised by the technicians in partnership with the enterprises. (3) The training through work (dual training) is organized in the second high school stage for students who are 15 years old. (4) Training through work (dual training) is also organized for students who have aged 15 years and have left the educational system (or have not attended school). Proposal by the MP Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 113 are created. 4, 5 and 6: suppliers aged 16 who do not have an initial stage of primary education may be included in the forms of training in the workplace (dual training) to acquire a first degree of professional qualification, together with training for literacy organised by schools in the system of folk education. (5) Persons who are over 16 years of age who do not have a completed secondary secondary education stage may be included in the forms of training at work (dual training) to acquire a degree of professional qualification. (6) The means of carrying out the activities under para. 1 and 2 shall be provided for by the central budget and/or European funds and programmes and shall be provided on the basis of regulations established by the Council of Ministers. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is 1. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The training in the workplace (dual training) is organized for students in the XI and XII class who are over 16 years of age. 2. A new para is being created. 4 and para. 5. The training in the workplace shall be organised: (a) in classes and/or groups, through the school curriculum in accordance with the curriculum, at practical level of training and in a real production environment; (b) for individual learners and/or groups working at the employer's request and when negotiating between the school and the enterprise. (5) The organizational and financial conditions and responsibilities of the partnership between the school and the undertaking in the dual system of vocational training shall be signed in the Law on Vocational Education and Training. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 113, which becomes Art. 115: Art. 115. (1) Training through work (dual training system) shall be a specific form of training in which the professional qualification is acquired by: 1. practical training in a real working environment and 2. training in professional high school. (2) Training through work (dual system of training) can be organised by a professional high school based on a partnership between one or several employers. (3) Training through work (dual training system) is organized in the second high school stage for students who are 16 years old.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u357	Statements? I won't. We are going to vote: I am voting on Mr. Yanaki Stoilov's proposal and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 82 MPs: 12, against 47, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 87 MPs: 12, against 1, abstention 74. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 12, against 61, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 115 in the version of the Commission Report. They voted 83 MPs: 76, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u358	Under art. 114 "A proposal from the National Representative Mariana Todorova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 114, which becomes Art. 116: Art. 116. (1) The organisation of training in a day-to-day, evening, background, individual, remote and combined form of training, as well as the conditions and arrangements for transition from one form of training to another shall be governed by the state educational standard for the organisation of activities in school education, and training through work (dual system of training) shall be organised and carried out under conditions and under the order laid down in the Vocational Education and Training Act. (2) The assessment in the various forms of training shall be carried out under the terms and conditions of the State Educational Standard for the assessment of the results of the students' training.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u359	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 116 in the version of the Commission Report. Vote 82 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u360	Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 117. "Department VII......................................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VII. Under art. 115 The proposal from the National Representative Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 115, which becomes art. 117: Art. 117. (1) The evaluation shall be a process of establishing and measuring the results of the training and the level of preparation of the students for their future realization. (2) The main objectives of the assessment shall be: 1. diagnosis of individual achievements and of the student's progress and identification of his needs for learning and the areas in which he needs support; 2. monitoring of the educational process for the implementation of policies and measures aimed at improving the quality of education. (3) Assessment shall be carried out: 1. in the process of training; 2. at the end of a class or at the stage of education; 3. upon completion of a degree of education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u361	Statements? I won't. Anblok, we vote on the name of Section VII "Assessing the results of the training of students" and art. 117 on the Commission report. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u362	Under art. 116 The proposal from the National Representative Ivan Cholakov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The proposal has been withdrawn under points 2 and 3, and the Commission generally supports the proposal referred to in points 1 and 4. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Borislav Veliev, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal of the MP Boyka Marinska made under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 116, which becomes Art. 118: Art. 118. (1) The assessment shall be carried out by ongoing tests and examinations. (2) The current tests shall be carried out in the training process and part of them shall be based on projects. They are a tool for feedback and motivation for learning. As a result of current tests, current assessments and the number of points on the basis of which short-term or annual assessments are formed shall be placed. (3) The assessment shall be an indication of the extent to which the competences achieved by the students as a result of the training correspond to those defined with the state educational standard for general education, the state educational standard for the profiled training and/or the state educational standard for the acquisition of qualification by profession and/or the curriculum of the relevant study subject or module for the relevant class. (4) For students with special educational needs who are trained under an individual curriculum, the assessment shall be an indication of the extent to which the competences laid down therein are attained. (5) No assessments shall be made by the educational subjects, modules or activities provided for the study in the optional hours of the school curriculum, except for sports schools, in the course of the studies under art. 92, para. 1 as well as special study subjects for students with sensory impairment. (6) Exams shall be: 1. equilibrations; 2. determining a term or annual assessment by subject of study; 3. to change the assessment; 4. to establish the degree of achievement of the competences defined in the study subject curriculum for a particular class; 5. to establish the degree of achievement of the competences defined by the state educational standard for general education, with the state educational standard for the profiled training for a certain stage of the degree of education and/or with the state educational standard for the acquisition of qualification by profession; 6. State-owned maturity. Article 117 supposed by the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 117, which becomes Art. 119: Art. 119. (1) Depending on the assessment, the assessment may be: 1. internal.. when the assessment is placed by the teacher; 2. externally when the assessment is submitted by a commission or by a person other than the teacher. (2) Depending on the organisation and scope its assessment in the course of school training may be: 1. national students from the same class across the country; 2. the regional.. covers students of the same class within one or more areas; 3. the school is covered by students of the same class within a separate school; 4. the group.. covers part or all of the students of one or more classes; 5. individually for a separate student. (3) At the end of the IV, VII and X grade a national external assessment shall be carried out to establish the degree of achievement of the competences for the relevant stage defined by the state educational standard for general education. (4) The Ministry of Education and Science shall establish a mechanism for publicity, transparency and annual analysis of the results of national external assessments, which shall be used to develop policies and measures to ensure a sustainable improvement of the quality of education. (5) The format of the national external assessment under para. 3, the educational subjects under which it is carried out, as well as the arrangements and arrangements for the organisation and conduct thereof, shall be determined by the state educational standard for the assessment of the results of the students' training.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u363	Colleagues, speeches under Articles 118 and 119? I won't. Anblok, we are voting on both articles in the version of the Commission report. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] There's a procedure? But I've announced a voting regime. After the vote, you will do the procedure. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 81 MPs: 76, none, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u364	Madam President, honourable Members! I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct to note that we have been dealing with the Education Bill for about an hour and a little bit above, and there is no representative of the Ministry from the political cabinet, there is no minister, there is no deputy minister. After all, the Law we adopt, they are the ones who will have to carry out it in practice. At the very least, in addition to reading it, they still need to hear the opposition's concerns, take them further into account in their behaviour. Eventually, if there are any risks, avoid them. I understand that it is now late at 3:20 p.m. we still have to call a minister or a deputy minister because there are 40 minutes left.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u365	We've already called him, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u366	But I'm asking you tomorrow, if we ever get to that law again, let's not let this thing happen. Let us, however, at least out of respect for the people's representation have a representative of the political cabinet here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u367	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. I reacted promptly to your proposal. During the Secretariat, the Minister or member of the cabinet is also invited, I am referring to Deputy Ministers, to attend the vote of the Law. We haven't voted for an hour and a half. We've been voting for two and a half weeks. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u368	Article 118 supposed by the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 118. 6 to be edited as follows: The students in the first grade are not subject to quantitative assessments and the students in the second and third classes are not subject to quantitative assessment only on the subjects of the cultural and educational fields of Arts and Arts and Technology and Physical Culture and Sports. Alinea 7 to acquire the following edit: The students with special educational needs who are trained under an individual curriculum shall be assigned quantitative or qualitative assessments according to art. 118, para. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 118, which becomes art. 120.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u369	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u370	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our proposal consists of two parts. Simply put, children between the second and third grade, except with the words "excellent," "very well," "good," "mean" and "weak" to be assessed with the corresponding quantitative dimensions, i.e. figures. Our second proposal is to allow for evaluation of children with special educational needs to be allowed and evaluation with quantitative assessments, i.e. with these figures. Why am I trying to convince you of our rightness? In the Law we have already defined what assessment means in terms of the legal basis, but in each methodology textbook the evaluation is seen as part of education. The evaluation and testing of the student is a mechanism, instrument of the teacher, of the teacher in the training process. He's an integral part of it. There was a time when there were no assessments, there was a time when there were assessments. We defend the thesis that evaluation of children with quantitative dimensions allows the teacher, the educator another training tool. This is not a tool for repression, for punishment. This is an instrument in pedagogical work, in teaching the teacher, because an undeserved five can be a good incentive for a child to feel with opportunities and to work, or against an undeserved four, for example, to signal a capable child that he needs to make more effort. Why, in our second part, do we allow the choice of children with special educational needs to make quantitative assessments? Our motives are as follows. If there are such children with special needs that are able to develop at a higher stage, then the presence of quantitative assessments makes their statements, their documents comparable to the standard documents of other children. That is, graduates of the 7th grade, they will have quantitative evaluations, which will be a completely indistinguishable diploma from other children. These arguments are purely professional and in them stands, I think, the experience of many educators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u371	- What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u372	Mrs. Chairman! Prof. Mihov, my reply to you is because this issue is extremely controversial in Bulgarian society. There are opinions that are from one extreme to the other, both parents and teachers. I personally share your opinion that this norm that you have written in your proposal should be applied. Because how will the children of the second and third grade learn to understand what will happen in the upper classes if they do not gradually get used to the training at this younger age?! I think this will not be detrimental to their development in a proper pedagogical approach, but will be useful. We will vote in favour of the proposal you have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u373	Second line, Mrs. Kotseva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u374	Dear colleagues, for the Committee on Education and Science, this debate is déjà vu. We really had a lot of debate about it. We have heard all sorts of comments and concerns from parents and teachers. I will try to dissuade my colleague Mihov and all the other colleagues mostly through the experience I have of a longtime starting teacher. I'm not going to go into the details of what this evaluation is or the psychology of a child in the third grade. I will try with a part of a poem addressed to all mothers, a poem that we, the primary teachers, made the children study from the first to the third grade, to ask you and to try to make the most correct and informed decision. The poem was in honor of March 8th, the International Women's Day: Today is Mom's holiday, But what should I give her? A six necklace. I'll give it to her for this day. Let all students do what I do. We teachers want this to be the sole motive for the student from I to III grade to receive A's and that to be the joy of his parents. Indeed, there will be quantitative assessments in the upper classes. There will be quality assessments here that will make the relationship between the teacher and the parent at this difficult, fragile age, much more agmented and for the benefit of the child. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u375	Second line? I won't. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u376	Mrs. Kotseva, thank you for the line. I won't be specific. We've been having this debate for a really long time. I'm gonna take the liberty of being a little private. My little daughter had such a song she was extremely happy with that day that she already had a notebook in the second grade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u377	Thank you, Mr. Mihov, for not quoting another poem. [[crowd cheering in the hall.]] Mr. Glauchev and I remembered another poem. Any other MPs? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mihov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 76 MPs: 11 against 30, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 118 by importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes art. 120 on the Commission report. Vote 75 MPs: 67, no objection, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u378	Under art. 119 has a proposal from the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 119, which becomes Art. 121. "Section VIII" "Completion of a class, stage and degree of education". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VIII.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u379	Statements? I won't. We vote Anblok Art. 121 on the Commission's report together with Section VIII and its name Please vote. Vote 80 MPs: 77, none, abstention 3. The two proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u380	Under art. 120 has a proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: Article 120, para. 3 to acquire the following version: A student from the first grade at the initial stage of primary education continues his studies in the next class, regardless of his annual assessments of the studied subjects. Proposal by Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs in art. 120 para. 3 is deleted; The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Stefani Mihailova and Borislav Veliev, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 120, which becomes art. 122: Art. 122. (1) A student shall complete a successful class if he has annual evaluations of at least an average (3) and shall be included in all study subjects or modules provided for in the school curriculum for the relevant class in mandatory and optional classes. (2) A student successfully graduated from a certain class shall continue his studies in the next class. (3) A student in the initial stage of primary education shall continue his studies in the following class, regardless of his annual assessments of the studied subjects, if he is trained in a daily, individual, remote or combined form and his age is relevant for that class or exceeds it, but not more than three years.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u381	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u382	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In this way, our proposal must be compared with the wording of the importers. In practice, our proposal would like to revise the proposal of the importing students from the initial stage between I and IV grade of primary education to continue their studies in the next class regardless of their annual evaluations, i.e. whether they meet the required standards for children to pass from I to IV class, even though they have poor grades. We propose that this principle be applied only in the first grade in order to keep children in school. Next, give teachers the opportunity, setting poor grades, to repeat the classes between second and fourth grade. What motivated our proposal? It is motivated by a number of meetings with educators who work with children in difficult areas, with children with difficult opportunities for socialization and development in primary education, which show difficulty in acquiring knowledge in the first and fourth grade. Our proposal enables these children to be detained at school and, if necessary, to repeat the school year, but to learn the basic knowledge needed to continue in the course above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u383	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, we will vote on Mr. Mihov's proposal and a group that the Commission does not support. Vote 77 MPs: 13 against 40 abstentions 24. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 77 MPs: 8 against 54 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 122 in its version of the Commission report. Vote 77 MPs: 66, against 5, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u384	Article 121 supposed by the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimira Anastasova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 121, which becomes Art. 123: Art. 123. (1) A student who has an annual assessment of weight loss (2) shall take an examination to change the assessment of the study subject or module under conditions and in order laid down by the state educational standard for the assessment of the results of the students' studies. (2) In the cases under para. 1 student who has failed or failed the evaluation exam repeats the class.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u385	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 123. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The proposed text has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u386	Article 122 "Proposition of the National Representative Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of Members of Art. 122. For students from the I grade who have an annual assessment, as well as students from the II and III class including those who have an annual assessment of the weak (2). Further training is organized during the summer vacation under conditions and in order determined by the order of the principal of the school. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Stefani Mihailova and Borislav Veliev, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 122, which becomes Art. 124: Art. 124 (1) Students from I to III class, including those who have not mastered the competences set out in the curriculum for the relevant class, as well as students from IV class, who have an annual assessment of weight gain (2)......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (2) For the students under para. 1, with the exception of those who have been trained in their own form, additional training during the summer vacation is required under conditions and in order determined by the order of the principal of the school. If necessary, further training may continue during the following school year.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u387	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 79 MPs: 9 against 53, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 124 in its version of the Commission report. They voted 83 MPs: 69 against 9, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u388	Article 123 The proposal of the National Representative Krasimira Anastasova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 123, which becomes Art. 125: Art. 125 A student of the XII grade who has an annual assessment of the weight loss (2) shall not repeat the class by one or more educational subjects or modules. It may take examinations to change the assessment without restrictions on the number of exam sessions under conditions and in order determined by the state educational standard for assessing the results of the students' training. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 124, which becomes Art. 126: Art. 126. (1) A student with special educational needs does not repeat the class. (2) For the training of a student with special educational needs, who has an annual assessment of the weak (2).................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (3) In the cases under para. 2 when an individual study programme is not developed for the student under the subject of the study, which has an assessment of weak (2), he shall, in the following academic year, take an examination to change the assessment of this study subject. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 125, which becomes art. 127. Article 126 The proposal of the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 126, which becomes Art. 128: Art. 128(1) Students who have completed their studies in I, II and III class shall be granted a certificate of completed class. (2) Outside the cases under para. 1 completed training in a particular class shall be certified by a student's licence. Art. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 127, which becomes Art. 129. Art. 128 The proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 128, which becomes art. 130: Art. 130. (1) Students who have successfully graduated from the 7th grade shall acquire primary education, which shall be certified with a certificate of primary education. The certificate gives the right to continue training to the next degree of education, as well as training to acquire professional qualifications. (2) Students under art. 120, para. 7, graduates in the 7th grade, receive a certificate of completed 7th grade, which gives them the right to continue their studies in the 7th grade and vocational training.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u389	Statements under Article 125 to 130, including the Commission report? I won't. Anblok we vote member from 125 to 130 including...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u390	The vote shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u391	We're in voting mode. We'll vote separately, colleagues. Vote art. 125 on the report, 127, 128, 129 and 130 including on the Commission report. They voted 91 MPs: for 89, against 2, no abstentions. I shall put to the vote art. 126, on which there are no proposals made between first and second readings, but there is a request to be voted separately. Vote art. 126 in its version of the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 80 against 1, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u392	Article 129 "A proposal from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In the case at hand, the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall become paragraphs 2 and 3 respectively. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 129, which becomes Art. 131: Art. 131. (1) Students who have successfully graduated from grade X shall be certified for the completion of the first high school secondary education stage, which shall give them the right to continue their studies in the second secondary education stage and training for the acquisition of professional qualifications. (2) Students under art. 120, para. 7, graduate from the X class, receive a certificate of completed X class, which gives them the right to continue their training in the 19th grade and vocational training. (3) Students under para. 1 and 2 which are also trained to acquire professional qualifications, except for the document under para. 1 and 2 shall also receive relevant documents issued under the terms and conditions of the Vocational Education and Training Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u393	Statements? I won't. We are voting on Mr. Zablyanov's proposal and on a group which the Commission does not support. Vote 87 MPs: 12, against 63, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the main text of art. 131 on the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 72, none, abstention 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u394	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 130, which becomes Art. 132. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 131, which becomes Art. 133: Art. 133. (1) The acquisition of secondary education shall be certified with a diploma of secondary education, including the total success. The diploma for secondary education is final and gives the right to continue education or vocational training. (2) The adults under art. 132, para. 3 except for a secondary education diploma, they also receive a certificate of professional qualification. Under the terms and conditions of the Law on Vocational Education and Training, they shall also receive a licence for the professions for which such a licence is required. (3) The person may, at his request, receive a European application to the certificate of professional qualification and/or an application to the diploma of secondary education in a foreign language..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u395	Statements? I won't. We vote Anblok Art. Art. 132, Art. 133 on the Commission report. They voted 84 MPs: 83 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u396	Article 132 supposed by the National Representative Ivan Cholakov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Art. 132, para. 2 after the words "Executive art" to place a comma and add a "Physical education and sport." Proposal by the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 132 the words "History and civilization" are replaced by "History." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 132, para. 2, the Union......................................................................... and the words................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs: Art. 132(1) is amended as follows: Art. 132. (1) The compulsory state mature examination of the subject of the study is the subject of the Bulgarian language and literature which is subject to study content, studied in the compulsory classes at the high school stage of secondary education. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by after the word "Philosophy" is added "Horeography." the words "second high school stage' shall be replaced by the words "in high school stage'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 132, which becomes Art. 134: Art. 134. (1) The compulsory state mature examination of the subject Bulgarian language and literature shall be applied to the educational content studied in the compulsory school hours in the second high school stage of secondary education. (2) The second mandatory state mature examination under art. 132, para. 2 is based on a study subject chosen by the student from among the study subjects Foreign language - English, French, German, Italian, Spanish or Russian, Mathematics, Informatics, Information Technology, Physics and Astronomy, Biology and Health Education, Chemistry and Environmental Protection, History and Civilizations, Geography and Economics, Entrepreneurship, Music, Fine Arts and Philosophy, if the student studied it in the elective classes as a profiling subject in the second secondary education stage. The state mature examination shall be carried out on the educational content of the compulsory modules of the profiling study subject. (3) The State examination for obtaining professional qualification under art. 132, para. 3 shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Law on Vocational Education and Training.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u397	Statements? Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u398	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, it's just a matter of speaking right here. I would love to save time at the end of the day, but I would compromise myself as a history teacher if I didn't defend my thesis that a history and civilization class should be called a history. I won't argue long and wide about what history is and what civilization is. I would only say that there is no university in which there is such a program or such a discipline. History and civilizations. I would just ask a rhetorical question: if we remove both parts of the story from civilization, what will remain in one part? Can history exist if it is not the past of human civilization? And vice versa. This is an argument that is very easy to understand. It is true that this subject has been introduced in sync with the other objects, but it is clear that in the other subjects we have clearly defined spheres Unfortunately, I have not been able to persuade my colleagues in the Commission, but I am obliged to try to convince you of my rightness as a historian. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-17.u399	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. We vote. Firstly, the proposal of Mr. Ivan Cholakov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 81 MPs: for 6, against 4, abstention 71. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Mihov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 88 MPs: 13 against 5, abstention 70. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 79 MPs: 8 against 57 abstentions 14. The offer is not accepted. Now we vote art. 134 in its version of the Commission report. Vote 89 MPs: 75 against 1, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Here, once again, we will break this Law, as the time of the plenary sitting expires in seconds. Communications on Parliamentary Control on 18 September 2015, 11:00 p.m., Friday: 1. The Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski will answer three questions from the MPs Svetoslav Belemezov, Dimitar Dubov and Manol Genov, Slavi Binev and two questions from the MPs Slavi Binev, and Svetoslav Belemezov. 2. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer four questions from the MPs Svetoslav Belemezov, Willi Lilkov and Petar Slavov. 3. The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev will answer a question from the MP Stanislav Stanilov. 4. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer a question from the National Representative Ivan Stankov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova, to a question with written answer from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to five questions written by the MPs Petar Slavov [[two questions]] , Svetoslav Belemezov, Vyara Tzerovska, and Chavdar Georgiev; - Minister of Culture Vezhdi Rashidov to a question from the National Representative Ivan Kirilov Ivanov; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to a question from the National Representative Antony Trenchev; - Minister of Agriculture and Foods Desislava Taneva to two questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, and Kircho Karagyov, shared with Mrs. Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to two questions from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, and Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the responses to: - a question from the National Representative Magdalena Tasheva to the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova; - five questions from the National Representative Maya Manolova to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov, to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova, to the Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva, and to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov. Due to a prior commitment of an international nature, the meeting for parliamentary control will not be attended by Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev, Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova, and Minister of Health Petar Moskov. Due to a preliminary official commitment to the parliamentary control meeting, Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will not participate. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov will not participate. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva will not participate. The total number of questions and questions for tomorrow 9 questions and 2 questions, required parliamentary time I'm adjourning the plenary session. Tomorrow a regular meeting will be held at 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
