ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. Please register. Abort registration. 2nd attempt 11:00 a.m. (11.12 p.m.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u2	Please, registration procedure. Abort registration. Third, final attempt, 11:30. (11.31 h) Colleagues, please register! Abort registration. There's no quorum. I'm calling an extraordinary chairman's council. Following the Council's decision, there will be subsequent experience if the Conference of Presidents so decides. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who participated in the registration not to leave the National Assembly. (Discovered at 12.31 p.m.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u3	Colleagues, on an extraordinary Chairmanial Council, the positions of the leaders of the parliamentary groups of BSP left Bulgaria and the DPS are that the quorum is the duty of the parliamentary majority. The majority leadership has assured me that there are enough MPs to be able to open today's plenary session. Registration mode. There is a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[Ringing. Awesome.]] A few messages. At its meeting, the ABB Parliamentary Group has elected Ms. Mariana Todorova as Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group, respectively listed in the register for the leadership of the group and in accordance with the procedure under our Rules, I am obliged to inform the Chamber. On 24 September 2015, by letter from the President of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, an interim report was received by the Commission on the progress of the programmes financed by European Union funds and the countries of the European Economic Area during the programming periods 2007 - 2013 and 2014 - 2020. [[Representatives from the DPS enter. Line on the right.]] According to the letter, the report is available electronically in the section "Documents" on the website of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. The letter is sent by e-mail to all Members of the National Assembly, and those who wish can also get acquainted with the report on paper in the Library of the National Assembly. In the manner of conduct, Mr. Mestan. [[GERB lines: It's gone, isn't it?]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u4	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen! My procedure is the way I conduct myself. Madam President, you violated the Rules of Procedure with the fourth attempt to assemble a quorum with today's sitting. You know the Rules don't give you that right. But there's also good news in all of this. It seems to me that you felt the sweetness of the golden finger of Attack. They provided you with the quorum. Thank you. Remember: things are coming back. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u5	Mr. Valeri Simeonov for a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! At an election rally of the DPS in the town of Isperih on 26 September 2015 the party president Lutvi Mestan once again demonstrively and fully consciously violated the provision of the Election Code under art. 181, para. 2, which states that election campaigning cannot be carried out in any language other than Bulgarian. In view of the repeated violation of the same provision in the last two years by the same MP, it is evident that it is a demonstration of the failure to comply with the law, which gives an example to the electorate of the DPS that Bulgarian laws do not have power and action on the political leadership of the DPS and from there to the electorate of the DPS. This is a rude violation of statehood, legality and ethnic peace, as the act in question demonstrates non-compliance with equal compliance with the law and that it does not apply equally to all ethnicities. This act became known to the Bulgarian public as a result of widespread media coverage and normally provokes a wave of discontent among our society. Since the leader of a parliamentary political power violates the law demonstrably and repeatedly, what kind of legality could it be? The behaviour of DPS leader Lutvi Mestan undoubtedly sets ethnic tensions and goals against ethnicities in order only to achieve election results by igniting tensions and encapsulating Turkish ethnicity. We insist on the implementation of the law in all its burdens, all the more so that it is a repeated and deliberate violation, which aims to destroy the fragile stability of the Republic of Bulgaria under the conditions of increasing instability in the region. Long live Bulgaria! This text that I have read to you has been formed as a signal to the Central Election Commission, and I invite all MPs who share our views on this issue to sign. Thank you in advance! [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u7	Declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u8	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Today's first item on the agenda is the second reading of the Law on Education, but we have just witnessed an explosion of ignorance and unenlightenedness. On the occasion of the accusations that we have just heard, I would like to tell you that every medium-educated Bulgarian citizen knows that precisely under the Bulgarian Constitution, international treaties ratified in constitutional order have priority over domestic legislation. The right to use mother tongue is governed as a natural inviolable right in the European Convention on Human Rights ratified by the Bulgarian Parliament in constitutional order and ergo has priority over domestic laws, including the Election Code. In this sense, I refer to my rights under the European Convention on Human Rights, I refer to my rights under the Bulgarian Constitution. But this is the purely formal side of the question. The truth is that the President of the DPS and all the candidates of the DPS conduct their campaign in the official Bulgarian language, while occasionally allowing them to turn in a few words and in our language, especially when it comes to September 23rd, Madam President, the European Language Day. This day is not for a reason defined for a day in languages, because for Europe language difference is wealth and not a problem for the national security of the countries concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, from this tribune, the MP is to declare against the right of Lutvi Mestan or any member of the DSS Parliamentary Group to greet its constituents in their mother tongue on the occasion of the sacred religious holiday of Kurban Bayram is equal to the same MP to declare against the right of the ethnic Bulgarians of the Western suburbs to greet their voters in our, Bulgarian language and to be obliged to do so in Serbian language. Do you call on candidates for mayors and MPs from the Bulgarian national minority in the Western suburbs to greet their voters not in Bulgarian but in Serbian? Do you want the same from the Besarab Bulgarians from Moldova and Ukraine? Is that your patriotism? It's anything but patriotism! And I can't help but think of Botev's ingenious revelation: Patriot is a soul giving, but not its soul, but the soul of the people! [[Applause from DPS.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, what we have to do with our internal minorities, we have the same respect for Bulgarian minorities abroad. It is high time for Bulgaria's forty-third National Assembly to see the simple fact that Bulgaria is the only country of the European Union that imposes such absolutely unacceptable, not to say They are foreign to the 21st century, during which multiculturalism is a natural state of societies in all countries. So much for that. However, I am waiting for the answer to the question: is the one who asks Mestan to greet his voters on the occasion of the biggest religious holiday of Kurban Bayram, not in his mother tongue, asking the representatives of the Bulgarian national minority abroad? Does he call on the authorities from Serbia, Moldova and Ukraine to impose these restrictions on our Bulgarian brothers from these countries? In addition, I take occasion from this yet another attempt to provoke hysteria to tell you that on September 23rd the leadership of the DPS and the members and sympathizers of the DPS, who participated in the opening of the election campaign of the DPS in Isperih, sang with a foreign performer the most patriotic Bulgarian song about Raina Knyaginya. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are truly patriots, you will at this moment interrupt the speech of the President of the DPS with violent applause. Because there's nothing better than the DSS voters of their own to sing the song about Raina Knyaginya, because the Byraka made by her is our flag as well. [[Applause from DPS.]] We're all under this pool. And that on the same melody there is another song with another text is the natural state of the Balkan folklore. This is not a cause for hysteria, but I think it is rather a reason to enjoy folklore wealth in the Balkans. I'm not saying it. The great Akad said it. Nikolai Kaufman. There are studies that are good to read, other Bulgarian folklore researchers said. But I will no longer engage you with the scientific conclusions of the Bulgarian folkloreists, I repeat the Bulgarian folkloreists because I am a politician and not an enlightener. By way of exception, however, I will provide you with bibliographic information. It is good to know to stop making hysterics about what should rather be a source of unity, of unity. I conclude with a wish for a tolerant campaign and declare that we will respond with more songs of aggression, with Bulgarian patriotic, revival songs. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u9	Come in for a procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 4, para. 1 of the Rules on the procedure for the discussion and adoption of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, which refer to art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the deadline for proposals between first and second readings for amendment of the Constitution to be extended by another three weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u11	A counteroffer? I won't. We are voting on the procedural proposal made to extend the period between the first and second votes on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution. Voted 108 MPs: 103, none against abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Mr. Bajraktarov's procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u12	Bayraka, Bairaka.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u13	Madam President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, because it is unacceptable from the platform of parliament to demonstrate ignorance and attempt to mislead for the Day of European Languages, [[DSS and DSS lines]] , not a European language day, as an attempt was made by an ignorant person to be instilled.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u14	Without personal insults, the process may qualify, but the personalities do not.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u15	When ignorance is being preached and even more so, when once again an attempt is made to divide the Bulgarian society, making fun of a famous patriotic song, such as Raina Knyaginya's song, and embodying it with some Raine-mine, and I don't know what...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u16	What do you suggest to me, Mr. Bayraktarov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u17	...to take precautions on time and to put an end to such statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u18	Here, do it now. [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u19	Let's continue with: THE SECOND READING OF THE LAW ON PRE-SCHOOL AND SCHOOL MOVEMENT. I would like to remind you that on Friday, art. 280 with all the proposals of the Members of the National Assembly to him. In debate mode under art. It's 280. Are there any MPs who wish to take part in it? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Milen Mihov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 98 MPs: 9 against 15, 74 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on Mr. Nayden Zelenogorski's proposal. The Commission does not support it. They voted 93 MPs: 13 against 8, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 5 against 62, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. Now we vote art. 282 in the version of the Commission's Report on the same. Vote 81 MPs: 76, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u20	Under art. 281 has a proposal from the MP Mariana Todorova. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Chapter XVI, Section I, art. Upon request of the Commission, the Member State concerned shall submit to the European Parliament and to the Council a report on A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 281, para. 1, t. 5 words for personal development shall be replaced by the words for development of abilities or for support to children and students. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 281, which becomes Art. 283: Art. 283. (1) The means of supporting equal access and support for personal development shall include: 1. student scholarships; 2. transportation of children and students; 3. purchase of cognitive books, textbooks and study kits for free use and for the school library; 4. full-time organization of the school day and feeding; 5. activities related to general support for personal development; 6. activities related to additional support for personal development; 7. activities related to student recreation and sport; 8. implementation of school programs to prevent school drop-out and reduce the number of early leavers; 9. support for students with prominent gifts; 10. other activities helping to enhance the scope and equal access to education. (2) For children of compulsory pre-school age and for students from settlements where there is no kindergarten or school, funds shall be provided from the state budget for transport to the nearest kindergarten or school which conducts training in the relevant group or in the relevant class and vice versa. (3) The funds under para 1, item 3. 1, 3 and 9 are also provided to private kindergartens and schools. (4) The resources for the implementation of the activities of resource support for children and students with special educational needs shall be provided to the kindergartens and schools in which they are trained. (5) Where kindergarten or school cannot provide resource support according to the state educational standard for inclusive education, the funds under para. 4 shall be provided to the relevant municipality for the organisation of the resource support by the Centre for Personal Development Support, respectively to the Centre for Special Educational Support in the cases under art. 195 in the territory of the municipality concerned or for award under the conditions and under the terms of art. 198. (6) Where the municipality cannot provide resource support according to the state educational standard for inclusive education under the conditions of para. 5, the means of implementing resource support activities shall be made available to the relevant regional support centre for the inclusive education process. (7) The means of carrying out the activities under para. 1, t. 5, 6 and 10 may be made available to persons under art. 18, para. 2 and 3 of the Social Assistance Act, which received a license to provide social services for children under the Law on Child Protection in the order of art. 198, para. Two and three. (8) The terms and procedure for the allocation of funds under para. 1 shall be determined by the Council of Ministers for State Budget Funds and/or under the funding rules of the relevant European Fund or Programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u21	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Ms. Mariana Todorova's proposal. The Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 75 MPs: 5 against 6, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. Vote 74 MPs: for no, against 66 abstentions 8. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 283 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 74 MPs: 68, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u22	Under art. 282 has a proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 282, para. 1 the words "the support for personal development" shall be replaced by the words "the out-of-school centres." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 282 is created a new para. 2a and the other paragraphs shall be renumbered: The number and titles of the national education development programmes shall be approved by the National Assembly every year until 30 February. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 282, which becomes art. 284: Art. 284. (1) The funds for the development of kindergartens, schools and centers of support for personal development shall include: 1. costs for improving the material base; 2. means to improve the quality of training; 3. means for development and support of pedagogical staff under art. 219, para. 5; 4. Library information provision; 5. other costs aimed at improving the physical environment and the educational process. (2) The funds under para. 1, t. 2 shall be provided to kindergartens and schools with high or low educational results and shall be used as follows: 1. from kindergartens and schools with high educational results.. at their discretion for additional funding of their activities and/or for the promotion of pedagogical specialists; 2. from kindergartens and schools with low educational results...... to implement programs or separate measures to increase educational results. (3) The funds under para. 1, t. 2 provided for kindergartens and schools with low educational results shall be spent after a pre-approved allocation by the chief authorising officer with a budget and shall not be used for the remuneration of pedagogical specialists. (4) The educational results under para. 2 shall be determined by a methodology established by the State Educational Standard for the financing of institutions. A mandatory element of the methodology is the results of the training and assessment of the inspection. (5) The terms and procedure for the allocation of funds under para. 1 shall be determined by the Council of Ministers for State Budget Funds and/or under the funding rules of the relevant European Fund or Programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u23	Statements? Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I will have to take the debate back a little bit during the time when we commented and made a proposal to include funding for improving the qualification of Bulgarian teachers. Still, if memory serves, Minister, it's in effect and Regulation No 5. Isn't that right? It's nice, I'm not going to tell you Decree No. 5, but I'm going to try to explain to you in an understandable language what we want from the teachers. We want, colleagues, teachers to increase their qualifications in order to be able to carry out quality education for our children. But what's really going on? The Bulgarian teachers pay for raising the qualification in the first, second, third degree, within about a thousand leva. The increase in their salaries from this increase in qualification is expressed by about 20 BGN. monthly. The Bulgarian teacher puts his own thousand leva in order to be useful to the children, to be useful for the quality of education, but the investment by increasing the pay is practically meaningless and demotivating the Bulgarian teacher to increase his qualification. Isn't that right, Minister? I'm glad you agree with me. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 282, acquiring a numbering 284 of the Commission report, in para. 1, t. 3 means of development and support for pedagogical staff under art. 217 on the old numbering, now 219, para. 5, which means possible provision of means of transport if the teacher travels from another locality, or accommodation money. It is good to remind you, honourable Members, that just a few days ago we adopted the Law on Medical Institutions and in art. 92 and 93 in this Law explicitly, despite the insistence of the Ministry of Health to cancel these members, we of the Commission, as well as you, Members of the National Assembly, rejected this proposal, and it provides for the precise provision of funds to finance the Bulgarian doctors to increase their qualifications, as well as practical skills. I ask you today: how is it that the Bulgarian teacher is different from the Bulgarian doctor that he does not have the legal possibility, regulated in law, to provide funds for his improvement of qualification? With what? Therefore, my lady, I am proposing and I hope there will be reason, because the last few days I have received dozens, not to mention hundreds of calls from Bulgarian teachers from all over the country. 3 to para. 1 "after the number
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u25	You propose the text to become a means of development and to assist pedagogical staff under art. 219, para. 5...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u26	..and to increase the qualification of the same....that is to say the pedagogical staff. In other words, it should be regulated that funds should be provided to improve the qualification, because once we adopt the Law on School and Pre-school Education, Decree No 5 will most likely be cancelled, or it will have quite another meaning, and I highly doubt that if we do not mark this moment in law that such a thing will be foreseen there. Not to mention that in the context of delegated budgets, I seriously doubt that funds will be provided and I think the Ministry will support this proposal because it is in favor of the Bulgarian teachers and the Bulgarian children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u27	First line, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Many respectable and highly educated Mr. Bajraktarov, I recommend you not now because you are possessed by emotion, but after the shorthand protocol of this meeting is drawn up, take your speech, read it, think about one expression - the number 5 and then check the correctness of this expression - the number 5 and when it comes to numbering of regulations, whether there is a more correct expression. But I said I'm not an enlightener, I'm just telling you that you need to do this check yourself, because this is the most direct path to development. Not to be given knowledge, but to acquire it yourself. And that should be the goal of the entire education system. However, I fully agree with your thesis that Bulgarian teachers should be so prepared to give proper high education to Bulgarian children. I agree with this thesis with the agreement that it is about not repeating the mistakes of the educational process, which you are a product of, because if it were not for these mistakes, it would probably save you the extreme humiliation of correcting me for the correct expression...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u29	About what?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u30	For the correct expression I used.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u31	It's not correct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u32	Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's Language Day, not European Languages. And after my colleague Stanislav Anastasov gave you the perfect thing to do, you found no courage to apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u33	You?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u34	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u35	Please no dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u36	That's a line, it can't be a dialogue, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u37	But not in the whole room.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u38	I graduated. It's nice, read your statement, think about it one more time. And now you have the floor for another exit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u39	Second line? There probably won't be a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u40	Thank you. Madam President, dear Minister! Dear Mr. Mestan, I don't know what psychic abilities you possess to know what my emotional state is, first. Secondly, I'm sure you don't even know the product of which educational system I am.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u41	I can tell.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u42	But I will use an expression of my highly educated grandmother, who died at the age of 94, and I will try to paraphrase it so that it does not sound rude, because I do not think that the stands of the National Assembly are a means of clarifying personal relationships, and it is that.. Silence is gold.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u43	It's nice to apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u44	As for what you call me to apologize for, I would advise you to watch the film lost in the translation. It is a good film and shows how it is wrong in translating from one language to another to find out what correctness is.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u45	The movie's about something else.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u46	But he didn't understand the movie either. [[The National Representative Lutvi Mestan is leaving the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u47	Secondly, I would advise you to review your shorthand and find out that September 23rd is not the day you pointed out. The day is September 26th. I didn't mean to humiliate you there.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u48	Colleagues, we have more important things to do today.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u49	Yes, more important business, I agree, Madam President. What is delightful is that, after all, Mr. Mestan accepts my arguments, my proposals as important, and that is more important.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u50	Take a look at the movie.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u51	And I hope she comes back to vote and support them, along with her whole group, which is like a phantom: she's there, she's gone, she's gone, she's gone, she's gone, she's gone, she's gone, she's gone, she's gone, she's gone, she's gone, she's gone, she's gone, she's gone, she's gone, she's gone, she's gone, she's gone, she's gone, she's gone, she's gone, she's gone, she's gone, she's gone, she's gone, she's gone, she's gone, she's gone, she's gone. [[Radio.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u52	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. Members of the National Assembly, please enter the Chamber. I ask the majority groups that have successfully passed the quorum for today to be polite in the House for a second reading, respectively a second vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 77 MPs: 1 against 57 abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. We vote on Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal for an addition to art. 284, para. 1, t. 3 of the Commission's version. Vote 74 MPs: 10, against 4, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I want a re-vote because I feel that many of you do not understand that this two-word supplement is for the benefit of Bulgarian teachers and Bulgarian children. We don't have to show some stubbornness just because it's not proposed by one person, but by Bayraktarov and reject it. Nowhere is the Law provided for specific provision of funds and funding for improving the qualification of the Bulgarian teacher! On the contrary, we impose an obligation on the Bulgarian teacher to increase his qualifications and at the same time he must pay out of his pocket! There were also texts in which we want an attestation of the Bulgarian teacher during a certain period of time, which is related to improving his qualification! I do not understand: why should we put these people on their knees and not give them the opportunity to provide funding through the Law?! That's what I want to do! We place a ton of obligations and, at the same time, no opportunity to provide funds! I ask for your support in the re-voting because it is a useful proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u54	It's a re-vote. Vote 79 MPs: 14 against 9, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 284 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 76 against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u55	Article 283? a proposal from the National Representative Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 283, which becomes art. 285: Art. 285. The funds under art. 283, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 284, para. 1 may be provided on the basis of complementary standards or regulations for a child or student determined by the act under art. 282, para. 1 and the number of children and students. In these cases, the provision of art. 282, para. 13. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 284, which becomes art. 286: Art. 286. (1) The funds from the state budget for national programmes for the development of education shall include the expenditure from the state budget for the implementation of national measures and activities whose objectives cannot be achieved to the desired extent if they are financed within the framework of the funds under art. 280, para. 3, p. 1, 2 and 3. (2) By means of the means under para. 1 can be encouraged to develop and support the financing of municipal education development programmes where measures and activities under the national programme suggest that they be planned, organised and implemented most effectively at municipal level. (3) Programs under para. 1 shall be approved by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u56	Statements? I won't. Anblok, we are voting on the Commission report with numbers 285 and 286. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u57	Article 285. Proposal from the National Representative Mariana Todorova. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Chapter 16, Section I, Article 285 is repealed. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 285 "3 "7" is deleted. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 285, which becomes art. 287: Art. 287. (1) The funds from the state budget for the maintenance of the education and training activities of children and students in private kindergartens and schools shall be determined by the budgets of the municipalities on whose territory their headquarters is based on standards for children and students and the number of children and students. (2) The funds received by the municipality by standard shall be distributed between private schools and kindergartens included in the state funding system on the basis of the number of children and students. In these cases, the provision of art. 282, para. 13. (3) With the funds received from the state budget, private kindergartens and private schools shall finance only the activities of training, education and socialization of children and students appointed by the act under art. 282, para. 2. (4) With the revenue from the activities for payment under art. 10, para. 3 as well as revenue generated on other grounds in private kindergartens and private schools cannot finance expenditure for activities financed by State budget funds. (5) For the funds spent under para. 1 and under art. 283, para. 3 private schools and private kindergartens keep separate analytical reporting. (6) The private kindergartens and private schools shall draw up and submit periodic cash statements on the costs in order determined by the Minister of Finance and by the Minister of Education and Science. (7) The unused funds from the subsidy to private kindergartens and private schools within the current year can only be used to finance the same activities next year. (8) Upon termination of the participation of private kindergartens or private schools in the state funding system or upon termination of their activities, the unspent funds of the state budget shall be reimbursed under conditions and in order laid down by the state educational standard for the financing of the institutions. (9) The municipality and regional management of education shall exercise control over expenditures from private kindergartens and schools from the state budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u58	Statements? I won't. We vote on Mrs. Todorova's proposal. The Commission does not support it. They voted 71 MPs: for 7, against 7, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. Vote 77 MPs: 1 against 65 abstentions 11. The offer is not accepted. Now we vote art. 287 on the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 73, against 5, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u59	Under art. 286? a proposal from the National Representative Mariana Todorova. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Chapter XVI, Section I, art. 286 is out. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 286, which becomes art. 288: Art. 288. In the event of a violation of the regulations carried out by the private kindergarten or private school included in the state funding system, as well as in the case of low educational results defined by the methodology under art. 284, para. 4, the provision of State budget funds shall be suspended until the infringements are resolved under conditions and in order laid down in the State Educational Standard for the financing of the institutions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u60	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Ms. Mariana Todorova's proposal, identical to the proposal of Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, for dropping out of art. 286. That's their offer. The Commission does not support it. Vote 80 MPs: 8 against 42, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 288 in the version of the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: 74 against 7, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u61	Under art. 287 supposed by the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 287, para. 3, the words "the support for personal development" shall be replaced by the words "the out-of-school centres." The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 287, which becomes art. 289: Art. 289. (1) State and municipal schools shall implement a delegated budget system which shall give the principal of the school the right: 1. a minor authorising officer with a budget and in the municipalities with a regional division of a minor or a third-level authorising officer with a budget by decision of the municipal council; 2. make compensated changes to the profit and loss plan, including between activities, and inform the chief authorising officer by budget thereof; 3. to dispose of the funds of the school; 4. determine the number of staff, individual remuneration, teaching workload and number of groups and classes, as well as the number of students in them according to the established budget of the school and the rules laid down in the regulations, ensuring the implementation of the curriculum. (2) The senior authorising officers with a budget shall delegate the rights of the directors of schools to make their own revenue by providing them with the State or municipal property they use for management in cases where they do not have those rights under a regulatory act. In exceptional circumstances, the right to realise revenue from the State or municipal property used by schools may not be delegated where it constitutes a relatively territorial unit having self-accounting for expenditure and does not form part of the school's activities. (3) The provisions of para. 1 and para. 2 shall also apply accordingly to kindergartens and personal development support centres where, at the decision of the chief authorising officer by budget, they apply a delegated budget system. (4) The senior authorising officers with a budget may not finance expenditure of institutions outside the system of pre-school and school education at the expense of the funds provided to them under art. 280, para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u62	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly "The Commission does not support it. Vote 72 MPs: 4 against 55, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 289 on the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 78, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u63	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 288, which becomes Article 288. 290.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u64	We vote. Vote 77 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u65	Under art. 289? a proposal from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 289 words "The Public Council" shall be replaced by the words "School Board." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 289, which becomes art. 291.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u66	Report and art. 292.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u67	Under art. 290 "A proposal from the National Representative Irena Kotseva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 290, which becomes Art. 292: Art. 292. (1) In cases where no funds under art. 280, para. 3, p. 1, 2 and 3 or under art. 282, para. 21, t. 1, 2 and 4 the Minister of Education and Science may propose to be imposed on the chief authorising officers provided for by art. 107 of the Public Finance Act sanctions for the corresponding amount of default of the school's budget, kindergarten or support centre for personal development. (2) In the event of a reduction of the budgetary relationship of the chief authorising officer with a budget with the central budget as a result of the application of para. 1, the funds released may be made available under the budget of the school, kindergarten or personal development support centre concerned, which has not received the transfer due by the chief authorising officer with a budget as a transfer through the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science. Under art. 291? a proposal from the National Representative Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 291, which becomes Art. 293: Art. 293. (1) The own revenues of the state and municipal kindergartens, schools and centers of support for personal development shall be: 1. the income from the rental of real estate and movable property; 2. income from own agricultural land and forests; 3. the proceeds from intellectual property rights; 4. the revenue from the realization of production and services from practical training; 5. the proceeds from donations and wills; 6. other revenues determined by a regulatory act. (2) The senior authorising officers with a budget may not reduce the amount of funds from the state or municipal budget determined under the terms and conditions of this Law on State and municipal kindergartens, schools and centers of support for personal development at the expense of their own income. Under art. 292 "A proposal from the National Representative Milen Mihov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the National Representative Irena Kotseva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 292, which shall become Article 292. 294: Art. 294. The additional funding under art. 282, para. 21, t. 3 shall be granted: 1. by decision of the chief authorising officer by budget, under the terms and conditions laid down by him; 2. for classes with a number of students below the regulatory minimum defined as size with a sub-legal regulation; 3. for payments due by institutions implementing a delegated budget system within the current year, such funds shall be reimbursed under the budget of the senior authorising officer by budget at the expense of the budget of the institution implementing a delegated budget system for the following year, under the terms and conditions laid down by the authorising officer by budget. Under art. 293 has a proposal from Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 293, which becomes art. 295: Art. 295. (1) In the event that the overdue debts of a state or municipal school, as well as a state or municipal kindergarten or a personal development support centre applying a delegated budget system exceed 20 per cent of the established annual costs, the Director shall be liable disciplinaryly under the order of the Labour Code. The proposal for disciplinary punishment shall be made by the funding body. (2) In the cases under para. 1 within one month of exceeding, where a disciplinary penalty has been imposed, the Director shall draw up and implement a programme for cost optimization and overcoming the deficiencies validated by the funding body. Under art. 294 The Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become art. 296.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u68	Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u69	You're not from BSP, are you?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u70	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Since this is one of the most important laws for the state, and the quorum is very fragile at the moment, I am interested in whether it will be saved by the Golden Finger (Golden Finger) again, as you do not accept absolutely any constructive criticism in viewing this Law. So let's see the golden finger. I'm authorized, and I'd like a name-check on behalf of the group. [[Strong noise in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u71	Mr. Mirchev, your request is untimely. I didn't announce a vote. You're moving too fast. When I announce the procedure, you will take the floor again. [[Applause from GERB.]] Statements on these texts? I won't. The debate is closed and the vote is pending. Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u72	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I am doing a re-vote procedure to see the Golden Finger. [[Laughter]] . Wrong, name check! I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u73	Come on, fix it. What do you want last? [[Lowered noise and lines in the hall.]] A reverse opinion? You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva. I think that the colleague is not in the leadership of the group and is not entitled to ask for a name check, because under our Rules of Procedure, a name check is required only by the management of the group. [[Applause from GERB.]] I suggest you do not put this proposal to the vote. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB. People's representatives Mihail Mikov and Atanas Merdjanov appear in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-29.u75	The leadership is entering the room. Please have a member of the management confirm. [[The National Representative Mihail Mikov says that Mr. Mirchev is duly authorised.]] On the mike, Mr. Mikov! On the mike! [[People representatives Mihail Mikov and Atanas Merdjanov are leaving the hall.]] Mr. Mikov said that Mr. Mirchev is duly authorized. Name check! Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - absent Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - absent Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - absent Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - here Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - here Valentin Stefanov Vasilev - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - absent Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - absent Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - absent Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Vyara Mihaylova Tzerovska - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - here Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - absent Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Darin Ivanov Dimitrov - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Ivanova Yordanova - absent Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glavchev - absent Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - absent Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dimitar Hristov Zhelev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Zdravko Dimitrov - absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - absent Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - absent Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - here Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - absent Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - here Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Andonov Kotev - absent Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Dobreva Marinova - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - absent Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - absent Krasimir Petrov Petrov - here Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Krasimira Peneva Anastasova - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - absent Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov - absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bancheva - here Mariana Georgieva Todorova - absent Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - absent Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Maya Bozhidarova Manolova - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - absent Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - absent Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - absent Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - absent Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - here Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - absent Slavi Penchev Binev - here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - absent Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - absent Stefan Georgiev Kenov - here Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - absent Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - absent Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - absent Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yavor Iliev Haytov - absent Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - absent Ianko Alexandrov Jankov - here After the inspection, after the moment they were called, colleagues Atanas Atanasov, Borislav Iglev, Velizar Enchev, Valeri Simeonov, Nikola Hadzhiyski and Borislav Milanov entered. Currently there are 119 MPs in the Chamber. There's no quorum. I'm adjourned. Tomorrow is a regular sitting. Start time "9:00 p.m. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
