ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Today we continue with: THE SECOND READING OF THE LAW FOR DELEGATION AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CIVIL CODEX. There's a procedure before that. Here you go, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! On Wednesday, a decision was adopted in this House point one for today, Friday, to be our proposal to be the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the publicity of the property of persons holding senior public positions. Madam President, let us act as we decided on Wednesday, namely to examine this Law, which is actually something that a lot of Bulgarian citizens want, namely to lighten the incomes and assets of people who are in the media, of persons who are in sociological agencies, of persons who are in PR agencies. As for us every Bulgarian citizen can see our income and condition, so should we approach this group of individuals that I mentioned. Madam President, let's make our decision on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u3	Mr. Chukolov, it is true that on Wednesday on a proposal from your parliamentary group and held a vote in plenary, the draft proposed by you was included in the weekly programme. Neither in the written proposal nor orally in the Chamber is asked that this be a specific point, and where it is not explicitly mentioned by the requesting party with the inclusion of the item on the agenda, the general rules of our Rules require that it be arranged immediately before the parliamentary control. [[Replys from "Attacka."]] There is nothing to vote for that has already been proclaimed. Mr. Kirilov, I'm waiting for you for a GPC report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am reporting a proposal from the MPs Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Ivanov, Philip Popov and Kircho Karagyov: screated § 3i: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 470, para. 1 the expression "for the demand of the demand for the demand for the demand for the demand for or the demand for the demand The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u5	Statements? I won't. I am voting on this proposal, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 131 MPs: 28 against 45, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u6	Proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev: The following content is created § 3i: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: A new para. 485 is created. 2 with the following text: The starting price at the first public sale cannot be lower than the tax valuation of the property where such is determined. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u7	To speak, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u8	Honourable Members, Madam President! Yesterday's debate and vote in parliament have a huge response among Bulgarian citizens. I've been getting a lot more phone calls than after any other bill's debate. So there is an expectation that some of the proposals, which yesterday were not rejected, will be accepted today. Why is the imported text that was rejected yesterday important was proposed by BSP left Bulgaria and today we will discuss the same text proposed by the Reformation Block? What is the information about the people who are threatened by selling their properties? According to data from the Association of Commercial Banks for 2013 In the current period, there are 150 thousand mortgage loans in banks, of which 35 thousand are problematic.. there are problems with the service and repayment of the contributions, and 17 thousand mortgage loans are not serviced at all. These are 17 thousand Bulgarian families who will potentially remain on the street because their properties will be sold because they cannot pay their credit contributions to the banks. Seventeen thousand Bulgarian families! This text, which is proposed and if supported, will at least provide these Bulgarian families with the sale of their homes for unemployed loans not without money, not to be sold for yellow pennies properties that have served as collateral for bank loans and not to come to the situation where people, except that they will be left without their properties, without their homes, will remain on the street, but will continue to be debtors, that is to say, the human fates of thousands of Bulgarian families, in which parliament should take some kind of attitude. Some of the outrage that happens is also due to problems in legislation, and one of these problems is in cases where you took credit, mortgaged the apartment, you can't serve it, and at some point through a private court contractor the property goes on public sale. It is necessary, since you rejected our proposal to appeal the assessments, at least there are some rules to make private court contractors not sell them for pennies. One of the rules is in this text, namely that the property cannot be sold at an initial price lower than its tax assessment. You must have heard that there is a symbiosis between banks, private court contractors and rich people who buy out penniless debtors' homes. Do you want people to continue to destroy themselves, their families, to reach for suicides - their number in Bulgaria is the highest of all European countries. It's because of the huge spread, because of the huge poverty, because of unemployment, because at some point people took credit, put their assets on the line, had jobs, then lost it and lost everything. I beg you very much, you have rejected enough texts, at least for the text to regulate the sale of desperate debtors, to show some sensitivity, because what is happening in plenary is indeed being monitored by Bulgarian citizens. Yesterday wasn't a day we just talked in the wind. Behind all these texts are the human fates of your acquaintances, friends, voters. Tomorrow this could happen to you, too, to bet your home for credit, to sell it to you for free and continue to owe. To each and every one of you!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u9	- What's the line? Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! In addition to the arguments of colleague Manolova, I would like to make some more arguments to you as to why at least the initial tender procedure needs to go no lower than the tax assessment. You know that in our country tax assessments are permanently and permanently lower than the market, therefore in a procedure which is generally manipulative and in which the creditor or the private judicial contractor have a dominant position over the debtor, we must give some and market protection to the debtor in the sale of his property, provided that, once again, market assessments are permanently above the tax ones. You all know that! What does a market price mean? This means the price your buyer has given you at any offer. This is not a market price in an executive procedure. Find out this! Because we do not have a market in this procedure, we do not have n number of free proposals and n number of participants in the procedure. That price is always manipulative. Therefore, a normal protection must be given and it can only be the price previously determined by the relevant tax authority. I congratulate my colleague Slavov on this proposal. And although it is done by the reformers, we from BSP left Bulgaria will support it because it is in the interest of the debtor, and in the interest of the creditor, I would say it is not only in the one-sided interest. Knowing that these properties will be sold on a normal tax valuation would be in the interest of the creditor. They won't just win speculators, just the malfunctioning and malicious creditors who are just trying to take away someone's property. Therefore, I ask you to look into the meaning of this proposal and let us support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u11	Come in for a speech, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u12	Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! It does not matter in this Parliament who offers reasonable proposals.. whether it will be from the reformers, whether it will be from the Patriotic Front, GERB, Ataka, or the other parties, or the left. I do not understand why the Commission does not support this proposal, with the reformers' proposal being extremely sensible and honoring the left that it is ready to support it. I bet, fellow Members, in something else, the same proposal will be proposed after a while by the Council of Ministers and then will be supported. I don't understand why we're so narrow-minded about these things. This sensible proposal by reformers should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u13	A line? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u14	Honourable Members, Madam President! Dear Mr. Atanasov, I agree with this part of your speech in which you stated that reasonable proposals should be supported regardless of where they come from. Yesterday the same proposal made by BSP left Bulgaria was rejected. Now our hope is that, by supporting this proposal of the Reformation bloc as part of the ruling majority, we can gather more support, so that we, throughout our parliamentary group, are going to vote for.......................................................................... The only thing I would like to draw your attention to is that the famous bill of the Council of Ministers, with which the GERB Parliamentary Group speculates, does not contain any reliable rules for the property of citizens who cannot pay their loans, to be sold at real prices. There is no mechanism at all to say what the initial price should be, nor is there a mechanism for the debtor to be able to appeal the valuation of the real estate. It's one of the biggest problems of the court execution. The property is exported, sold for free, and you can't react, and when they sell it for free, you still owe it. That concludes your life because either way, with minimal income or unemployed, after they sold you your apartment, your property, you don't stand a chance anymore. There are some rules that need to be put in place, and that is one of the reasonable proposals. Let those in plenary once again appeal to hear what is spoken from the parliamentary stand. It is about the fates of thousands of Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u15	Second line? A hole, Mr. Atanasov? You won't use it. To speak, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u16	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! We will support this proposal [[Applause from RB]] with the clear awareness, however, that it is in part at the moment referred to the norm, that the Members may comply with it and have not been assessed with regard to the operation of the entire procedure. Our concerns will continue to be the following in the future.. Colleagues and Mrs. Manolova will argue: "The tax assessment is too low a base, it is not objective. Why didn't you take an objective criterion with regard to the actual market price? In order to save time in favour of protecting the debtor in such a performance and while considering, again, I say, the overall solution on these issues, yes, we accept that this is a way to establish such protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u17	- What's the line? Mrs. Maya Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u18	Honourable Members, Madam President! Dear Mr. Kirilov, obviously yesterday's debate was not in vain. You have heard some of our arguments and this is one of the small but a step in the right direction to protect debtors and citizens in difficulty. The overall solution to this problem would be achieved if, apart from declaring a starting price of an amount not lower than the tax valuation, the debtor has the opportunity to appeal the assessment where it is much lower than the market price. Unfortunately, you rejected these texts so that the debtor could appeal the valuation to which the private court contractor sold his property...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u19	We are commenting on the particular text, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u20	But that's something.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u21	At the third step of the stands, three times you bring us back to the debate of yesterday. There's a specific debate going on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u22	Yes, this debate has been extremely important and has obviously produced results. The citizens are watching him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u23	Enough with the citizens!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u24	No, Mr. Tsvetanov, enough with the citizens! Those citizens whose properties are sold for free are tens of thousands. And this debate is more important than any other debate we've had in recent months.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u25	You drove them there.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u26	So bravo, Mr. Kirilov, a small step, albeit a small step in the right direction!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u27	Second line? I won't. Would you like to use the backrest, Mr. Kirilov? I won't. Any other MPs? There aren't any. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev, which the Commission does not support, but those for full support were heard in the Chamber. We vote on the proposal of Slavov and Delchev. They voted 142 MPs: for 140, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u28	Proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev: == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: A new para. 487 is being created. 5. After registration of the minutes in the regional court, the declared public sale may be suspended at the request of the applicant only upon the explicit consent of the owner of the property, which has been submitted to the last day for submission of written bidding proposals. Renewal of the execution on the property continues at the request of the applicant, with the sale starting after a new sale. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u29	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Slavov and Delchev. The Commission does not support it. They voted 127 MPs: 53, against 5, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u30	Proposal from the MPs Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Ivanov, Philip Popov and Kircho Karagyov: == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 489, para. The second sentence of the second sentence is the expression "more bidding proposals" and is replaced by "only one bidding proposal" and the third sentence is dropped. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u31	Statements? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u32	Honourable Members, Madam President! This proposal is also reasonable and important, as was the previous proposal of the Reformation Block, which the House rejected. I expect my colleagues to defend their proposals. Somehow it's uncomfortable for us to protect them, even more of the proposals are identical. And in cases where I defend their proposals, the chances of them passing are much less. [[Laughter]] However, let us concentrate on what we are discussing right now. Our proposal is for the purpose of avoiding abuse in the conditions of public sale and gives each of the participants in the sale of real estate only one bidding offer. Otherwise you know that speculate is the same participant in the sale gives several bidding offers, then quit, depending on its final result, from the highest of them, and so the owner of the property whose property is sold on public sale is seriously damaged. This proposal is against the abuses that occur during the public sale. I think that all MPs who think wisely and have abstracted from the fact that the proposal was made by BSP left Bulgaria should support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u33	- What's the line? I won't. There are no other MPs to speak with. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Manolova, Georgiev, Ivanov, Popov and Karagyov. The Commission does not support it. They voted 117 MPs: 41, against 18, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u34	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, two proposals follow on one provision. Proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev: == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraphs 3 and 4 are created: In cases where the applicant is declared a buyer of the property and he does not submit the proposed price within the time limit, the claim shall be reduced by the amount of the claim. (4) In cases where a court has been declared a buyer of the property and it does not submit the proposed price within the time limit, it shall lose the corresponding part of the amount of the claim due to it in the case of distribution; this amount shall be distributed among the other courts. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Ivanov, Philip Popov and Kircho Karagyov: == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Points 3 and 4 are created: "3." where a claim is declared as a buyer of the property and it does not submit the proposed price within the time limit, its claim shall be reduced by the amount of the claim; 4. in cases where a court has been declared a buyer of the property and it does not submit the proposed price within the time limit, it shall lose the corresponding part of the amount in the amount of the claim due to it in the case of distribution; this amount shall be distributed among the other courts. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u35	Statements? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u36	Dear colleagues! Member of the Commission. - Madam President, this proposal also refers to the abuses that occur in the conduct of a public sale. Very often, the buyer who has given the highest price negotiates with the others, refuses his offer, which is the highest to enter into agreements with the next buyer to sell the property at a lower price. I think the loophole for this should at least be partially closed, and in this situation he will lose the task he has given to participate in the sale. The same hypothesis we have developed in a case where a joint property has been declared and one of the judges, taking part in the purchase of this property, abandons his bidding offer, which he has won and ultimately damages the other judges. I think these are fair proposals that should be supported. We have done them because of the problems that arise during the sale of real estate in the framework of executive production, and those of you who follow the texts must have noticed that our proposals are identical, one to one with the Reformation Block. Here I have to admit that in cases where we have important proposals that are reasonable, we do not mind being tabled by any representative of the parties by the ruling majority, because they then have a lot more chance of being supported in plenary, so I suggest that we vote on these proposals as follows: first we vote on the proposal of BSP left Bulgaria so that it can be rejected and then we vote on this in the Reformation Block, which may be supported, and we will vote with our entire parliamentary group on their proposal. I suppose that importer: Reformer block is more acceptable for GERB than importer: BSP left Bulgaria, and importer Petar Slavov is more acceptable than Maya Manolova, so support him at least. The proposals are important for Bulgarian citizens!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u37	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. The proposals are absolutely identical, which is why they will be voted at the same time, as it is the same proposal tabled by two groups of MPs, but the source of the editorial work is the same and this is undoubtedly the way they are written in the text of the Commission report. We vote on the proposals of the MPs in the order in which Mrs. Manolova wants to read them: Manolova, Georgiev, Ivanov, Popov, Karagyov, and Slavov and Delchev. The Commission does not support them. [[Noise and lines in the hall.]] Vote 117 MPs: 52, Against 8, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. Personal explanation from Mrs. Manolova. Now he's gonna explain who's writing their lyrics.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u38	Dear colleagues! Member of the Commission. - Madam President, for all those who are interested in the topic, it is clear who is the source. The source is the Bill of BSP left Bulgaria, which was submitted and rejected in plenary, one to one. Naturally, colleagues from the Reformation bloc are normal, adequate parliamentarians, and all the good proposals that have been rejected at first reading to bring them between the first and second votes, for which I thank them. Yes, I admit that we have worked together on a number of important bills such as tactics was usually: we import, and they import to have any chance of passing. Obviously, we need to change tactics: we need to stop bringing what we have to give to the Reformation bloc when it is important for citizens to have any chance of hearing from GERB MPs who do not care what the proposal is. It's important to them who brought it in. The author of this proposal is me and my colleagues. In the previous National Assembly, we have submitted the exact same bills. They did not enter the plenary because of GERB. Exactly the same text! [[Lowered noise in the hall.]] We have worked on these texts for days and with civil organisations and with experts on the subject, so these are proposals that have come out of our hands that have been suffered by the people who are waiting for people and it is very sad that you are thus profanizing the debate and deprecating both the problems of the people and the labor that we have put into these bills because it is work that is caused by the problems of the Bulgarian citizens. But obviously this is hard for you to explain. After that explanation, I also ask for a rewording of the text, because there is some theoretical chance that it will pass. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u39	Revoting, coworkers. To this day, I thought that in all democratic societies plagiarism is a morally reprehensible work, but today I understand that it is welcomed by the plenary and by the parliamentary platform. Revoting! They voted 118 MPs: 51, against 21, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. In the manner of holding Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u40	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, because I believe that you are taking more action than the Rules of the National Assembly, which we have all voted on here, allows you. You, as President of the National Assembly, can lead, give the floor, take the floor, make remarks and, if there is a way of conducting it, as it is now, take attitude from where you sit. All your other speeches, which are related to the substance of the actions, all the speeches that are related to whether there is a plagiarism or no plagiarism, which is also on the subject being discussed, are nice to do them from the parliamentary platform as a regular MP, as they do, because there, I tell you once again what gives you the right to do, to repeat it to you, so that you do not confuse it another time: to lead the sitting, to lead the votes, to give the floor, to interrupt, if someone turns away from the subject, to make remarks when there is a reason for doing so, to impose penalties when there are grounds for doing so and to take account of this when someone has taken the floor in the manner of conduct. All your other statements made from the place where you are sitting are abuse of power. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u41	I absolutely agree with you, Mr. Ermenkov. You are very right, but I am also human, and I am influenced by my stay at the forty-second National Assembly, and unfortunately, I may be misled by some practices that were imposed there and were a tradition, by the way the plenary sessions were held by Mr. Mikov and Mrs. Manolova. We'll continue with the report. I will correct myself, and I will no longer follow their example. [[Radio, laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u42	Proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev: A paragraph 3m shall be created with the following content: 3 m. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: A new para 494 is being created. 3: If, in the cases referred to in para. 2, the applicant requested the setting of a new starting price, the court contractor scheduled a new sale at a starting price equal to 90 percent of the starting price of the previous sale. For each subsequent sale the starting price shall be determined in the same way as applying paras.1 and 2. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u43	Statements? I won't. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Slavov and Delchev. They voted 119 MPs: 47, against 3, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u44	Proposal from the MP Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev: Paragraph 3n shall be created with the following content: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The first sentence of the first sentence shall be replaced by the one-year period from the entry into force of the allocation. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u45	Statements? Yes, of course. We're waiting for you, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I take the floor and take the occasion of the speech to draw attention to the House that here and in the previous paragraph there are no proposals of BSP left Bulgaria so that they are not misled by the fairy tales of plagiarism. Indeed, on some of the proposed texts we have coincidences or even coincidences, but as has been heard at one point in the many speeches, yet the source of many proposals is civil organisations, so let us respect the opinion of the people, as they do not only send to BSP left Bulgaria their proposals, to keep them in mind. Specifically on this proposal, I think it can be supported, as it has been done in the interests of clarity. After all, the allocation act must have entered into force and not be pending and there must be clarity as to what point the time limit is really running. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u48	Dear colleagues, from BSP left Bulgaria we will support this proposal because it is reasonable, this change is caused by the practice. Once again, I would like to stress that it does not matter to us who submitted the proposal. Here the authorship is entirely the Reformation Block. The colleague Peter Slavov has repeatedly made adequate, important and useful proposals under various laws that we have always supported. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I think that the real left and the real right in Parliament can give an example of how, when citizens' problems require it, we can vote together for their solution. For GERB, of course, this does not apply. As I have heard repeatedly from those sitting in the front row, they are not interested in citizens. For them it is important who imports, not what imports, and most of all other interests and other motives, which had obviously been seriously unleashed on this bill in order to reject important texts for both the monopoly of banks and private judicial contractors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u49	That's not the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u50	Mrs. Manolova, I would like to point out to you an insult to Members of Parliament in plenary. Come in, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u51	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! My point is that with these reasonable proposals on the left and on the right, if we reduce political speaking, you will see that much of them will pass. The truth is how you're going to insult a whole political power and then wait for votes from it. Well, that's not gonna happen. My request is on the left and on the right: for such sensible and pragmatic texts, if we reduce political speaking by at least one degree, you will see that many of these proposals will go to parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u52	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Is there a third line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Kircho Karagyozov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u53	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In a few words, I would like to motivate my attitude towards this text as a positive one, because as a person who is in practice, as a lawyer, I would like to say to you that in many cases when the price is paid and within this period there has been a complaint, regardless of who, until the distribution and until the entry into force of the complaint has been positive or negative, the amount paid is in an account which the successful tender cannot practically benefit from. It is therefore reasonable to propose that the price be imported only after it has entered into force and not before. I will support this proposal because it is purely practical and legal, of course, much more sustained than the text it now has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Karagyozov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev, which the Commission does not support. They voted 106 MPs: 50, against 2, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. Re-vote please, Mr. Slavov. Some colleagues have not been able to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm asking for a re-vote. It was seen that colleagues entered the Chamber and failed to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u56	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Please re-vote. They voted 108 MPs: 50, against 4, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u57	By § 4, the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u58	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 4, which becomes § 5, supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: 97 against 2, abstention 6. The text of the importer for § 4, which becomes § 5 of the Commission report, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u59	According to § 5, there is a proposal from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 6: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 622 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: The interested party may request the court to refuse recognition of the decision or to establish that there are no grounds for refusal of recognition on the basis of Regulation (EU) No 1215/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2012 on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters (OJ L 351/1 of 20 December 2012.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 121 OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes 3 and is amended as follows: The Court of Justice shall decide on the basis of a copy of the judgment given in another Member State of the European Union certified by the Court of Justice and a certificate where an act of the European Union so requires. The documents shall be accompanied by a translation into Bulgarian. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes 4 and is amended as follows: The Court of Justice shall rule by order which has the meaning of a decision in an action. 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u60	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 5, which in the Commission's report becomes § 6. Please vote. Vote 104 MPs: for 103, there is no abstention 1. The text of the Commission for § 6 of its report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u61	§ 6 was proposed by Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports it in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 6, which shall become § 7: .................................................... Article 3 is replaced Direct implementation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 1215/2012 Art. 622a. (1) A judgment given in another Member State of the European Union shall be enforceable without the need to issue an executive sheet. (2) The bailiff shall proceed to enforcement at the request of the interested party on the basis of a copy of the judgment given in another Member State of the European Union, certified by the court which ordered it, and a certificate issued pursuant to art. 53 of Regulation (EU) No 1215/2012. (3) Where the contractor finds that the measure or order cannot be fulfilled under the conditions and under the terms of that code, he shall establish a replacement execution. (4) A judgment given in another Member State of the European Union ordering temporary, including a safeguard measure, shall be enforceable under para. 1 and 2. In cases where the measure was ordered without the defendant being called to appear, proof of the delivery of the judgment shall also be provided. (5) When proceeding, the court contractor shall give a copy of the certificate under para. 2, with his service inviting the debtor to voluntary execution. A copy of the judgment given in another Member State of the European Union shall be attached to the certificate if it has not been served on the debtor. (6) The debtor may apply for a refusal of enforcement within one month of service. Where a translation of the judgment is required, the time limit shall cease until the debtor has been granted. (7) Each Party may appeal to the adaptation of the measure or order under art. 436.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u62	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor not in terms of the substance of the text, but in the way it was referred. Please read a little slower, I am very serious about this, because when it is read very quickly, it cannot be read in the texts. Please! Thank you. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u64	Are there any other statements? I won't. I shall close the debates and put to the vote the text of § 6 edited by the Commission, which shall become § 7 in the Commission's report. Please vote. Vote 97 MPs: 91, none, abstention 6. The text of Paragraph 7 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u65	Under § 7, the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 10. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u66	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer for § 7, which in the Commission report becomes § 8 and is supported by it, the text of the importer for § 8, which becomes § 9 and is supported by the Commission, the text of the importer for § 9, which becomes § 10 in the Commission report and is supported by the Commission report, and the name of the division Please vote. They voted 104 MPs: 98, none, abstention 6. The texts of the Commission report on paragraphs 8, 9 and 10 and the name of the subdivision have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u67	A proposal by § 10 was received by Slavov and Delchev, which was withdrawn. The following amendments and additions have been made by Manolova and a group of MPs in Transitional and Final Provisions: 1. Paragraph 10 is amended as follows: ..................................................... The proceedings pending until the entry into force of this Law are completed in the current order. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u68	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u69	Honourable Members, this is a Transitional provision that makes sense to the amendments proposed and adopted by you. There is no way that we in one production could have walked in one order, and now that the Law has entered into force with other rules, we should follow other rules. It is normal for procedural laws to complete the proceedings at the time of entry into force by the order in which they began. I ask my fellow reformers to support this proposal. I also ask the colleagues from GERB to support it. It's in the interests of the law. There's no politics here, we don't put any bias in the text. This is a purely legal and technical norm that gives the law the normal course of action. If we apply amendments to the Law to the welded proceedings, we will make legal chaos. So please support this proposal. It is in the interests of both the people, by the way, and in the interests of colleagues who conduct the proceedings, because there will be no confusion. Once a production begins, it must go its own way by the rules under which it began. That's the point of the provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u70	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Maya Manolova, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Ivanov, Philip Popov and Kircho Karagyov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 35 against 16, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u71	Mr. Chairman, I personally couldn't vote, so I'm asking for a re-vote. [[Replying and shouting.]] The machine didn't work. I raised my hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u72	It's a re-vote. They voted 105 MPs: 41, against 42, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I submit the text of the importer for§ 10, supported by the Commission, which acquires numbering § 11 in the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u73	Vote 97 MPs: for 94, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u74	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u75	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 11, which becomes § 12 on the Commission report. They voted 103 MPs: for 103, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u76	Proposals by the Members of the National Assembly Maya Manolova and a group of Members of the National Assembly are created § 11a: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. For decisions which entered into force before its adoption, the time limit referred to in art. 305, para. 1, t. 6 and so on. 7 starts from the date of entry into force of this law. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the Members of the National Assembly Manolova and a group of Members of the National Assembly shall be created § 11b: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Within one month of the entry into force of this law, the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank and the Minister of Justice confirm the requirements of the Single Environment for exchange of electronic supports. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the National Representative Manolova and a group of Members of the National Assembly is created § 11c: d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. (1) The Council of Ministers shall issue the act under art. 446 para. 1 within three months of the entry into force of this law. (2) Until the entry into force of the act under art. 446 para. 1 The retention shall be carried out in compliance with the current restrictions. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u77	Statements? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u78	My fellow Members, Madam President, I understand the hidden intention of Mrs Atanasova's three texts to be proposed together in order to be rejected together with one vote. I'd like to draw your attention... [[Reply from the National Representative Krasimir Velchev.]] What do you want, Mr. Velchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u79	Please, you are given the floor of speech, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u80	I can't speak normally since they haven't stopped yelling since yesterday. [[Noise and lines.]] Make a remark to Mr. Velchev from yesterday screaming from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u81	Order, please! My note is to everyone who calls from place to place. [[Reply from the National Representative Krasimir Velchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u82	And it goes on. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u83	Mrs. Manolova, go ahead. Colleagues, please, let's give Mrs. Manolova a chance. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u84	Mr. Velchev took care of his tablet, so I can talk.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u85	I've got to keep my nerves up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u86	Colleagues, please don't go into that line! You don't contribute anything to the debate that way.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u87	My fellow Members, I would like to draw your attention to the proposal that we have made to give the Governor of BNB a period of time and to the Minister of Justice to establish requirements for the Single Environment for exchange of electronic supports. This complex written proposal has its particular meaning. This is what we're talking about. At the moment when a debtor falls into enforcement proceedings, usually the first action taken by the court contractor is to impose postures on his bank accounts. Since there is no information in which banks exactly have bank accounts, it shall issue binding messages to all known banking branches at least on the territory in which the execution process takes place. In such situations, the following happens. The judicial enforcement fee is 15 BGN. VAT - BGN 18 The imposition of thrusts in only ten banks makes the fee to a private court contractor 180 BGN; 20 banks - 360 BGN. This is usually the easiest enforcement action and even the obligation of 20 leva. The private court contractor is putting all the bank accounts on hold, and so the debt of 20 levs, after these supports are imposed, becomes 380 levs, if you send protective messages to 20 banks. What we have adopted in the previous changes of the PDK is the instrument of enforcement, i.e. by one action of the bailiff, to impose a burden on the debtor's accounts in all banks. Then he will only owe 18 leva. That he had all his accounts secured instead of due BGN 360. For example, for postures in 20 banks. This is one of the possible abuses of private court contractors because it is clear that 20 leva. You can collect without imprisoning everything to the debtor and without taking 360 leva. This text exists as an opportunity in the GPC, but since the head of BNBanka and the Minister of Justice have failed to fulfil the commitment to create the so-called 'Single environment for the exchange of electronic leverages', i.e. a link to a single action in the bank accounts of a debtor in all banks, I suggest that we give them a one-month period within which to fulfil this obligation. In this way we will relieve thousands of people who are on minimum salaries, who because of some obligations to the ERP, mobile operators, cable TVs, heating, 20-30 to 100 BGN. Finally, they pay a final amount in times greater than the original debt. That's a reasonable offer. I ask you to refrain from being made by the opposition and to support it, because it is really reasonable and will force the head of BNBanka and the Minister of Justice to do their job.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u88	- What's the line? Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u89	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Manolova, we hope so, but I don't think so. You have missed the debate in the Legal Committee on this issue, claiming authorship the original proposal from three years ago of colleague Emil Radev and the then group, which was not accepted in the last parliament. Then there was a strong resistance of the team of the Ministry of Justice and Deputy Minister Sapundjieva. In the debate of the Legal Committee, as representatives of the Ministry of Justice were also present, I almost ritually asked them to swear that this time this one-month period, which lasts for more than three years, will still have action and will eventually unite the efforts of both the Ministry of Justice and the National Banka to make the order in question. Otherwise the deadline is there, the obligation is over three years, but the regulation is gone. The amount is BGN 580, not BGN 360. On the occasion of the protective message you showed here yesterday, one of the likely reasons for increasing the size of this protective message is BGN 580. for the posting fees. We will support this proposal, which, again, I say, is to my colleagues since the Forty-first National Assembly and has been signed by my colleague Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u90	Second line? Hole, Mrs. Manolova
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u91	Honourable Members, Madam President! Dear Mr. Kirilov, I have not heard any argument against this proposal which is different from what I have put forward, so I will agree with you. The only dispute between us again is about who is the author of this proposal. If this will make you give your vote for the candidate, yes, I would say that the author of such a proposal was Mr. Emil Radev, who was a member of GERB, is now a MEP. This proposal was then adopted, it appears in the GPC. A deadline was given to the head of BNBanka and the Minister of Justice to fulfil this obligation. They didn't do it. I think we need to remind them again because for the head of BNBanka it is clear that he is the same as three years ago, it will not be a very long time, but the Minister of Justice is relatively new and perhaps this reminder that he has a commitment to the debtors will do his job. I see no problem in supporting this proposal. Maybe it'll get the Attorney General to do his job. Vote, pretending that the author of this proposal is Mr. Emil Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u92	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. In contrast to Mrs. Manolova's proposal, I will put to a separate vote, as it is about different texts for new paragraphs of the importing.. 11a, 11b and 11c so that the Members of the National Assembly can and will be oriented in the supported § 11b how to be voted. I put to the vote the proposal of Manolova and a group of MPs to create § 11a, which the Commission does not support. Colleagues, the support received in this House shall be with regard to the next § 11b. Three separate paragraphs are to be put to the vote. Abort the vote! They voted 107 MPs: for 28, against, 30, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the paragraph of controversial authorship from three years ago for the creation of § 11b. The Commission does not support it, but in this House is supported by Mr. Kirilov. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. I put to the vote the proposal to create § 11c of Mrs Manolova and a group which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 21, against 38, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u93	Under Paragraph 12, a proposal from the MPs Slavov and Delchev is made in the text of the importer for § 12: 1. In the proposed text of art. 23 of the Law on Protection against Domestic Violence, the words from the Sofia City Court are replaced by the district court of its permanent and current address. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u94	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of colleagues Slavov and Delchev, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 33, against 17, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 12 which becomes § 13 on the report. They voted 102 MPs: 95, none, abstentioned 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u95	A proposal has been made by the MPs Slavov and Delchev in the Transitional and Final Provisions to establish § 12a with the following content: 12a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62b of the Consumer Protection Act the following amendments shall be made: 1. The text so far becomes paragraph 1. 2. New paragraphs 2 and 3 shall be inserted with the following content: It shall be prohibited for traders to require the consumer to pay the cost of concluding contracts in a form more severe than written, except where such form is required by the law, including the establishment of collateral. In such cases, the need to conclude the contract in a certain form shall be justified in its text. (3) For the costs of a transaction concluded in violation of the rule of para. 2 is real, the user can obtain an Order for immediate execution under art. 418 PPC from the district court at its permanent or current address. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u96	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u97	Thank you, Madam President. I take the floor to withdraw this offer. Its purpose was to correspond with the amendments proposed by the Reformation Block to art. The GOC's 417 and 418, in connection with the immediate implementation and orders for immediate implementation by which the banks can supply themselves. That is, in order not to replace the means of extracting an executive list immediately, on the basis of an extract from their accounting books, with similar contracts with a notary certification which also enjoy this privilege. I mean, his point was in terms of those proposals, but they didn't go along. Therefore, I withdraw the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u98	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Are there texts further back that are related? [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Slavov, are there texts back so we don't read them?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u99	Madam President, it is the same for the next § 12b. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u100	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u101	Under § 13 a proposal was received by the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev: In the transitional and final provisions, a new § 13 shall be established with the following content: ...... 13............................ 13. Within two months of the entry into force of this Law, the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank and the Minister of Justice confirm the uniform standard and requirements of the Single Environment for exchange of electronic supports. The Commission does not support the proposal. [[Reply from MP Petar Slavov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u102	You're withdrawing him. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u103	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u104	Statements? I won't. We vote on the Commission's proposal supporting the text of the importer for § 13, which becomes § 14. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 105 MPs: for 101, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u105	There has been a proposal from the National Representative Maya Manolova and a group for the creation of § 13a: .... 13a.............................................................................. In the Labour Code (Obn. The following amendments shall be made in SG...: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 210, para. 4 the expression "Civil procedural code" is replaced by the act of the Council of Ministers. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 272, para. 2 the expression "Civil Procedure Code" is replaced by "Act of the Council of Ministers." The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u106	Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u107	Honourable Members, Madam President! This is another proposal which will probably be rejected by the plenary, by the majority, but at least be aware of what you have rejected. At the moment when a debtor remains in a situation where he cannot pay his debts and gets to a bailiff, what the bailiff does is, apart from putting him on hold of bank accounts, and in cases where he doesn't have one, he has to keep his wages. Since the text that defines the parameters in the GPC was written in 2007 in which you could be guaranteed the wage, so that you could survive, then it was consistent, and the size of the unsuccessable property, with the then poverty line, with the then standard of living, and especially with the then minimum wage, which was 200 leva. Now the minimum wage from next month will be 380 BGN, so it is normal that the props that are imposed on wages are on a size that is lower or higher in terms of the income that you have left, compared to 2007. It is not a good practice in law at all, and even less in a code to determine the amount of non-secessable income, because the situation is dynamic and what was relatively fair in 2007 is no longer fair in 2015. But as far as I understand the majority's attitude is to remain, that is to say, that people should be taken away from them such amounts of wage and that remain those that make their experience impossible. Unfortunately, with arguments yesterday, we didn't convince you otherwise. By the way, an example of what happened after wage hikes was also the woman who had come to parliament yesterday. [[Noise and lines.]] After securing the woman's wages today, she had to be taken out of the apartment of a public sale, where she was looking at her two children, but you did not want to reduce the fees of the court performers, nor increase the non-secessible minimum, so this will continue. [[GERB lines.]] You can't write a complaint against an obligation of 180 leva. it has become approximated BGN. And the bailiff is about to collect it. The only thing you can do is to support financially that you can do, because the private court contractor has to collect adequate leva, which the woman cannot pay. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Well, get involved, we're engaged as far as we can help this woman. I've got 20 complaints from women like that. I will give you, dear Mrs. Atanasova, and you Mr. Kirilov, a few of their lives. If you don't want financially, at least as lawyers, you can help them. Once again, the cause is impossible without legislative changes, without reducing the fees of judicial execution, and you rejected these options yesterday. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u108	For a cue Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Manolova! The second day of endless heartbreaking and sincere, I believe you, you are talking about the problems of debtors and about this debt of all of us is how to make their problems easier. Before that, however, in front of the clamp, we need to be aware of who acquires the quality of the debtor. Is this not that citizen or citizens who have received loans from banks and these loans are the deposits of hundreds of thousands of other Bulgarian citizens who have correctly entrusted the bank to store their savings? When the second day you speak from this tribune about bad banks and good debtors, does this mean that you say to Bulgarian citizens: "Let's think about debtors who are incorrect to those who have given them loans so that they can secure a home or other purchases? And if there are no rules to and for bad banks, as you say, what do you offer us, Mrs. Manolova? To return the times of the Changing Offices, of the Magura, of the criminal way in which illegally or rightly distributed loans were collected. These times will not return and a guarantee of this are the strict norms that once govern the rules of the depositors in the banks and the way these funds are spent by the people they receive. Yes, I agree with you that there are texts that really do the forced execution in proportion to the size as was the previous text. There is no need, given that the citizen has declared where he works and it is known where, which account, which bank he is transferred to, the bailiff should impose on all possible banks a restraining message. You're right about that. Wherever you're right, we've complied and supported you. But don't, under the pretext of the debtors, let's not think about all those hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians who rely on the banks giving credit by then being able to recover these amounts. It's about your investments, too. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u110	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsacheva. Mrs. Manolova, for another line? [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u111	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mrs Manolova! Really for two days here, you only speak against the banks. Bulgarian banks are the best in Europe. They give loans with the best, highest interest rates for them and their shareholders. They earn at least 1 billion a year. What other sector has such a huge profit? They put your interest in the principal and make your loan unpaid. Please don't really talk so much about the very good Bulgarian banks. [[GERB lines.]] From them you will receive interest of 12 - 15%, and in Europe is 3. Keep in mind what you say about banks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u112	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Third line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, in short, what we were offered two days to the left was for the judges to stop collecting these small duties, as it would make no sense for them. In my opinion, what has happened to this woman, whom Mrs. Manolova mentioned for two days, is that the debt was very small, no one is looking for it and over time, with interest and with the accumulation of the fees, is received an adequate BGN, is the elementary account. This would follow all the small debtors if we had accepted what we had been debating all day yesterday. There are some works yes, very populistic, which is the specialty of the left. People, people, people. What about the other people who pay for everything on a regular basis?! To continue from yesterday I am burned, my car, yes, in the old days, but I am not going to cry to Maya Manolova that when I had money to give, let us change the law to simplify it for me. It's not serious stuff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u114	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Manolova, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u115	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ivanov, Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, Dear Members of the National Assembly of GERB! I'm sorry to say you didn't understand anything from yesterday's debate. In fact, the goons are not in the past, the mute behavior today is from the private judicial execution.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u116	They're in BSP.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u117	In part of the private court contractors who in two years can convert a debt of 180 BGN. in 1180, debt of 20 leva. in 500 BGN, a debt of 166 BGN In BGN 696. Here, I've got dozens of secure messages. [[shows documents]] of citizens. There's no interest to make your obligation for two years 20 times as high. There's no such interest! This is marauding on the poor Bulgarian citizens! [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u118	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u119	More than half of the Bulgarian population lives in poverty. As soon as you find yourself in a situation where you cannot pay an obligation, justice requires that you be given the opportunity to pay in a way that does not burden you in drastic proportions, in a way that allows you to continue living, not to be sold for free, and that you remain forever in debt. As for the banks that you, honourable colleagues of GERB, are defending, they have a huge privilege which you did not wish yesterday to take away from them so that they could convict each debtor without a trial, charge him a principal, interest, fees, in whatever sizes they wanted, without the citizen being able to defend himself. I have never supported the proposal that the debtors not pay their debts. What I supported was to have justice for debtors, to have a fair trial in which they could defend themselves. There are dozens of people's letters here. [[shows document folder]] They've been sold the property for debts they've paid off. These opportunities are given by the Law which you refused to change. I think yesterday's and today's debate is the most important debates that have taken place in this Chamber, within this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u120	What about the last one?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u121	You first let the citizens down, gave them some hope that these texts could be changed, then cut off that opportunity. I think you'll hear it from your constituents. What you did yesterday and today is against the interests of Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u122	Your time is up, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u123	And that will not be forgiven! [[Voices: "Eee!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u124	Thank you, dear Mrs. Manolova. Come in for a statement, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u125	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I suggest we get back to the specific paragraph we are discussing. In what was said by this tribune, it makes sense. And Mrs. Tsacheva is right. This dispute: to whom to give greater priority to debtors or creditors, is not just being held by us today, but being held a long time ago. It is normal for the left side of the room, supporting Keynes' ideas to claim that debtors should have more rights. It is normal for the right-wing side to support the idea that creditors should have more rights, since then it provides a better opportunity for economic development and society for those who believe in right-wing ideas. For this paragraph, I believe that Mrs Manolova is right and there must be some objective criterion to be respected, and it cannot be locked as a specific absolute amount, as is the case, and, on the contrary, the Council of Ministers must have the opportunity, provided that there has been a large deviation from what is necessary for the normal assessment of a family or subject to life support, to be corrected, of course, by complying with certain objective criteria and not staggering either to the left or to the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Chobanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MPs Manolova, Georgiev, Ivanov, Popov and Karagyov to create § 13a, which the Commission does not support. They voted 106 MPs: 40, against 21, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u127	There has been a proposal from Manolova and a group of MPs for the establishment of § 13b: supposed to be in line with the requirements of point (a) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009. In the Law on State Agency "National Security" in art. 107, para. 4 the expression "Civil Procedure Code" is replaced by "Act of the Council of Ministers." The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u128	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MPs Manolova, Georgiev, Ivanov, Popov and Karagyov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 101 MPs: 24, against 20, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u129	There has been a proposal from the National Representative Maya Manolova and a group of Members of Parliament to create § 13c: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the case in The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u130	Statements? I won't. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Manolova, Georgiev, Ivanov, Popov and Karagyov to create § 13c, which the Commission does not support. Vote 88 MPs: 20, against 24, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u131	There has been a proposal from the National Representative Maya Manolova and a group of MPs for the establishment of § 13d: .... 13.................................................................................. In the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 237, para. 2 the expression "Civil Procedure Code" is replaced by "Act of the Council of Ministers." The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u132	Statements? I won't. I close the debates and put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Manolova, Georgiev, Ivanov, Popov and Karagyozov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 20, 20, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u133	Under Paragraph 14, a proposal has been made by the National Representative Anna Alexandrova: § 14 to be dismissed. The Commission supports it. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 14 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u134	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 14. Vote 97 MPs: 83, against 10, abstention 4. The Commission's proposal to reject § 14 by importer has been accepted and the Second Reading Bill has also been adopted. Rest until 11:00 when we continue with parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u135	Honourable Members, Deputy Prime Ministers, the plenary sitting continues with PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 12 to 18 June 2015 A question came in from: - National Representative Angel Naydenov to Meglena Kuneva - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Issues, on the policy and actions of the government against Bulgarian citizens living in Ukraine. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 26 June 2015; - National Representative Ivan Penkov Ivanov to Tomislav Donchev - Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy, on a common policy and opportunities for special targeted support for the Northwestern region through integrated territorial investment. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 26 June 2015; - MP Nikola Hadzhiyski to Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture and Food, on the application of art. 10, para. 10 of the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 26 June 2015; - National Representative Dimitar Delchev to Todor Tanev, Minister of Education and Science, on the policy for the integration of ethnic minorities into the educational system and the results of its implementation. It should be answered in the plenary session on 26 June 2015. Written answers for service by: - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Meglena Alexandrova; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Jemma Grozdanova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to two questions from the National Representative Milen Mihov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Valentin Kasabov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovaliski; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to three questions from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov. Today, Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova is the first in the parliamentary control. Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister for Home Affairs. She will answer Mr. Volen Siderov's question about an incident at the polygon in Anevo. Mr. Siderov, you have the opportunity to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u136	Madam President! Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, my question is related to a tragic case that happened a few days ago at the polygon in Anevo. The media has spread the news that an American citizen died there with a grenade launcher in his hand. Despite the conflicting information at the beginning, attempts were made to explain that this is almost an American tourist who passed through there and wished to shoot a bit with a grenade launcher and stumbled upon poor materials, so to speak. Despite this, I would say, infantile and ridiculous information that has been provided to us, the truth has finally become clear, not elsewhere, but from the American Embassy. From there, they reported that the American citizen in question was involved in a training program of, they called them moderate opposition forces in Syria. I do not know how the moderation of these opposition forces is measured, that is, here we are talking about Islamic groups that are massacring Christians and Muslims already. We've shown this footage. The world is familiar with the atrocities they commit, but it turns out that American citizens are working on a training program. And in this regard, my question is: is it true that the American citizen who died at the Anevo polygon is a representative of the Pentagon and for which country did he buy the grenade launchers in question? Because he tested them most likely in order to purchase some amount of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u137	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u138	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Siderov, as you know, an investigation is ongoing on this case and every specific information we have on this investigation cannot be disclosed. What I can tell you is that we've identified the identity of those present at the time of the accident, the victims, the deceased. More information than that we have not had, and we have checked the contracts under which they were present at this polygon. That's what I can tell you. I can't comment on any other statements right now just because it hasn't been consulted with us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u139	The line, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u140	Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, the fact that an investigation is under way, I think it is not an obstacle to my question whether the American in question is an employee of the Pentagon, because it would also answer the question of what he is doing on this polygon, why he is experiencing weapons there, and is there any arms trafficking to the Middle East, where we know that American interference is causing the destruction of countries like Iraq, at the moment and Syria? This is very important to know because more than once from this tribune it has become a question that this outbreak of military conflict in the Middle East threatens Bulgaria. It's also in the service reports. This has also been said to the National Security Advisory Council with the President more than once that there is a conflict that is currently under way that threatens our security. We know very well that the so-called refugees who come here, these are actually illegal immigrants, are also the result of this conflict, so it is important for us as MPs, for the society also to know whether Bulgaria is somehow involved in this conflict. If I prove that the American citizen is buying weapons or in any way mediating to obtain weapons from these called opposition forces, in fact these are terrorists, this should also lead to the relevant note and at all to put the issue in front of the US state, because Bulgaria is thus involved in a conflict in which it definitely has no place. That's my definite opinion. I think most Bulgarians think so, and that is why we are entitled to know what happened. The fact that the investigation is ongoing at the moment, I remember many cases when there was an investigation and data from it were so distributed in all the media that there simply was nowhere to go. So, either there's a double standard, or you're afraid to say anything more so you won't get a waved finger from the American Embassy. Don't worry, they've already confessed from there, so you can just complete the information to be aware of what is being done, because this case is obviously part of some activity It is quite likely that we have also shown such data that weapons will also go to Ukraine, where there is also a conflict, and this is unacceptable for the Bulgarian national security. I'm not satisfied with the answer. I expect you to make an effort to give more real information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u141	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u142	Dear Mr. Siderov, I am not worried, I am following the Law, which says that art. 198, para. 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure states that the investigation material cannot be disclosed without the permission of the prosecutor. The information you are interested in is currently being specified and subject to the investigation itself, so one cannot be obtained. The fact that information is leaking in some cases is not a reason for all to have such leaks. Furthermore, the concerns you have expressed here are understandable, but they are unfounded. I can call on you not to draw too strong and big conclusions until we have confirmation of all the information.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u143	Next, a question to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov concerning indicators for successful absorption of European funds in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u144	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Statistics have recently been released, which shows that Bulgaria is ahead of Romania by the percentage of EU funds absorption, which is good news by whatever criterion to evaluate it. However, the deeper economic issue is the following: 1 million European funds invested in Bulgaria, what is the specific economic result in terms of created jobs, impact on private investment, impact on gross domestic product? That's how we need to start measuring things. Or put another way: for 1 million European funds invested in Bulgaria, is the effect comparable or better than 1 million European funds invested in Romania, Estonia or elsewhere in the European Union? This is a deeper approach to see the effect for the Bulgarian economy on the use of European funds, and where it is not good enough in our view, to make the necessary adjustments. After the financial crisis of 2008, we have a drastic decline in private investment.. not only in Bulgaria, this is a trend, unfortunately, in most Eastern European countries that joined the European Union. Against this background, European funds are becoming even more important and it is critical for all of us to have a mechanism to assess whether their use, their investment in Bulgaria is done in an effective way and leads to the necessary results, including especially for growth of gross domestic product and for creating new sustainable jobs. And if it is judged, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, that the effect on newly created jobs is not good enough, this can also specify the very criteria for project approval from now on, so let's focus here where we currently have a problem. Bulgaria currently has a problem with job creation, we have a problem with unemployment. For this reason, a clear emphasis on the work of the European funds can be precisely that of new, sustainable jobs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u145	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u146	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, the fact that Bulgaria has better results in relation to payments to Romania is not great news. I am rather proud that our country has better results in payments and in the parameters of control even for some old Member States such as Italy. For example, we are only two points apart from a country with such perfect administrations as Britain. But you are absolutely right, the volume of payments is not the most important indicator. It is important, especially within this year, when the old programming period ends, because the result will show how much money we have used, but that you have spent 1 million. Euros, as you said earlier, does not yet mean that you have done something good. In addition, the parliamentary procedure is dramatically insufficient to provide you with an adequate answer to the question. Just clarifying the methodological approach that is being used would take four or five minutes in the most modest case before we talk about getting to know the numbers. I will use the little time I have to mark points from the answer, but very soon, I hope, within a month, together with my colleagues from the Ministry of Finance, we will present the latest macroeconomic calculations we have in this direction. We invested in a mathematical model based on the system "Hermin" - the Bulgarian version is called "Sibila" - a few years ago. We periodically do calculations for past periods and simulations for future periods. At an event that is primarily oriented towards the expert audience, all detailed calculations for both past and future periods will be presented. A few methodological markers. The effect of EU funds is undoubtedly extremely strong, for a long list of reasons. In recent years, the volume of payments has been very increased, at the same time precisely during the crisis, the volume remaining public funds being invested is relatively modest. This further enhances the effect of money as a share of public expenditure in general and even more as a share of investment costs. According to the latest data, European funds are nearly 80% of all public investment costs made at all. Secondly, purely methodological, when we talk about effect, we are trying to calculate not the effect of the money movement, this is the most easily traceable effect, but the effect of the investment. The effect of money is rapid and short-lived, it disappears after a while. The long-term effect of the investment is. And thirdly, all of the methods we use for calculations are based on the comparison between two scenarios, which we have at the moment, with the payments made and the primary and secondary effects on the economy and the market and so on, against the effect that European funds do not exist or are gone or are stopped. That's how we calculate the effect. As I said just now, I am using the occasion to invite you, and very soon we will announce the date of the deliberate event, where in the smallest detail to an expert audience you will be able to familiarize yourself with our calculations.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u147	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Dimitrov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u148	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to agree with you at the same time and offer you an addition to the approach. You said yourself and this hall heard that 80% of the total investments in Bulgaria are currently from the European funds. Do you, colleagues, understand what this is about about the importance of the European funds at the moment for Bulgaria and that they should be spent in an effective way? I would suggest, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, beyond the approach you compare with what would happen in a situation where the funds are gone and what is the change in growth, employment and probably investment. I might add something else. I am convinced that countries such as Estonia, Slovakia, which can be described as good examples of handling European funds, make similar calculations and possibly have similar methodology. If we manage to use a methodology similar to theirs, we will be able to compare the average effect: whether they with 1 million European funds manage to make more of us in terms of employment, investment, growth and so on. That is, beyond what you are doing and what is absolutely right and justified, I believe that the comparative approach is the best in life. You can tell where you are, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, by comparing yourself to the others. Otherwise, if you compare yourself to yourself, to different scenarios of your life, to your country, you don't achieve the necessary objectivity. What I am interested in, and I am convinced that both you and the Bulgarian Parliament and the Bulgarian government, is Bulgaria investing European funds no worse, and even better than what other countries in the European Union do, which can only happen if we guarantee an annual comparison that shows us on every criterion where we are. If we are after the middle of the European Union, this will immediately be a signal. This may be a continuous monitoring system. If we are after the middle of each criterion, new jobs, an impact on private investment, an impact on the gross product, will be a signal that somewhere we can improve things and adopt a better approach to working with European funds. Please provide us in writing with the conclusions that you will reach. I hope you will accept the proposal that I have just made to you for an additional approach on this issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u149	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u150	Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I am giving an example of the latest available calculations made through the model "Sibila" to assess the impact of investments under the Structural and Cohesion Fund on the Bulgarian economy. They show that the effect of these costs as a value of the real gross domestic product, which is 5.5% higher for the period 2010-2014 compared to the scenario in which Bulgaria would not have such funds. In fact, a similar contribution is observed in almost all spheres of employment, levels of unemployment, higher, lower, private investments respectively. I have preliminary numbers for both old and future periods. Here's another example. As one of the most important effects of spending funds under cohesion policy in the country with a very positive long-term impact on the Bulgarian economy is increasing the volume of private investments at 20.8% at the end of 2014 and reaching almost 27% by May 2015 compared to the scenario in which there is no European funding. More importantly, however, it is another idea, your call to try to compare with other countries in terms of this indicator. I think this is possible for all countries that make such calculations as long as they are based on a similar methodology. We use one of the most massive, most common models, produced by the model Hermes. I think that at least one third of the Member States use a similar methodology. In this sense, a similar comparison is possible. There are, of course, some variables that could distort the picture, which could distort the volume of funds against gross domestic product. The conversation has become too expert. I accept your call. I will try, together with the experts working on the topic within this presentation, as well as after it, to seek not only the effect of money on the Bulgarian economy, but also compared to others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u151	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for your response and for your participation in today's parliamentary control. On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria for a statement there is a popular representative Rumen Gechev:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Yesterday, June 18th, in his speech at a round table on the legal framework for growth and employment in Bulgaria, Mr. Tony Thompson, a permanent representative of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, known more as the World Bank, published severe negative assessments about the state of the business environment in Bulgaria and especially about the work of the government and its institutions. He gave generalized assessments to foreign investors who are systematized, processed and verified by the World Bank. Mr. Thompson drew four basic conclusions based on these generalizations. According to this leading world institution, in order to survive, foreign investors must comply with four basic rules. I quote: Firstly, to avoid working with government institutions as much as possible, whether the government is a regulator or a client. There is enough evidence of unreliable and unpredictable government institutions according to business, Thompson argued. Second rule, to minimize contracts with anyone. If you file a lawsuit for a contract, the outcome is unclear. The third rule is to have a strategy to acquire those skills that are needed. Many of the companies have problems with lack of qualified people with the necessary skills. The fourth honest recommendation received from business is to avoid entering into relation with the strong on the day of the market, because, I quote: the people will make your life hell and throw you out of the business. The real state of the business environment in Bulgaria can be judged by another statement at the same forum, made by World Bank analyst Sirdhard Sharma. He clearly argued the problem of too much commitment between political power in Bulgaria and business. Quoting: This is the case when companies that are related to the authorities are becoming more competitive and their business is going better. When politicians lose power, the company's profitability collapses. Companies should feel protected by the law, not afraid that their business or property will be taken away. He set an example from a study that, if reforms are made, that is, there are no reforms to make business feel safer, gross domestic product per capita can be increased 5 times. The implementation of these reforms will improve the country's competitiveness and will lead to more stable economic indicators. Dear colleagues, the World Bank's messages in Bulgaria are more than categorical. With the recommendation to avoid working with the current Bulgarian government is published a sharp assessment of high level of corruption, low efficiency and pursuit of close political and personal goals at the expense of the effective functioning of the market economy in Bulgaria. Moreover, other than the World Bank experts warning businesses to stay away from the government, they essentially place a poor assessment of the so-called reforms, which apparently exist only in the media appearances of the government. The current government not only does not help the business and does not help speed up the petty economic growth of 0.9% compared to 2014, the last quarter, according to EUROSTAT data, but essentially the government hinders its development. The World Bank's assessment of the state of competitiveness and functionality of the market in Bulgaria is particularly worrying. The assessment that only companies operating under the political umbrella of power are competitive, multiplies the question.Which companies are making profits for the benefit of the ruling political elite? "It is scandalous that this leading institution recommends that foreign investors do not enter into joint business endeavours with such companies in power because they risk their business being stolen and the opportunity to receive protection from our judicial system is mildly questionable. These World Bank assessments find confirmation of the deterioration of key macroeconomic indicators on which economic growth depends in Bulgaria. In the first quarter of 2015, there was a tendency to decrease the volume of foreign direct investments. At the same time, domestic investments are shrinking, and according to National Statistical Institute estimates, business plans to reduce investments by more than 35% in 2015. World Bank estimates prove the purely propagandistic and misleading nature of government statements about some cheerful foreign investors and improvements in the environment for doing business in Bulgaria. This sound slap, which in a straight text reveals a high level of corruption and inefficiency of state institutions, as well as the delivery of market competition in open tolerance of selected companies close to power, practically confirms our assessments. Proves that they are real and that behind the marked pink mist of the present government there is nothing but low-quality propaganda. Ladies and gentlemen, with yesterday's speeches, which are no coincidence at all, they are measured, the World Bank never made random statements on the substance yesterday the World Bank fired the Bulgarian government to foreign investors. In this regard, let the government come out and say openly the reception or not accept these killer evaluations? What are his arguments of our government, and when will the real reforms that we all expect begin? If the government coalition four plus one cannot cope with the challenges, it is better to write its resignation and allow for the formation and implementation of real reforms leading to an effective partnership between business and government, a partnership leading to a competitive holding. The implementation of this unbearable delay is the only condition for attracting more foreign investment and for stimulating business. Without this, the Bulgarian economy will remain in the pliers of stagnation and roadlessness. Thank you. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u153	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. We continue with questions to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov. The first question is from the MP Jevdet Chakarov on solving problems in the field of child health. Here you are, Mr. Chakarov, to state your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u154	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues! In fact, this question was asked a few months ago, but I believe that it is currently up to date and the second question I am asking to Minister Moskov. Dear Mr. Moskov, the reason for my question became the tragic case of the 8-year-old boy who died on 28 December last year from the village of Ivan Shishmanovo, Razgrad district. The specific case was made public the information about the checks carried out by the authorities of the Ministry of Health on the infringements that led, unfortunately, to the fatal end for the sick child and to this tragedy. The case raised a very serious question about the state of child health in Bulgaria and the lack of enough pediatricians. In recent years, a number of leading pediatricians have alerted for serious reduction of pediatricians in Bulgaria and for the lack of those willing to specialize in Pediatrics. This is also the position of the National Pediatric Association as a whole. Such an opinion in the last few years expresses also Prof. Penka Perenovska, Head of the Clinic of Children's Diseases at the Sofia University Hospital, who fears that there is a risk that after 10 years we will be left with almost no pediatrics. That's the opinion of Assoc. Dr. Anelia Bueva "National Consultant for Children's Diseases, Nephrologer and also Head of Clinic at a Specialized Children's Hospital in Sofia. On 23 January this year, if we are to be correct, the media announced official statistics that currently pediatricians in the country are 1401, with children's gastroenterologists overall, I stress, only 9 for the whole country. Units are children's nephrologists and oncologists. It has been reported that the Ministry of Health is currently working on forming teams of doctors to provide the necessary specific assistance in areas for children with chronic diseases and disabilities, and that the measure should take place by the end of the year and will affect thousands of small patients, our children with cerebral palsy, diabetes and epilepsy. This, of course, is a step forward in a positive direction, but the big problem remains. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In this regard, my questions to you and the stated position that there should be a serious improvement in the quality of child and mother health: is there really a shortage of pediatricians in our country? What is the vision of the Ministry to provide good conditions for specialization and development of staff in pediatrics? Have specific measures been identified to address the very serious problems that we see from the case in the village of Ivan Shishmanovo should not be repeated. Such tragedies should not be experienced. For what time period could all these ideas and initiatives be realized? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u156	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Dr. Chakarov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The question and concern are absolutely justified. This is one of the major problems of Bulgarian healthcare. Let me open the clamp and say that the tragic case of the deceased child by Ivan Shishmanovo is not really due to lack of specialists on the ground, but to serious violations of the standard of surgery and serious violations of the organization in Razgrad Hospital itself, for which the appropriate measures were taken. I hope, based on the fact that there are no additional such incidents there, that the measures are working. I will not go along with the logic of the answer to this question - part of the facts that we have written are generally available and were part of your question. The answer to the question: if there are enough pediatricians, the answer is no. Indeed they are 1400, as in separate and targeted specialties practically we are deprived of specialists throughout the region of the country. What are we doing about this? One of the first things we did was an urgent change in the specialization regulation, the way young doctors get in there. Since last week again in connection with discussions with universities and associations of young doctors, in fact the state has already covered the fee of 180 BGN. monthly for specialties, which are kat anesthesiologists, pediatricians, pathoanatoms and so on. I am far from thinking that a young graduate student will stay and specialize in the majors such as Pediatrics because of BGN 180. or without them. However, this is a step forward. The real solution is actually in forming a state policy. If we all agree, whether we are opposition or governance, that this is a major problem, that this follows severe social, health and demographic problems, then we really need to get into the focus to restructure and refinance adequately the way pediatricians pay, the quality of treatment in pediatrics. This is part of the concept of the basic package, which, no matter how much we argue, we need to distinguish priorities. What we have done this year: we have introduced measures related to the introduction of individual clinical pathways for children with congenital heart malformation that, and in the opinion of national consultants, is a very important step for children's cardiac and thoracic surgery, as well as for prenatal diagnosis of pregnant women; we have increased the contingent of children for whom the NHIF will pay the prevention of chronic pulmonary diseases, except for children with bronchopopular dysplasia and for other premature children, as well as for children with congenital heart malformations. We are really going to a concept, it is also valid in the Law on Medical Institutions, which I hope next month will be accepted in parliament that these specific diseases, in the presence of a small number of specialists, should be united in centres equal to the territory of the country, so that there can be really complex and complete assistance there. At the beginning of the year, we introduced a working program for child and mother health. The Ministry's investment plan from own capital needs costs, for equipment over 50% is set aside for the repair of children's or obstetrics and the purchase of equipment for them respectively. Under the Norwegian Financial Mechanism, I think the final lotts will come out next week, we've planned mainly refurbishing with echographs, neonatatal equipment and peds equipment. The problem is clear. The decisions are as I tell you, but the cardinal decision is revalued and thus making young doctors attractive the specialty of Pediatrics.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u157	Mr. Chakarov, would you like a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members, it is clear from your answer, Mr Minister, that the problems in this area in children's health are very serious. You have confirmed that there are only 1,400 pediatricians, which is insufficient and you share this. The next steps really need to be taken. A positive step is the regulation that you have pointed out. Without taking on the role of a lawyer of young colleagues who will specialize in the Anesthesiology, we are doctors, both you and I, and in university clinics we know that the amount you have pointed out is hardly enough, but this is a step forward. I believe that there should also be correctness there. I will allow myself from the National Assembly stands to say that I have a view of how specializations take place in other leading countries. Let there be greater correctness there according to the possibilities. What we need to do is really the problems have accumulated over the years. In a year, two of them could hardly be overcome fully, but we need to have a comprehensive vision and, above all, you who form and implement policies. Naturally, we must be corrective and the ideas should be even with a sub-party consensus. As far as pediatrics are concerned, I believe that at this stage all that is being done is not enough, and it should be with a much more persistent search for a solution both you and all of us as a society, except that child and human health should be at the necessary heights, it is in the context of the demographic profile and crisis in which we find ourselves. This is another, larger, powerful imperative for all of us to find adequate solutions. I would ask you another question about the idea of building and functioning a multi-profile pediatric hospital. There was such an idea, even colleagues from GERB in the previous term had this idea, there were concrete proposals, there were even ideas and proposals to find such funds in the budget. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So, in addition, the overall vision of policies in the field of child care and human health, what is your vision to function, because we are one of the few countries that do not have such a leading, united, pediatric hospital complex? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Mr. Minister's doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u160	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chakarov, ladies and gentlemen, I share all the findings. Thank you for the proper assessment of what the government is doing in this regard. On your particular question about the possibility of building a multi-profile children's hospital. Let me say that the Ministry, respectively the government, has been taking many, many steps in recent months so that they can be implemented. Mainly is the financial plan of realization of this thing. I would not like to say anything in advance before I can say clearly: Yes, there is such an opportunity, this will be realised. We are quite advanced in negotiations with various potential investors, partners and so on, so that this thing can be realized because it really needs it. What will be the concerns inside.. whether surgical or therapeutic, this is a very specific question, but we are making a consistent effort in this direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u161	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. One communication to the Members of the National Assembly: Today, on 19 June 2015 it was received and is to be distributed to the MPs A general draft of the bills amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Registration adopted on the first vote on 17 June 2015. The project was drawn up by the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management on the grounds of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. We're continuing with parliamentary control. The next question to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov is again by the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov on solving the issue of qualification of doctors after obtaining a specialty. Mr. Chakarov, however, I would ask you to fit in in time, as other colleagues are also waiting to ask their questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u162	And thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Mr. Moskov, I am putting this question in relation to the speech of one of the leading doctors in our country. Vladimir Pillosoff. This time it will not be from the field of pediatrics, but will be common to colleagues, with a view to the speech of professor. Pilosof on January 7th this year on Bulgarian National Television. The vision is as follows: the doctors who graduate from medicine, then specialize, get a specialty, then their qualification and improvement, and upgrade of the specialty and courses for improving the qualification are not regulated by the leading entity, the Ministry of Health. Naturally, this should also be done in an active dialogue with the relevant word organization, in this case in the face of the Bulgarian Medical Union and the Dental Union. For years we have seen that all these specializations to a large extent I do not exclude those which are organised by the relevant medical institutions, but I believe that there is a need here to have a comprehensive vision and clear policies regarding the improvement of colleagues. I'm gonna let myself say it again here that, in this case, you and I, you and I are doctors who know what it means to be a doctor, to be a medic. If there is a fairy tale that says wisdom that a person learns all his life, this most applies to the doctor, to medicine, to upgrade and to respond to all the modern opportunities that provide us with the development of medical science, to technology. It's good for all doctors to know her. In view of this, my questions to you, Mr. Minister, are:.. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Is there a clear vision of how to improve, upgrade and have continuous training of fellow doctors, not in view of the fact that we do not have good specialists? We have many good specialists, but why shouldn't this be even wider everywhere, at all levels of both central and periphery in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Mr. Minister, for a response, three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u164	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chakarov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The formal side of the question. The continuing medical training of doctors is within the powers and competences of the Bulgarian Medical Union. This is according to art. 182, para. 1 of the Health Act. The word organization there writes that the organization is co-organizing, coordinating, conducting and registering the continuing medical training of doctors under conditions and in order laid down in contracts with higher schools and the Military Medical Academy. There is currently no regulatory requirement for adopting uniform state requirements for continuing medical training.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u165	That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u166	The single state requirements proposed by the Minister of Health of the Council of Ministers and adopted concern the acquisition of higher education in the specialities of the University of Medicine,........................................................................................... But this is the formal side of things. What you're saying is actually true, and the question is not whether we have footage to train young people, because there is no doubt about it. It's the organization of this thing. In this regard, I am obliged to inform you that in the last two weeks at the Ministry, under the authority of the Department and the Directorate, which is involved in qualification and postgraduate training, there is a working group, together with the Medical Union, together with representatives of universities, which is related to clearing and proposals to be laid down in the future changes of the Health Act, because there is the place for such changes. They have to be coordinated with the guild, because that's what's undoubtedly there. In this regard, we rely particularly on newly formed boards of specialists to the Bulgarian Medical Union, where they are leading medical authorities. The truth at the moment is such a postgraduate training is somewhat chaos. There are hospitals in which some people, perhaps good specialists, issue certificates that me or you, or any doctor can perform certain highly specialised activities. This, first of all, is really unacceptable. Secondly, it must be standardized whether through requirements, whether by specific changes to the Health Act and clearly the choir of this. Whether this should mean that the main training in medicine should also be changed. Because if four degrees are needed for an internist, as they have now divided the ultrasound qualification, then why, for God's sake, does he receive a degree of education? Shouldn't that change too? That is to say, the issue is adequate, the measure we have taken is this one, and I think that in September we will be ready to bring changes to Parliament in the Health Act, which will also concern this issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u167	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Chakarov, come in. I see you want to make a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u168	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, it is clear that there is really something to be desired, and in view of what you have taken, it is good to finalise all this, but to see it and now as a specific regulatory framework that will be laid down in order to improve and postgraduate qualification and continuous training of fellow doctors. Once again, we have wonderful doctors and we should be proud of them. We should be grateful to them, despite the situation in which the healthcare system operates, they give the most of themselves. One more point that I would like to further develop is that general practitioners currently do not have the opportunity to leave their jobs. It can't physically go if it doesn't have this legal, legal option to go to specialize, even if it wants to. To a large extent at this time the postgraduate qualification is based on personal activity, I do not exclude, I have just said other cases in which to improve in particular in the development of medicine. I know what the situation is at the university, let alone at peripheral hospitals. We really need to have a clear vision, a clear regulatory base and standards, and this is happening. It's in everyone's best interest. I am convinced that fellow doctors want it, and this alone can only lead to a better quality of medical services that we need in all areas. It was just a matter of pediatrics, of motherhood, but this concerns all areas in which the healthcare system operates. Thank you. V.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u170	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chakarov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! About the specialization of general practitioners. The National Framework Treaty regulates the conditions and procedures for extra-hospital medical care. There, according to art. 133, para. 1 of the 2015 Treaty each general practitioner is obliged to indicate in his contract with the Regional Casa his/her replacement or replacements where he/she cannot carry out his/her duties in person. The general practitioner shall inform the Director of the RHIF in writing, the name of the alternate, the time and place of replacement. Paragraph 5 of the same provision in the Framework Treaty lays down that, within the period of substitution, the replacement has all the rights and obligations of the holder. Not that that's the cardinal decision. It is absolutely clear that when he is absent from work, including for continuous training, he is difficult to deviate from his practice for a long time. For this reason, different forms of continued training, including distance learning, could be used. The regulatory framework provides for the obligation of the general practitioner to acquire a specialty in general medicine. There he must obtain the appropriate competence. The general medicine curriculum currently provides modules, and here the question of universities' teaching departments is reduced to this.. maximum flexibility to the possibilities, but otherwise, except by substitution, there is no real one. Simply the curriculum, the theoretical courses that must be carried out with separation from practice, must be maximum and graphically combined with the opportunities of general practitioners in order not to expose this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u171	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to the Minister of Health is from the MP Jayhan Ibryamov on measures to reduce violations of public procurement in the healthcare system. Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u172	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At the beginning of the year, the European Commission published another report on Bulgaria's progress on the cooperation and verification mechanism. It again puts one of the main points on irregularities in the field of public procurement. They were characterized as a major and systemic problem to the Bulgarian administration. I would like to remind myself that a little more than a year ago the first report of the European Commission on the state of corruption in the 28 EU member states, which noted that 84% of Bulgarians believe that corruption is widespread in Bulgaria and is directly related to public procurement. This opinion of Bulgarian citizens is conditional on examples for which Bulgarian healthcare was also characterised by the European Commission as a risk in terms of corruption and manipulation of public procurement. So I took the liberty of doing a study on the activities of the Ministry of Health, by which I found that the weaknesses in public procurement were not alien to his administration. I was impressed by the fact that the Ministry of Health and Health is using funds under a grant scheme under the Project "Support for reconstruction, renovation and equipment of state medical and health institutions in urban agglomerations" under the Operational Programme "Regional Development." By Decision No RD-11-11 of 9 January 2015, the Minister of Health launched a procedure for the award of a public contract with the subject of "Supply, installation and commissioning of clinical laboratory systems including the relevant consumables and service information system'. Consequently, due to serious deficiencies and deficiencies in the documentation with Decision RD-11-33 of 23 January 2015, the Minister has made a change of the terms of the contract. Despite the actions taken to ensure the legality of the contract, after an analysis of the documentation it appears that the vices in its terms and the frapantic shortcomings have not been corrected. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I will point out some of them: specified non-existent preparations suspended from production included in the documentation, such as evaluation indicators; mixing of the notions of............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In this regard, my question to you, Mr Minister, is: what corrective measures to address the problems related to the procurement of public procurement provides and will take the Ministry in the sector....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u173	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Mr. Minister, you have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u174	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ibryamov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! First of all, on your common ground. In order to reduce the violations of public procurement in the health system, the Ministry of Health together with the Center for Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption and Organized Crime and the Public Procurement Agency has developed a concept for the establishment of a Central Procurement Authority in the sector................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The concept was adopted by decision of the Council of Ministers, including two weeks ago besides the concept already and the realization of the project is subject to the Order of the Council of Ministers and public procurement is forthcoming in this connection for betting the software. This will lead to an increase in the efficiency, quality and economics of procurement in the sector of..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... At this stage, it is planned with an obligation for an electronic platform for medicines, and we will carry this on to medical issue and other things that are subject to standardisation. To get ahead of your question, because I have been listening to speculation, whether corruption has been centralised or decentralized, let us say that one of the main recommendations of the European Commission, the Bank and the specialized authorities in Europe to combat corruption is precisely this: these are the European models and the creation by the state of centralized bodies, where it is visible, transparent, in a most pure way. Do you really want me to be in charge of the labs?! Your question is as follows: laboratory complexes, part of the government's medium-term investment programme, for equipment of oncology equipment. This is a drama that has been going on since 2010 and has been going on since last year and this year and the past year. In fact, it is about this: this has been announced several times and several times the companies in question have appealed. It is about the following: the desire of individual companies that produce such equipment to be able to see mainly or only themselves in the specifications of this apparatus. That's what the appeal is for. We have already assembled all possible national consultants from all nations to say what these requirements should be, because this team of the Ministry and this government will not succumb to making specifications for a particular company. On Wednesday, which is the commitment of Deputy Minister Persenski, who personally leads this problem, this public procurement will be published. It is consistent with absolutely all requirements and so on. If it is again appealed, what the Ministry will do is to place an order with the only criterion of the lowest price. And that's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u175	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ibryamov, a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u176	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, you confirm the thesis that serious violations have been committed in the award of this contract. Because the definition that subsequently imposed the CPC is that this order is unlawful. The Ministry has appealed the order to you, the SAC confirms the definition of the KPC, which suggests that the employees of the office itself admit and mislead you and your subordinates for the admission of these violations. We will closely monitor the activities of the Ministry of Health in the award of upcoming public procurement. I hope that what you have said is that from now on these violations will not be allowed and the absorption of European funds will become even better, this will be welcome for the whole Bulgarian society, but indeed you have confirmed that you have committed a breach in the award of the contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u177	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u178	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ibryamov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Please read my words as you wish, just one more time to remind me. This whole circus is running certain specifications, two or three companies are appealing, this goes to the KPC, then goes to the VAC this is a game in the course of five administrations, perhaps the one that I run at the moment is the sixth. That is why I say, here the question is not whether the administration has done its work quality over the past five years. Once again, the solution to this thing is not just an answer to you, but to all those who are listening at the moment, if those truly clean participants with the opportunity to offer such equipment play such an auction will be announced by the Ministry on Wednesday. If that doesn't happen, we're going to auction with the only criterion. The lowest price. Whether or not we're going to buy some under-quality apparatus, that doesn't matter to me anymore, because otherwise by October, we're going to lose the money for it. There will be no logic that the government will be blackmailed over time and in order not to lose the money we will meet the requirements of one or another firm. Come on, let's see, when we release only the lowest price, will anyone appeal? Sure, but it's gonna be really interesting what the CDC says next.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u179	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I am taking this opportunity to congratulate the guests of our parliament today - a group of young people from Sliven District who are participants in the project - find yourself. To wish them luck. [[Applause.]] We continue with a question by the MPs Svetlin Tanchev and Borislav Iglev about the announced intentions for the merger of medical institutions. Here you go, Mr. Tanchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, on 23 April 2015, a press release from the Ministry of Health announced the release from office of Dr. Decho Dechev. Ivan Rilski, arguing that this is part of the initiated procedure for the merger of UMHAT St. Ivan Rilski, with the argument that this is part of the initiated procedure for the merger of UMHAT St. Ivan Rilski и UMHAT "Alexandrovska". As a result of the changes announced by you and your team, there is acute social tension among those working in the medical establishment. Dozens of hospital employees repeatedly went out to protest, including in front of the building of the National Assembly and the Ministry of Health, announcing against the release of Dr. Decho Dechev and the planned solution for the merger of medical institutions. According to the employees at the University Hospital "St. Ivan Rilski "is absurd and unacceptable the proposed merger of two medical institutions, especially given the fact that for several consecutive years the University Hospital "St. Ivan Rilski doesn't have any obligations. It was established as a modern hospital with highly qualified specialists offering quality health services and the management of University Hospital,St. Ivan Rilski "showed a number of other leaders in the country how a state hospital should be managed. The medics were supported in their protest by the National Syndicate. According to the Syndicate, there is no information as to how and within what deadlines the announced merger of hospitals will take place, and by what order and by what criteria it will be decided which of the duplicate compartments will remain and will this lead to cuts of workers. The lack of an answer to these questions contributes to the tension among those working in the medical institutions whose merger is being referred to. As an additional argument, the protesters employees of the University Hospital St. Ivan Rilski and their former supervisor point out that for the merger of hospitals you announced, which also resulted in Dr. Dechev's dismissal, there is no decision of the Council of Ministers. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u181	Would you ask your question?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u182	Misunderstanding and tension also provokes the fact that Dr. Dechev was removed with the argument for the merger of hospitals, but in his place was immediately appointed another Director of the University Hospital. Ivan Rilski. In relation to the above, I ask you to answer me: what specific measures are you planning for the merger of hospitals and the transformation of their administration? What are the reasons for changing the management of a health institution, which, according to the financial statements and the opinion of the hospital doctors, has been led excellently so far? Who and when has made a decision about the merger of the University Hospital. Ivan Rilski and University Hospital, Alexandrovska, after there is no decision of the Council of Ministers about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u183	Thank you, Mr. Tanchev. Mr. Secretary for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u184	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Tanchev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As I have already pointed out in response to other parliamentary questions, there is no planned infusion or merger of medical institutions in the sense of art. Art. 262 262a of the Commercial Law and no decision has been made for the merger/influence of the two medical institutions University Hospital "Alexandrovska" and the University Hospital "St. Ivan Rilski" EAD. Regarding the question you have asked about the change in the management of the University Hospital "St. Ivan Rilski" EAD, it should be borne in mind that in the medical institutions, the Minister of Health in his capacity as exercising the rights of the state as sole owner of the capital is to decide the matters of the competence of the General Assembly. In accordance with art. 221, t. 4 of the Commercial Law, Art. 62, para. 3 of the Law on Medical Institutions and Art. 12, t. 4 of the Rules of Procedure for the exercise of state rights in commercial companies with state participation in capital, the exclusive power of the General Assembly of shareholders, respectively of the Minister of Health, is to elect and release members of the Board of Directors. The change in the management of the medical institution UMHAT St. Ivan Rilski "EAD" is a result of the conducted health policy and is a step towards the implementation of the decision to optimize the costs of administrative and business activities of 9 medical institutions "single companies located in the territory of the former Medical Academy in Sofia." The idea is to unite these hospitals to establish a civil society that requires their cooperation and active action. In this sense, medical institutions have already united their efforts for the general organisation of all administrative and business activities, preserving the structure and autonomy of each of them. This will lead to the optimization of administrative costs and will release a serious financial resource that can be used for medical activities and to increase the remuneration of hospital workers. At the moment, concrete action is being taken for this company. On my desk from yesterday is an analysis of the degree of usability of the vast amount of laboratories and heavy technical equipment for which, through our contributions or through the state budget, we pay optimization of these costs. Let me give you an example, we're saying: Ivan Rilski is a good hospital. Yeah, it's a good hospital, but does that mean it's St. John's Day? Catherine is not good or pediatrics that is not profitable is not good? Here is not the question of who is the profit of what, but whether we are optimally using the resource we have. It's all about 1 sq. km. Let me tell you about the practice between these hospitals not to talk to each other. They didn't talk until now. If I'm the director of one hospital, and you're the one on the other, and my hospital breaks down a scanner, I've made a contract with you, based on which the patients in bed at the hospital that I run are being tested on the scanner at your hospital for the amount of BGN 500. This is a healthy patient who got into the hospital for surgical treatment. The scanner is broken, the Cashier has paid, the state has financed, but these hospitals are exchanging some such amounts and finally declaring which profits, which losses. Everything must be reduced from the point of view of the equipment available, for which much of the State is invested, to be optimally used, to shrink administrative and economic costs, precisely in order for the money that is currently going there to be available for the payment of workers and for better treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u185	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Tanchev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I am generally satisfied with your answer. I'm not here as some expert or judge to judge you for how you conduct the reform. I would like to make a wish to you that in the last few months there has been a mix-up between two hospitals, nine hospitals, whether this thing will continue in other areas and regional aspects. I would like to ask you to be more transparent and more specific. As a manager and leader to introduce the guild to what will be the vision, so that it does not come to this type of ambiguity. The doctors themselves, nurses and the entire staff of hospitals to have some clarity about their future, because the additional stress that is in the system, out of uncertainty, I think hindering their work at a proper level. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u187	Thank you, Mr. Tanchev. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u188	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Tanchev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, thank you for the correct tone. Of course, I take note of what you said and the effort will be directed there. Just to give an example, sometimes we are so interested in our own environment and we cannot raise the scale that we are getting strange comments from the outside. Yesterday, at the economic forum, which was mentioned here in the speech of Mr. Gechev, was the undisputed expert in the field of Mr. Jacques de Taf, who is the chairman of the Belgian Health Union. To explain these administrative mergers, what could be a hospital and what could not be, he asked: "And where is the problem? " I mean, isn't it clear that things can be like this? He set an example. In Belgium, for one night by law, it is clear: a hospital with less than 150 beds cannot be financed by their fund, which is for us. Hospitals need to be networked. The patient needs to be guaranteed that. I mean, if we get out of our arguments here, that's the way the whole normal world goes. It is nice and we, of course, with the assessment that, when this is not well articleed, creates tension. I accept the note.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u189	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from MP Maya Manolova on the policy of the Ministry of Health for the treatment of cancer patients. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u190	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Moskov, your health reform, already known in society as the "Experiment" Moskov, is underway. The other day the parliament legalized the division of packages, and with them the lists of the waiting and the payment of hospital treatment. People are in shock, the forums exploded, and that's completely understandable, because even if you're health insurance, you're gonna have to wait or pay. The citizens who came to parliament yesterday asked me to remind you that in civilized European countries even animal experiments are prohibited, and in Bulgaria with Experimenta Moskov, with your health reform you allow yourself to do experiments with people with patients and doctors. Especially worried are people with cancer and doctors who treat them. I would remind you that we are talking about 600,000 Bulgarian citizens suffering from such diseases, with 37,000 Bulgarians suffering from oncology every calendar year. They are treated in oncology centres, seven in number, and five specialized hospitals, united in an oncage that has existed since the 1960s and is a good example even for European countries. However, people who have cancers and doctors are worried about three groups of problems that you are creating with your experiment, with your health reform. The first group of problems is related to the limits of the cancers that you, although you made a commitment from the parliamentary tribune, did not cancel. The second group of problems is related to your intention to merge oncodispansers, complex oncocenters with multi-profile hospitals, which you have not given up on stubbornness. A reference to the law that you have brought into Parliament. And the third round of problems is related to the repression you carry out on the managers of complex cancer centers, to a respected specialist who, naturally, resists your experiment, and you shoot one after the other just because they dare to oppose you. In this regard, it is my question to you: what are your intentions for reforms in the treatment of cancer patients?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer. Let me just remind you that we're in a questioning procedure, which means you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u192	And then nothing, right?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u193	Then again, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u194	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Manolova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Ministry of Health has a National Programme for the Prevention of Chronic Infectious Diseases, adopted by the Council of Ministers. The main prevention activities and the guidelines for improvement of treatment are listed there. If I have to save the dry statistics, part of which has been correctly expressed in your question, I will say that the main change that needs to take place, and not only in oncology, but in the way the treatment takes place in the Bulgarian medical institutions, is the formation of a complex multidisciplinary approach in the treatment, in this case of what you are asking about. In response to this, there are different lines of behavior. The first is related to continuing and currently buying serious, modern equipment. After the main part of the government's mid-term programme, when scanners, linear accelerators and other really modern and heavy equipment were bought between 2009 and 2013, now in the mandate of this government, this continues. Within this year, until its end in Sofia, Plovdiv, Varna and Pleven will be installed different in specifics, characteristics, localization, in the sense of the possibility of action on certain localization, radiation equipment and radio surgery, which is actually the main reason for this, to call it a sad caravan of cancer patients to Turkey. At the end of this year we will have a complete set of equipment on the territory of Bulgaria, which will stop the claims from the Turkish country, because not everyone goes through the Fund for treatment abroad, that about 100 Bulgarians go through this type of therapy every week because of the needs of such equipment, which is available in high-tech Turkish hospitals. On the matter of limits. Let us say here very clearly: there is a decision of the Cashier's Supervisory Board in which the cost of oncological medicines is centralized. They are removed from the methodology, respectively removed from the requirements relating to the signing of contracts between the medical institutions and the Cashier and are in special order and accountability. I don't want to come in here about the accountability of these things. You know, we've also talked here about the possibility of parallel exports, of abuse, because these are really expensive drugs, cost thousands of levs, but the state, respectively, the National Fund has guaranteed a hundred percent free treatment. We'll talk later. You will now give arguments, you will make a statement with a strong political aplomb. I don't want to argue with you. I respect your position, and I believe she's sincere. So this is what we call a complex thing, if something else is called a multi-profile thing, how to say, it's a question of abbreviation at the moment. What the Ministry, Casata will do at this time, respectively, is that next year for the treatment of cancers and all socially significant diseases, the Casa will only conclude contracts with a structure or network of structures that can guarantee the full range of specialists, research and equipment with a clear view to you, for me and don't give, God, if necessary, a schedule when, where and why it is secured and guaranteed. Only in the finals will the Cashier sign a contract. We will stop funding structures and start financing the network or the chain or the passage of treatments. It's about whether and how far this is now because I hear in the question such a claim, this thing, Mrs. Manolova [[shows two very thick folders]] , is a quarter of the complaints received from patients from the beginning of my term in office at the Ministry. One quarter! The others just couldn't bring them. This is the clear diagnosis of whether it should change or not, regardless of the views of the Minister, doctor or MP. If you want, let's do this thing together. I will set aside, if specifically for oncology is your accent, I will separate from all this all complaints related to oncology, we will sit down together to do the analysis and I will try to convince you that a change in terms of guaranteeing the complexity of the service is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u195	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Manolova, two minutes for up to two supplementary questions to Minister Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u196	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Moskov! My two additional questions are related to the main issues and are on the two most important topics for cancer patients. The first one is inevitably linked to the limits. Despite your promise, despite the promises of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund, I assure you that the limits are neither removed nor liberalized. There are nude promises that are not related to the signing of the corresponding anexes with complex oncology centers. On Monday, I was in Shumen at the complex Oncology Center. I'm really impressed! There's no chaos there, as you claim. There's high-tech equipment there, highly qualified specialists. There's order and order! What amazes me is that in the afternoon, high-tech equipment, which they claim does not give in to the one in Turkey, did nothing for a single reason: they have a limit on how many patients can receive appropriate therapy. They can't exceed the limits. In this way you condemn some of the patients, they must write you complaints, not be able to treat them within the appropriate time limits. In fact, I would advise you to go to Shumen, but I will not do it, because after your visit to Burgas, by the way, a semi-legal visit, in the morning the Head of the Center has established with amazement that you have already made a commitment to infuse, to merge, to transform the complex Oncological Center at all without even informing him without even meeting him, so if you are going to do such damage, you better not go to Shumen. My second question is about the merger of oncodispansers in multi-profile hospitals, which is your long-standing intention. I very much hope that you do not want to do so in order to make public procurements for expensive equipment that are to be made, your statement, to be made by the Ministry of Health. I very much hope that's not your intention. And lastly, the repression of the chiefs of the onco-centers, reference to the removal of Dr. Kalinov, a respected specialist of the Oncological Centre in Plovdiv and his replacement with an orthopedic specialist who has nothing to do with cancer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u197	Time, Mrs. Manolova!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u198	My question is final, and I'm done. Was Dr. Kalinov replaced because he dared to oppose you and lead a protest, or was he replaced because of his opposition to the use of Oncodispanser's money for asphalting streets in Plovdiv, instead of seven million staying in the Oncodispanser for technology and medicine, they were used by the municipality to fill holes, which is a real outrage?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u199	Please don't use my tolerance too much time! You finally have two more minutes to give your attitude to the answers. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u200	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Manolova, I really don't want to go into this because (sighs) because things aren't as you say they are. Of course, you have the right to make your election propaganda. Let's start there again: there is no return of a Bulgarian patient with cancer because of the limit. If any, I ask you to state his name. There are other things. There are, for example, but it is not related to centres, to hospitals, to private, public, municipal, who treat this, there are situations in which the Casa reports that at the same time, as lying sick, there were three cancer patients on one bed. There is that, too, but this, how can I say, is the daily work that the Ministry and the Casa must do. I repeat: no cancer patient has been returned because of lack of medication due to a limit. If there is one, I really ask for the specific name and the specific case. I have no idea what was the reason for the Municipal Council, which is the owner of the complex oncological center in Burgas, I was there, we talked with colleagues, including Dr. Kalinov, we have come to clear general conclusions and where we are going. They accepted all the arguments about the complexity of the treatment and that there should be a clear chain and path of the patient. And we said it together, together in front of the media. Remember that the Municipal Council in Plovdiv issued a declaration to oppose what you are talking about, so I have no idea what was the reason of the principle in this medical establishment to replace its director. If it were state, I'd give you an answer. From the point of view of how to legally reach the guarantee that a Bulgarian patient, in this case we are talking about cancer, will have its guaranteed path from the diagnosis to, God forbid, the healing, to the complexity of the entire treatment that accompanies severe life in these situations, in the Law on Medical Institutions we have foreseen three possible options. One is a legal merger, the other is the formation of a functional union and the third is a consortium. In fact, the consortium between the Multiprofile Hospital in Burgas, where the huge percentage of oncosurgery in the city and in the district is carried out, because down to the Turkish border there is no other major hospital, and the complex Oncological Center plus the former Bilateral Dispanser, is underway on the basis of cooperation between the Ministry and the Municipality of Burgas. That is, the opportunity to work clearly as a functioning, working model with the absolute consciousness, clarity and confidence of both principals, respectively the municipality in Burgas and the Ministry, that this is the working approach of Burgas to ensure that what I am talking about is something that we are doing. This is not only not scary, it is necessary to ensure that the Bulgarian patient is guaranteed that the money that we spend through our taxes, through our insurances we give for their treatment, in fact guarantee the path of the treatment, and not as it has so far, the discharge of a medical establishment and seek its way to the other until it finds it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u201	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Manolova, you have two minutes to express your attitude to the answers Minister Moskov gave you. I'm gonna have to ask you to fit in both minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u202	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Moskov, in fact the fact that there are no returned patients for onco-therapy is not thanks to the policy that leads the Health Insurance Fund and you, but is thanks to the fact that the leaders of these onco-centers are responsible enough, qualified and brave enough to treat people beyond limits. In the end, they treat you on their own account, without being paid by the Cashier, they accumulate debts that a process will at some point escalate. For now, what I have advised them is to go to court, as you very well know that the distribution of money for hospitals and oncocenter has been taken in an illegal way by a small decision of the Supervision of the National Health Insurance Fund, so that the outcome of these trials is pre-solved, but I would like to warn you that you are burdened with dangerous responsibilities, deciding in a single way, as such powers have given you the Parliament of your insistence............................................................................................................................................................................................................. I warn you that we in Parliament will strongly oppose this intention of yours. They will oppose both doctors and patients because it is against their interests. We will also oppose your intention to fire all the chiefs, heads of complex oncology centers and specialized hospitals, because this is what you propose in the Law which you have submitted to the National Assembly. I understand that the respect you have for these respected specialists and their ability to resist your experiment [[the President signals that time has run out]] , create certain concerns, but, I assure you, these are respectable people and I would wish you and myself for us professionally and politically to talk to people with such superlatives as those people who run the complex oncocenter. And last sentence, so that I don't create a problem for Dr. Kalinov, I don't know him, I've never seen or talked to him, but doctors and patients and Plovdiv are behind him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u203	Last question to the Minister of Health by the National Representative Miho Mihov on financing the treatment of acute leukemias. Here you are, Mr. Mihov, to develop your question in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u204	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers! My question is, unfortunately, building on the previous question. As is known, acute leukemias are one of the most dangerous, but luckily already treatable oncological diseases. The National Health Insurance Fund grants funds for their treatment of BGN 850. According to experts, however, this amount is not enough for one tenth of the real value of the necessary medical services and medicines to combat this disease. The price of the course of treatment is at 10 lv. The difference should be covered by the budget of the hospital where the patient is accommodated. Because of this, medical institutions refuse to accept and treat patients with leukemia with the clear awareness that they accumulate debts. Despite the moral contradiction, treatment is provided only to people with sufficient resources to pay the required amount. Dear Minister, my question to you is: what is the formula for financing the treatment of acute leukemias from the National Health Insurance Fund, and why is it denied to health-insured persons who are not available with sufficient resources to pay?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u205	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u206	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mihov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First, there was no complaint at the Ministry of Health, no information from a hospital for patients with acute leukemia and with no admission. The treatment process of these acute leukemias requires a really high-tech resource, which should be available to medical institutions dealing with the therapeutic modeling of these patients. That is why the standard of clinical education defines this small group of patients, fortunately, to be diagnosed, treated and tracked in the university specialized clinics of haematology, in the MMA, in Sofia, and in the specialized hospital for the treatment of haematological diseases. The first procedure is mainly carried out there. According to Regulation No 40 of 2004 laying down the basic package guaranteed by the budget of the NHIF, the treatment is carried out on the clinical path I must say, the difference between the value of clinical pathways and the value of treatment is about what you say, but the value of anti-tumor medicinal products, as well as other medicinal products arising from the underlying disease, are not included in the price of the clinical path and the procedure paid by the NHIF. These medicinal products are written and offered by the medical establishment according to treatment schemes and 100% are paid on another channel from the NHIF. I'm not saying that everything is well funded and everything has, but that's not the difference. I mean, if you take with the price of the clinical path, which, let's say, is 800 BGN, and the treatment, which can be 5, 10 and much more, the main part of the value of this treatment is based on really extremely expensive medicines. These drugs are 100% paid by the NHIF, but not in the price of the clinical path. This treatment process spans a long period of time, which requires multiple entry of these patients into the relevant treatment units. On each entry, the NHIF finances the medical establishment according to the National Framework Treaty on the refined for these diseases and their complications clinical pathways and procedures. I can't say with the hand of the heart that in the system, and especially with regard to leukemia, everything is 100% right and working without tension, but I want to make it clear that the overall drug therapy of these people is 100% funded by the Casa. Whether the value of the clinical path should be this or not is the subject of a longer conversation if I have 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u207	You do, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u208	The clinical path is a cat in a bag. This one costs 800, the other one costs 1000. Until the moment when, as we are currently planning with the Cashier for next year, we do not break this thing into the value at which the treatment actually costs: medicines, supplies from the needle and gauze to the expensive drug, what part of this is used for overhead and business expenses, what part is guaranteed as income of the people who actually treat, and what part goes for highly specialised equipment with high depreciation and consumption, we will actually continue to conduct this dispute, whether it is funded or not funded. When these things are taken out white, and we will spend the whole summer dealing with this together with the Cassata, next year your question and all MPs can be like this: how can the really appreciated underfunded treatment of this disease be overcome? In increasing the budget, the health contribution, but this is now a political solution. But until we have clarity, the breakdown of what this involves and we continue the cat in a bag of whether it will be 800 or 900 BGN, for which both sides do not have the real argument, the conversation is rather wishful thinking. Thanks for asking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u209	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u210	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is more of a signal to you. I thank you for the algorithm that you have developed, and I hope that with the new law things will be corrected. But believe me, the signal I'm giving through this question is real. A man of mine a month ago, released by Tokuda for cytostatuses, in the Woodenitsa, refused him a reception. The doctors say to him: "Call the television to see how we pay and what we deal with! " Military hospital there doesn't work, Alexandrovska hospital... That is, the mental illness and the moral price that they paid, and I even, in fact, greatly prejudiced me as a Bulgarian citizen. That's why I shared that the one who can't pay extra but is provided as if it's going to die. Too bad, I hope you're taking this pain to heart. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u211	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Mr. Minister, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u212	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mihov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Once again, because obviously with some of the previous MPs who asked the question, this conversation will somehow not be able to be heard, but to explain to you. Speaking of which, we need to stop financing a certain structure that claims to be doing something, but value and finance the overall passage of treatment of this countryman and of every Bulgarian health insurance citizen, I mean this. You quoted Tokuda or any other hospital, but they are not at the moment guilty because the financial rules of the game are such. They do not force them to interact, someone chooses something that is the highest income and perhaps the lowest cost, with the use of the most expensive medicine, performs this episode of your treatment, then you are looking for the other, third or fourth hospital. Here's what you're saying, you can explain it to your colleagues on the left that you need to change. The cashier must pay through the way I say that you must value the complete passage of treatment of this earthling of yours. Then these structures themselves will be forced to seek this unification, to reduce their total economic costs, because the value will not account for 4 administrations or gardens in the yard.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u213	Thank you, dear Minister, for your reply and for your participation in today's parliamentary control. We move on to questions to Vezhdi Rashidov, Minister of Culture. The first question is from the MP Boris Yachev regarding the security of educational institutions in the territory of Sofia Municipality at the Ministry of Culture. You have the floor, dear Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u214	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! My question is related to the security of educational institutions at the Ministry of Culture, which are located in the territory of Sofia Municipality. Dear Mr. Rashidov, at present the security of the municipal schools in Sofia Municipality is provided by a municipal firm of Egida and is at the expense of the municipality. Unlike them, schools at the Ministry of Culture, six in number in the territory of Sofia Municipality, should organise this activity from their own budget, for which they do not receive additional funds. This, first of all, significantly increases the cost of supporting schools at the Ministry of Culture, and next, leads to inequality of the various educational institutions which are municipal and those who are at your ministry. It is also essential that schools at the Ministry of Culture conduct procedures for organising a security contest under the Public Procurement Act and therefore conclude contracts with security companies offering the lowest price. That's the most common. This is necessary in order to avoid excessive spending and to allow these educational institutions to organise maintenance costs within their budgets. However, this is about the protection of children's lives and health, which is of extreme social importance and interest. The conclusion of low-cost security contracts in many cases does not result in the necessary quality of the service provided, which could potentially also endanger the safety of children. In this regard, one of the solutions to the problem could be the conclusion of a contract between the Ministry of Culture and a municipal firm of Egida to Sofia Municipality, which would take over the security and educational institutions of the Ministry of Culture. Dear Minister, in view of the above, my specific question to you is: what measures and actions does the Ministry of Culture intend to take to ensure quality and reliable protection of educational establishments that are at the Ministry of Culture in Sofia Municipality?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u215	Thank you, dear Mr. Yachev. Minister Rashidov, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u216	Mr. Chairman, MPs! Dear Mr. Yachev, in answer to your question about the security of educational institutions at the Ministry of Culture in the territory of Sofia Municipality, I inform you the following. In accordance with art. 6, para. 4 t. 6 of the Child Protection Act the Minister of Culture ensures the safety of children in schools and organizational structures in the system of the Ministry of Culture. This responsibility is entrusted with the official characteristics of the directors of the art and culture schools. Art and culture schools are 23. The schools are state-owned, have the status of cultural institutes under the Law on Protection and Development of Culture. They are authorising officers with a budget to the Minister of Culture and are legal entities. Schools are on a delegated budget, receiving funds based on a formula of allocation of funds at uniform costs and standards. The Ministry of Culture does not have separate budget funds to finance contracts with security companies to provide security for art schools and culture schools. In 2010, following the introduction of delegated budgets into the education system, the Ministry of Culture carried out a study on how to finance activities in order to ensure the safety of children in schools and found that security expenditure should be carried out on school budgets at the expense of the funds of the single costs and standards, the transitional residues of the previous year and the realised own revenues. This way of financing children's and students' security activities is implemented in municipal schools. On the territory of Sofia there are seven schools of arts and culture. School principals shall have the right to assess what non-pedagogical staff to appoint within their delegated budget, including Currently at the National Professional High School of Polygraphy and Photography there are appointed two janitors, at the National Music School "Lyubomir Pipkov " three, at the National School of Fine Arts "Ilia Petrov " two, at the National High School of Applied Arts " St. Luca Five of the schools have signed a contract for physical security with companies that have been selected under the Public Procurement Act. The National School of Dance Arts, the National Music School, the National School of Ancient Languages and Cultures, the National Professional School of Polygraphy and Photography and the National School of Culture with the Entrepreneurship for Study of Italian Language and Culture with the participation of the Republic of Italy, the security companies are licensed and comply with the requirements of the Private Security Activity Act. In two schools, the National School of Fine Arts, Ilya Petrov and the National High School of Applied Arts, St. Luca, has a signal and notification system. In the National Professional High School of Polygraphy and Photography, the National Cultural Training Complex with the Lusius for the Study of Italian Language and Culture with the participation of the Republic of Italy, the security companies are licensed and comply with the requirements of the Private Security Activity Act. In two schools the National School of Ilia Petrov is also provided licensed companies. A 24-hour surveillance is provided in all schools. In addition, in the implementation of letter No 91-07-22 of 2015 of the Minister of Education and Science and letter No 91-37-78 of 2015 of the Regional Education Inspectorate of Sofia-City, to increase and maintain security measures in all structures of the National Education System in Art Schools, all necessary measures have been put in place under crossing regime and access in buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u217	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line, Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u218	Thank you for your comprehensive answer, Mr. Minister. I am not questioning the security of all these six or seven schools on the territory of Sofia Municipality. The question, as you understand it, had a fundamental financial aspect because the budgets of these schools are actually very limited and even when public procurement is being conducted, the leading motive for concluding contracts and choosing a contractor company, in this case a security and security company, is the lowest price offered, and this does not always correspond to quality. Could the Ministry consider concluding a centralised contract, as it is in other municipal schools, so that uniform standards and uniform security controls could still be introduced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u219	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Minister Rashidov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u220	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The Ministry of Culture strictly applies the Public Procurement Act. Care for the security of children and students in art schools is the main principle equality between the capital schools and schools located in other settlements, in all of them secured in the appropriate way and of sufficient quality by licensed security companies and appointed employees. I note again that in municipal schools on the territory of Sofia Municipality, security companies are elected according to the Public Procurement Act. The quoted practice of direct award of the company Egida with contract is old and today no longer applies given the changes in the legal base. The Ministry of Culture has taken all necessary measures to ensure the security of children and students, including the crossing regime and access in buildings, in accordance with the instructions of the Minister of Education and Science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u221	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Stanislav Todorov Stanilov regarding the release of habilitated specialists from the National Museum Complex. Here you go, Professor. Stanilov, for a statement of his question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u222	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, colleagues! The museum is also a scientific institution. This is explicitly referred to as art. 24 of the Cultural Heritage Act. The rule applies to the greatest extent to national museums. It is for this purpose that the legal framework provides for the establishment of scientific groups in museums. They increase the quality of the expertise and of the cultural product. In view of this, it is incomprehensible why in recent years we have observed how systematic difficulties have been created for museums in order not to be able to perform their first major function as a scientific institution. A dramatic example is what is happening in the National Museum Complex. In violation of the Law and Ordinance No H-5 of 11 December 2009 no scientific group was established in the National Museum Complex. It is also possible that some official has been misled that the National Museum Complex is essentially a gallery and does not need explorers. However, the law in the additional provisions has indicated that state and municipal art galleries have the status of museums. Even more inexplicable is why the only two habilitated specialists who, according to Regulation No H-5, can be designated as the leaders of this scientific group have been released from the National Museum Complex. Thus the opportunities for conducting research and scientific popularization work in the National Museum Complex are definitely reduced. In this regard, Minister, I ask you to answer me what measures will you take to establish a scientific group in the National Museum Complex and to return the habilitated specialists to head it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u223	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. Minister Rashidov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u224	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs! Dear Mr. Stanilov, in relation to your question, I inform you that with Decree No 440 of the Council of Ministers of 2014 the transformation of national museums is adopted on the basis of art. 5, para. 1 of the Law on Protection and Development of Culture and Art. 28, para. 1 of the Law on Cultural Heritage. As a result of the transformation of the employment relations of employees in the transformed cultural institutes under art. 1 are settled under the conditions and under the order of art. 123 of the Labor Code. Currently, nine habilitated specialists, one subsidiary head, one curator, three curators, three restorers and one archiver are working at the National Gallery. At present, a scientific group has been established in the Museum in accordance with Ordinance No H-5 of 2009. The group is led by a habilitated person who holds an academic position of associate doctor and is a member of seven habilitated specialists. In accordance with art. 6 of the Ordinance, members of a scientific group in a museum may be appointed persons who have acquired the scientific degrees of Doctor and Doctor of Sciences. This largely provides protection for the habilitated persons and enables them to take up simultaneously a post in a museum and to perform teaching activities at universities. The activities of the scientific groups in the museums are organized and led by a scientific group leader, who may be a habilitated person holding an academic position. Where that is not possible, the Chief Assistant shall be appointed. It is within the authority of a museum director to appoint a leader of a scientific group as required by Ordinance No H-5 of 2009. Scientific groups are managed methodically by the specialized scientific institutes of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. In carrying out their functions, the habilitated persons who are also members of the scientific group in the museum perform their duties as museum officials according to their official characteristics, subject to the requirements of the Labour Code. At present, no other special protection is envisaged in the legal framework in this category of persons, on grounds of their dismissal from the museum post held. Any termination of the employment relationship with a museum employee shall be carried out under the terms of the Labour Code and its legality and shall be subject to judicial review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u225	Thank you, dear Minister. Professor Stanilov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u226	There's been some misunderstanding here because you claim, as I recall, that seven are the habilitated specialists. Seven habilitated specialists, Mr. Minister, can't be there because habilitated means that there are seven professors and professors working there, right? That's what it means. Whoever wrote your answer doesn't know what a habilitated specialist means. The habilitated specialist is from associate professor upstairs. There are only two of them there, and I'm told they've been released. I think one of them had two contracts, two jobs, and maybe that was the reason. However, you claim that they will continue to work there. I don't mind that, but we need to specify what habilitated specialists mean. When cutbacks are made, is it really under the Labour Code and treated as ordinary employees? When the director makes such cuts, he always starts from those with the lowest qualifications. It's a separate matter. I must also tell you that from the time you are a minister, large cuts have been made in the museum and library proceedings by the decision of your previous government. It's a painful process. Since the Ministry of Culture is so concerned about cultural heritage, it must protect specialists who are already low wages, and they are already too few to protect this heritage. Freeing a guardian in the National Library warehouse is, how can I tell you, there's no decent explanation for that. Finally, I call on you, however, when cuts are made in this area, to be very careful who is being shortened. Generally, cuts are made according to the principle of administration. When these cuts were made, one or two people were made in the administration, and all the rest were highly qualified museum workers who were creating a long time too difficult. Few people who are watching us now on television and colleagues who are sitting in the hall know how difficult it is to create a museum fund keeper who needs to identify, must describe, must have high qualifications. Leaving him on the street after that and finding money for state seats, it's very difficult to find specialists like that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u227	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. Minister Rashidov, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u228	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs! Mr. Stanilov, as we speak about released habilitated employees, a habilitated employee has been released. Blagovesta Ivanova, who teaches at the Higher Construction School "Lyuben Karavelov" in Sofia. She was released because she was on a second employment contract at the gallery. Mrs. Ivanova has a basic employment contract outside the gallery and that is why. There's no other reason. Of course, in much of what you said, there is a serious dose of truth... we have not yet been able to create conditions for researchers to develop. I agree with you. What we are about to do and are currently working at the Ministry to develop the museum management of Bulgaria, because in Bulgaria the museums thank God, in the last few years have increased, instead of being reduced, we already have two, or three more museums, we need to create real conditions for the preparation of museum managers. As long as our museums don't have such managers, they'll be hardly visited, and even profitable. To this end, we have an idea that we are currently developing, and I would very much like it to become a fact soon to create a new Institute for Museum Affairs. This is due to the Bulgarian scientists and museum workers and I hope that this idea will be realized very soon. First, it is very necessary, and second, you are right that habilitated specialists should have their base, develop their scientific activities, at least in the field of art and museum work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u229	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the National Representative Slavi Binev on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio and Television. You have the floor, dear Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, my question is about the amendment and the supplement to the Radio and Television Act. Is there a working group to develop this Law and which are its members? How and in what way are they chosen? Is the group with your Ministry and how is its impartiality guaranteed? Is it not logical to invite themselves to debate the amendments to the Law and the biggest critics of the current state and fighters for freedom of speech? Let's not forget that in the Freedom of speech index of Reporters without the border. 2015 we are falling headlong, we are now 106 places after countries such as Bellis, Suriname, Nigeria, Namibia, Sierra Leone, Benin and so on. Ten years ago, we were in 34th place. The European Commission also criticised us even the responsible commissioner comes to Bulgaria to start a debate on the problem. That, of course, didn't happen. In our country there are impunity media cartels chasing corporate interests through political influence, discriminating, chasing and fighting wars with critics, not with dialogue. Democracy only exists when there is free journalism. It is evident that there are very serious problems in the media sector. The composition and work of such an expert group should be as public and transparent as possible. No one has found out about the formation of this group, which, by the way, if I am not one of the activists, a major actor in this group, can be assumed or at least the sane people will understand that this is a decorative structure. The working group and its work shall be made public as soon as possible. The public has the right to participate in these trials. The media freedom control body has the same chairman in the last ten years when we fall 70 places down three times on the charts. I guess he's not right for that, and maybe that's why he's there. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In the second part, I will further develop my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u231	Thank you, dear Mr. Binev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u232	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of Parliament! Dear Mr. Binev, in a letter dated 4 June 2015 of the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Culture stated the existence of a discrepancy between the Law on Radio and Television and the Public Finance Act concerning the financing of the Council for Electronic Media. The Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio in this regard and in implementation of § 18 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Public Finance Act is proposed to take action as soon as possible to amend and supplement the Law on Radio and Television. According to § 18 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Public Finance Act, within six months of the promulgation of the Law in the Official Journal, the Minister of Culture should submit to the Council of Ministers a draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio and Television to reflect the changes arising from this law in the part of the Law on Radio and Television. In relation to this initiative letter, actions have been taken to form a working group with representatives of the Council for Electronic Media, Bulgarian National Radio, Bulgarian National Television and the Ministry of Finance. The listed organisations have identified their representatives in letters to the Ministry of Culture as follows: - Zoya Kasserova, State Expert at the Ministry of Finance; - Emilia Staneva - Chief Legal Advisor in the Directorate of the Specialized Administration in the Council for Electronic Media; - Hristin Trizhlev - Member of the Board of the Bulgarian National Radio; - Margarita Nikolova - Financial Director of the Bulgarian National Television; - Kremena Kadieva General Legal Consult at the Bulgarian National Television; - Miglena Katsarova, Chief Legal Consult at the Ministry of Culture. On 18 June 2015, a meeting of the Working Group was held.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u233	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Binev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u234	Mr. Minister, from your answer I have understood one thing: that this group can be disbanded very urgently, because the meaning of such a group is to indicate the defects in society, not to be swept away. I'd like to ask if anyone in this room could talk about going out on the street and ask if anyone has heard the names that even some of them you hardly read? These are not people known for their fight for freedom of speech or anything else. They're just some government officials who are gonna do what's in the service of our bad system anyway. People should be called in who have had real problems. By the way, I will give you an example: very recently I have spoken that one of the ministers here I will not mention his name, there are doubts about me in speculation about the funds that are being allocated to communication on European funds. He didn't answer my question. He just didn't answer my question, which caused a shock in journalists. All the journalists then came to ask me about it. Do you know what happened? Nothing came up because they came up and said, "Slavi, this ministry pays our media. We cannot deal with this thing no matter how big and serious this problem is. That's the problem! These people can't solve it, they can deepen it or mask it. If we want to solve problems, we just have to put them on the table. What can I say? I then wrote to the Prime Minister about this whole thing. I don't have an answer from him either. The only chance right now is to get all the information, along with everything that has happened, as proof of what is happening in Bulgaria to get it from the European Commission. Immediately after that they will say: "Who is exposing Bulgaria? " Those who, by the way, inform her of the problems that need to be solved, or those who allow them to happen? This situation is not normal. We have a definitive problem related to freedom and democracy in the country. I can talk a lot more about this, but I'll stop there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u235	Thank you, dear Mr. Binev. Would you like to take advantage of your right to dodge, Mr. Minister? No. The next question is from the National Representative Vili Lilkov on the policy of the Ministry of Culture for the Protection of Buildings and the implementation of art. 76 of the Cultural Heritage Act. You have the floor, dear Mr. Lilkov, to state your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Minister, my question is related to the buildings of the cultural monuments in Bulgaria and the application of art. 76 of the Cultural Heritage Act. The question lies in the following. For many years, unique buildings have been left to self-destruct. Citizens and media are constantly alerting about this. In many cases, it is about houses whose owners, I stress, are able to maintain them, but have deliberately left them to self-destruct so that they can then somehow use the plots for new construction and the realization of commercial purposes. Other valuable houses of artifacts lose their authentic appearance by being built into tons of concrete and glass and become commercial sites, losing their original cultural value. In addition, it turns out for every citizen that the register of buildings is inaccessible. No one can understand how many buildings of culture, how many of them have been issued prescriptions, how many of them have been renovated and no one can make a reference to the overall state of this extremely valuable building fund. In this sense are my questions: How many total buildings are the cultural monuments divided by categories and by types of property and how many have they decreased in the last ten years? How many of the existing buildings are currently at risk and need repair and prescriptions have been issued for them? How many sanctions have been imposed by the Ministry of Culture and by municipalities for the last three years for non-supporting buildings? How many times since the entry into force of art. 76 of the Cultural Heritage Act, it is applied for the protection of buildings and monuments of culture? I want to make it clear that art. 76 refers to cases where owners are obliged to perform repairs. They do not do it and the state and municipalities can carry out these repairs and mortgage their property. One last question: what is the reason why so many years there is no publicly accessible register of buildings in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u237	Thank you, dear Professor. Lilkov. Mr. Rashidov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u238	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Dear Mr. Lilkov, in relation to the questions you have asked, I will inform you of the following. According to the summary and letter with ex. No 04-01-453 of 17 June 2015 of the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage The total number of declared and declared single architectural, building, real cultural values is 19,438 sites. They are as follows: - cultural monuments declared by category - cultural monuments declared by category - cultural monuments declared in category - cultural monuments declared with or without a prior category are 14 780 sites. The National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage, under the current legislation, does not store data on the ownership of real cultural values. In the last ten years, under the Cultural and Museum Monuments Act and the Cultural Heritage Act, temporary conservation regimes of 299 declared sites have been terminated. In recent years, as a result of monitoring of real cultural values with high extreme cultural activity, carried out by a team of the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage, are established as endangered sites 13 group real cultural values.Saves; 10 group architectural and building real cultural values and 76 single real cultural values. For 2014-2015, the Directorate General for the Protection of Cultural Heritage at the Ministry of Culture has carried out checks concerning signals submitted. 56 number of constant protocols under art. 72 of the Cultural Heritage Act and instructions for emergency temporary strengthening of buildings are given. For 2015 15 constant minutes are drawn up with committees held under art. 73, para. 2 of the Law on Cultural Heritage and for the establishment of the status of buildings, cultural monuments, and giving instructions for their repair, strengthening and carrying out repair activities on them on signals and after checks were carried out. The Directorate-General for the Protection of Cultural Heritage has imposed for 2014 and 2015. 34 number of forced administrative measures to stop violations under the Cultural Heritage Act. For the past three years, the Ministry of Culture has drawn up four penal decrees in relation to art. 71, para. 1, t. 1 of the Cultural Heritage Act, which sanctions owners, concessionaires and users of real cultural values who do not take the necessary care to protect them. For application of art. 76 of the Cultural Heritage Act, the Ministry of Culture shall have the necessary resources due to the absence of such provisions has not been implemented so far. The preservation of cultural heritage is conducted by the Minister of Culture, but should be the responsibility of the relevant competent state and municipal authorities, the Holy Synod of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, the central guides of the other registered in religions and civil society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u239	Thank you, dear Minister. Professor. Lilkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u240	Dear Minister, I don't want to make general findings. I may have to get to know all the numbers in detail, but from what I've heard, I want to say that the work of the Ministry of Culture in terms of control, punishment and prescriptions for this stage is completely unsatisfactory. What does only 15 constant protocols for 2015 mean for violations committed, provided that daily a person is enough to spend in the central part of Sofia alone, not Bulgaria, and will see how many buildings are left to empty. We can only walk to Street. "Shipka" and to see the secession building, former property of Georgi Fingov an emblematic building for Bulgaria. It's been left ten years in front of all the Sofians to self-destruct. I don't want to give any more examples. Only four penal orders! Only 34 sets of forced performances! This for a building fund of about 20 thousand buildings in Bulgaria, which we know and each of us sees and finds, the last case with the building of the house of Surak Skitnik in Lozenets. This is a completely unsatisfactory job, and I know that much of it is also due to the carelessness of the municipalities. I would say that in Sofia just as soon as the Construction Control Directorate is dealing with this problem, I would say, but in national terms, I cannot be sure that the state is making the necessary efforts to preserve the cultural heritage. And last but not least, before I'm done, Art. 76 has not been administered. The question is: is it only because of lack of funds or its purely legislative application impossible? Because this norm has existed in the Law for at least ten years and has not been applied once. This means that the state is completely powerless in front of owners who do not want and do not want to repair their buildings. Would you say when this register will become a fact and become accessible to citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u241	A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u242	Mrs. Chairman, MPs! Dear Mr. Lilkov, your concern is also my concern. You're right about what you're asking. I think so, too, but I would rather address fellow MPs the next budget when we accept the budget of the Ministry of Culture, I would ask you all to be active. I'll explain why, it's not a reproach. First, if next year we make 10% with a ministerial decree cut, I will have perhaps for the whole of Bulgaria and for all monuments only one officer from the Inspectorate. You understand what I'm saying. Of course, with this inability to have a large inspectorate, an active inspectorate, we are making it really possible, and believe me, I am honest with you today, because a small inspectorate, and the monuments of culture are over 20 000 sites. Secondly, of course, you said very correctly, for which I thank you that the owners of these buildings.. because we have methodical control and we give status as the Ministry of Buildings as monuments of culture, of course, and I feel for every monument of culture in Bulgaria, especially architectural monuments and they make history and cities of municipalities as owners, private owners must also be very responsible because our legal levers are from For Sugar Factory we have repeatedly fined the owners who left the factory to ruin a monument of culture, but they are not intimidated by small fines. We need to change the law and adopt a maybe stricter and more masculine law so that he can hold the stick a little bit. Not to mention Yavorov's house-museum. We have a problem. He's a private owner, he doesn't want to. I guess that's what you're waiting for. You know the strategy, you were also a councilman, right, and you know the tactics of privates. When it falls to the ground, it says it's no longer a monument. And he's right when he crashes to the ground, it's not a monument, and then a glass, nice building goes up. I'm against it, too, I'm totally sharing with you, but the reasons are lack of money, believe me, we have no options. That's it, a small budget. One small difference is that the budget, which has the municipality for Sofia-city is a billion and a half, and for the whole of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Culture is 120 million. You realize we're even torturing ourselves. So I share all this with you, but, unfortunately, it's all about some money, a homelessness of owners, and everyone to assume their responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u243	Thank you, Minister, for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the questions and answers of Mrs. Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture and Food. First, the people representative Svetla Bachvarova will develop his question on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for the implementation of the control of food safety. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u244	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues! My question is related to the structure and functions of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. Let me remind you that with the change in the Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in Order No 90 of 16 April 2015 changes are made, as in the Central Management of the Ministry of Agriculture, also in the structure and functions of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. Careful reading of the proposed changes, especially in the Agency's structure shows. Firstly, increase the functions of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency; Secondly, a drastic reduction in the Agency's number by an average of 14.3%. Thirdly, a drastic reduction in staff in the Directorate General for Coordination and Control, which, according to the amendments in the Rules, is called the "Verification of official controls" and the demand here is 470 people. These are practically inspectors, people who actually carry out food safety controls and cover the countless outlets for trade and food, veterinary medicine preparations, veterinary doctors, animal health, agri-aptices and so on, a huge list of obligations that inspectors have to carry out in order to carry out their activities. At the same time, the administration is increasing. The administration in the Central Government of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency was increased by six percent. Just for example, the general administration is increasing from 64 to 74 people, and in the structure of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is established the Directorate of Agricultural Chain Policy, which will assist you and its number is 20 people. The issue I have with you is related to these not cosmetics, but significant changes in the structure and functions of the Food Agency. Will it be able to expand its functions, namely to protect Bulgarian citizens and to manage a policy related to the provision of safe food in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. For an answer Minister Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u246	Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, first of all, the question you are asking is related to structural changes that have already been completed. Obviously, the time when the answer comes is further back than the time when the regulations are adopted or changes are cooked. Naturally, as at the beginning, as we announced when the changes were adopted, they are connected and motivated by two factors - one is, the budget limit that we had on staff, but mostly with its optimization and effective use, the optimization of structures and in this connection the cuts are not all 10%, but according to the political programme that our cabinet has for the functioning of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and its system. With regard to your question that we have increased the state at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, this is not true, it is a consequence of its restructuring. Yesterday we publicly found the return of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture in Burgas after 15 years, and the Managing Authority for Communications and with the Commission, at the request of the branch organizations, becomes the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Yesterday, a Directorate for the Management of the Maritime and Fisheries Programme was created specifically for this. With regard to the cuts at the Food Agency, meanwhile, in the process of these cuts, the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency has been replaced, who reviewed the dismissals and redundancies, I hope that they have been made in a way in which the capacity of those employees who have done their duties in good faith and worked for the benefit of society.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u247	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u248	Thank you, Minister, but I didn't hear an answer to the question I asked. How will you ensure the safety of food, provided that the cuts of the 470 are of inspectors who carry out the control of the Ministry's structure on the spot? I can give you an example: Blagoevgrad 18 people; Varna 18; Plovdiv 24; Kardzhali 8; Pazardzhik 11. These are the people who need to ensure the safety and implementation of politics in places. You're cutting them short. This is a megastructure, and at the same time coordination of control with you, coordination of control in central management, but down on the ground there are no people to work. Besides, you're cutting down labs. We don't have people, we don't have labs! In Burgas is shortened or closed laboratory, which deals with the study of plant diseases in southern Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u249	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u250	What are we going to do, delegate our rights to private labs? This is also a factor that you should take into account that the structure that is being managed and you have, respectively, claims that it protects Bulgarian citizens, should have tools to do its job, and these are the people and laboratories. You cannot expect the European Commission to alert us to every single infringement or every single risk analysis that it carries out very well with its functions. You, trying to reason on the topic: what is the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, should you answer the question of how to minimize all these cases in which Bulgarian citizens are subjected to situations where they need to save extremely children in Ribaritsa, or somewhere else, or are you now doing checks on fruits and vegetables in all district cities? It's an accident, one time, and we say there's no cash register, or there's no what-you are. Control must be constant, it must be preventive, and this is done with people and with tools, which you should accordingly find a way and means to optimize and maintain a state that you can manage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u251	Thank you. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u252	Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, first of all, to tell you that the phytosanitary laboratory in Burgas is not closed. However, it must be repaired on the occasion of the fulfilment of requirements for its equipment in order to meet the criteria to be certified for this activity. Secondly, you ask me the question of awarding the activities of the laboratory, provided that in your mandate of management at the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency all laboratory activities were assigned to one laboratory, I just don't know what your motive is! Why didn't you put that in your term when you were chairman of a committee? Does there happen to be such a procedure at the moment to devote the activities of a laboratory as under your mandate? There's no such thing! There won't be any! There will be only activities for which there is no relevant accreditation, unlike your mandate. And I lived to have you ask me that question instead of me asking it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u253	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question to the Minister of Agriculture and Foods Mrs. Taneva is from the National Representative Vili Lilkov on the surrounding areas of the hunting farms, such as trappings for mass slaughter of animals. Here you go, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u254	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister! My question is about the surrounding areas of hunting farms that are used as trappings for animal massacres. In recent years, we have witnessed a particularly inhumane slaughter of wild boars in the so-called "built areas or fences" as hunters call them in part of the rented hunting grounds in state hunting farms. There are frequent cases of shooting of hundreds of animals in one.. two days. These murders, I don't accidentally call them homicides because they're purposefully built traps, purposefully brought in animals and raised there, only a quick profit, and they have nothing to do with hunting and development of the hunting farm. Strange half-wild pigs are often inserted into the fences as their natural population is threatened. They quickly breed inside, in the appropriate trap, but unfortunately then cynically kill each other in a few days. This has nothing to do with the philosophy of hunting and the ethics of hunting sport. By the way, I would like to say that from this introduction of feral pigs into a variety of hunting farms, such hybrids are obtained that are sharply threatening the population and altering the genofunda. Surrounded areas in hunting farms all over the world are facilities designed for acclimatisation and semi-free breeding of game, as a way to support its population or restore extinct animal species and not for slaughtering animals. I can say that only in Spain there is such a practice, but it is performed once a year in a particular ritual, not as in Bulgaria mercilessly, it even comes to the fact that some of the hunters deliberately cut the fences of these traps, showing humanity to animals. In this regard, I would like to ask the following questions: First of all, what is your personal attitude towards the problems posed? Secondly, what will be your reaction, purely legislative, to limit or I would say to completely stop this ruthless and mass murder? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u255	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Mrs. Taneva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u256	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Lilkov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Currently in the country there are 124 bases for intensive game management, which are essentially enclosed areas. The same besides hunting yards also serve the purpose of quarantine yards, production yards and motherly ones. It should be noted that in the last six years 31 wild game management facilities have been built in the country, and all others have been built in 1982 2004. The relatively small number of bases that have been built in recent years is mainly due to the stricter regulation introduced by the amendment and the Appendix to the 2008 hunting and game conservation law, namely the introduction of an authorisation regime for the construction of enclosed areas regardless of their area and the carrying out of a mandatory logical assessment in Natura 2000 sites. As a result of the checks carried out by the Regional Forest Directorates on the construction of enclosed areas, according to the provisions of art. 8, para. 4 of the Law found that there were no violations in the construction of such areas. All newly built bases are provided for in the established and publicly discussed hunting plans and for all newly built areas are granted permissions. Honourable Professor. Lilkov, the amendment and the Appendix to the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game is provided for in the legislative programme of the Council of Ministers for the first half of 2015. In this regard, the Executive Director of the Forestry Executive Agency has issued an order of 20 April 2015, forming a working group of experts in the field of hunting. Currently, the bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game is in internal coordination. It is published on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for Public Discussion. I suppose you know that one of the amendments provided for in this Law is precisely the introduction of a ban on the use of traps for catching live game outside the surrounding areas. I believe that the envisaged amendments and additions will overcome the shortcomings of the current legislation, reflecting on the use of game, especially in the surrounding areas, and will reduce the discontent of hunters. This Law always provokes violent debates. Apparently, there are a lot of practitioners in this hobby. I hope that in Parliament you will adopt a decision that primarily satisfies the public interest and protects the country's game and nature.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u257	Thank you. Professor Lilkov, a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u258	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'll say this: from your answer I understand that everything is legal in the construction of these fences. Yeah, it's probably legal, but I didn't hear an answer to either my first question or my second question. The first question is: what is your personal attitude to the problem? It can be expressed in a few words. Secondly, with regard to legislative initiatives, I understand that the bill provides for a ban on catches outside these traps. I'm asking: shall we ban killing inside these traps? That's what we're talking about. If any expert group in the Ministry has decided in such a way to soap the National Assembly, it will not work!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u259	That's how you see it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u260	That's how I see it. I'm asking for clarification. First of all, are these murders or not? And second, shall we ban the killing of wild animals caught from the outside and trapped inside? That's actually my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u261	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Mrs. Minister, the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u262	Honourable Professor. Lilkov, the proposed Draft Law by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has been drawn up after two round tables with all the unions, with the consensus texts that we have reached. It is your will in what form the Law will be definitively adopted... whether with the intended ban or with others. My personal opinion is this. I'm not a hunter, and I've never been interested in that. For me the forest and nature are recreation, with them I rest on a walk. For me, legislation must aim first and foremost, to protect game and preserve nature. After all, there are European countries in which I suppose this is arranged very well. Again I say: this Law has never had political decoration, but rather had different interests depending on who practiced what. I hope you'll make the best decision when you debate and vote on the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u263	Thank you. The next question to the Minister of Agriculture and Food is from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev on the intended optimization of the structure of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. Mr. Kadyev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u264	Who are you talking about?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u265	Mr. Kadiev, the question is yours. I repeat: your question to the Minister of Agriculture is the intended optimization of the structure of BABBH.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u266	If I may, you and one person can postpone the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u267	Okay, we'll exchange questions. Question from the National Representative Petar Kadiev concerning the unrestored agricultural land of residents from the village of Mogilitsa, Smolyan region. Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the inhabitants of the village of Mogilitsa and the members of the co-op....................................................................................... This case has been repeatedly referred to and discussed by the inspectors of the Regional Directorate of Forests, Ministry of Agriculture and Forests, as well as by Miroslav Naydenov. Enough arguments have been created in the documents supporting their requests. To date, however, there is no solution to the restoration of the land. Here's my question: is there a mechanism on which the request of the members of the co-operation...................... in the village of Mogilitsa to restore their forests to be examined and satisfied? If not, what is the reason for this?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u269	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Madam Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u270	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Kadiev, honourable Members of Parliament! The restoration of the right of ownership of forests and land by the forest fund shall be carried out under the Law on the restoration of ownership of forests and land by the forest fund and the Rules on its application. It is a limited forest area with lasting natural boundaries, instrumentally measured on the field and the restoration of ownership rights in it is carried out on former members of the Co-operators, partners, shareholders or their successors of Gorvodel or universal cooperatives and other legal entities deleted from the registers after 9 September 1944 with ownership as ideal parts of the The right to ownership of forests and land from the forest fund of Gorvodel or universal cooperatives which have not been deleted from the registers converted since 9 September 1944 shall be reimbursed to former member co-operators at the date of their conversion or to their successors as property, as ideal parts of No applications have been submitted in accordance with art. 13, para. 1 and para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 14 of the Law on the restoration of ownership of forests and land from the forest fund by the former member co-operators of the user co-operators............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In the map of the restored property of the village of Mogilitsa, Smolyan municipality, there are no registered cadastral units. The User Co-operate "Novak" has filed a lawsuit with a legal basis art. 13, para. 2 of the Law on the Restoration of Property of Forests and Land of the Forest Fund in front of the Smolyan Regional Court for the Establishment of Property Rights. By order of 4 January 2008, the court constituted as plaintiffs of the case heirs of the former member co-operators, as the user co-operator.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the grounds of subsequent legal acts of 2008 of the Smolyan Regional Court, since 2009 The Court of Justice of Smolyan District Court and of 2010 It is apparent from the Supreme Court of Cassation that efforts have been made by the court concerned to clarify the case and ensure the rights of defence of the plaintiffs. In the order of the Smolyan District Court it is stated that for more than a year and a half no action has been given to the application, the same being left without movement for the removal of allowed irregularities. Since these irregularities have not been removed within the time limit set by the court, the proceedings have been terminated. In the course of the proceedings were presented a certified copy of a business card from 1947, which does not cover the village of Mogilitsa, and a protocol of 29 May 1949 from a general meeting of the universal co-operative "Novak" village, the village of Mogilitsa, which identifies the members present with the respective share capital in BGN, the property shares of the owners or a partition book. In view of the above, it is clear that member co-operators of the User Co-operators of the Municipality of Novak, the village of Mogilitsa, did not take advantage of the opportunities provided by the Law for the restoration of the ownership of forests and the land of the forest fund for the administrative or judicial application of the inherited properties, respectively of their restoration.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u271	Thank you, Madam Secretary. People's representative Petar Kadiev for a replica.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u272	Thank you, Madam Minister, for this answer. As far as I understand it, this is now a legal matter. I already have a third such case, even by Dobrich had recently put such a question... for the restoration of forests and the forest fund. I think this problem isn't just in the village of Mogilitsa. It will deepen and there will be more and more. And my idea is to look for some legislative initiative that, together with you, can be improved so that they can really come back, so that there can be justice after all to these people, because in the end it is their livelihood, especially at such an end as the Smolyan region is. So I think that some mutual efforts by you, by your Ministry, along with the MPs, have spoken with the Forest Commission, they also have the same relationship with your Deputy Minister, too. We have to find some way to solve this thing. I think with a good desire and a good determination, I think we can solve this problem so that the forests can be returned. Thank you, and I think we should work together to do something about this case, but to bring back the forests and get justice to the people concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u273	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Madam Minister, do you have a wish for a duplicate?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u274	I just want to assure the MP Kadiev that if you have proposals for legislative amendments that could achieve the desired effect, of course, we will be open to them. Only in this regard, I would like to say that at the moment the law on the ownership and use of agricultural land and its amendment is also related and is related to the forthcoming agricultural campaign on pastures and measures in favour of livestock farmers is in inter-departmental coordination. It will be imported and we will ask the MPs to do this before the summer vacation so that there can be a fairer order of distribution now, for this campaign. In the course of this amendment, if you and your experts have a solution, we will be open and resolved in the public interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u275	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is from the National Representative Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev regarding the optimization of the structure of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u276	You're lucky with Qadievtsi's questions today, Mrs. Taneva. [[Radio, lines.]] Yes, the colleague Bachvarova had a similar question. Mine is a little different because of which, on the one hand, I apologize that it was asked a few months ago and because of the parliamentary procedure only today came the time for his reply. Meanwhile, the Director of the Agency has also been replaced, but as matters are important and concern living people, I would still like you to answer them once again if possible. Dear Mrs. Taneva, I have received information about the upcoming optimization of the state of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. In the opinion of the Agency's staff, with whom I met, these changes would deprive the Agency of the capacity to carry out quality control duties on food trading sites, veterinary medicinal products, veterinary medicinal products, animal health, agri-pharmacies and plant products. For example, the laboratory for plant diseases for Southern Bulgaria is closed in Burgas. Serious concern is the fact that, in most part, staff cuts are taking place in the Agency's districts in almost no reduction of the administration at central level. For example, out of the 346 employees provided for in the specialized administration, 345 are happening in district units, which will directly reduce the Agency's control capabilities, 471 people should be made redundant by the Directorate-General Verification of official controls, which is an abbreviation of more than 21% in this Directorate, which will seriously undermine the control capabilities of the Directorate, including redundancies exceeding 125 people, the total number of redundancies envisaged in a specialised administration. All this is happening against the backdrop of many criticisms of the Agency's work and against the backdrop of countless omissions in the controls carried out and at the moment by the Agency, it is particularly evident by the Agency's inability to impose effective compliance with the Public Health Act prohibiting smoking in establishments. In view of these data, please answer the following questions: how many sites in the country are under the control of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and how do you assess the ability of the Agency's staff to carry out quality and timely control over them? What is the result of the gap between the 471 redundancies envisaged in the Directorate General for Official Control and a total of 346 redundancies in the specialized administration as a whole? What is the reason why the main burden of the optimization of staff is taken over precisely by the regional food safety directorates, which precisely carry out the daily control over the sites that the Agency is tasked with controlling? What revenue does the Republic of Bulgaria collect from fines and other administrative penalties imposed by the Agency in the case of checks of the assigned sites, and how do you think 21% cutting of the main unit responsible for the checks will affect the Agency's revenue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u277	Thank you, too. Mrs. Taneva, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u278	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kadyev, under the control of the Agency are 644 thousand sites. Yes, the optimization has already been done, but I'll let you know the answer. On the basis of Decree No 8 of the Council of Ministers of 16 January 2015 on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, funds were reduced in the part of the budget of the Agency for 2015 compared to 2014. This reduction of the fund could not be compensated by a reduction in the free stats, a reduction in the number of employees released due to the acquisition of pension rights. The reduction in the number of staff is regulated by a change in the Agency's rules of procedure in Decree No 35 of the Council of Ministers of 2011, with Decree No 90 of 2015 making changes in the number of staff in administrative units. The Directorate-General for Staff Coordination and Control 2186 positions are converted into the Directorate-General for Official Control and 1715 positions, with the Departments of Border Control and the Regional Food Safety Directorates going to the Directorate for Border Control at the Agency's Central Management. The number of transferred state units total 128. It is precisely this number of stats transferred to the Agency's Central Management that the gap is due to. The number of staff in the administrative units of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency from 2663 stats is reduced to 2283 stats or the actual reduction is 380 stats. In view of the reduction in the number in the administration, the following measures and activities will be undertaken: 125 unemployed staff will be reduced at the first stage, as well as 40 retired staff members who have obtained pension rights due to their age and retirement experience. In addition to these positions, a reduction of posts by persons not falling within the categories listed above or a reduction of 215 real-time staff will be made in total. The latest amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency was developed by the previous management and was adopted. Meanwhile, the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency has changed. The new CEO amended some of the cuts, I say again, as an objective criterion. We are still analyzing both the activity and the functioning, so if there is a new view of the structure, we will introduce you to this. The realized revenues of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency for the period 1 January 2014 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, 319 thousand. BGN, a major part of them is revenue from state fees, which are collected on the basis of a tariff for the fees. For the same period, the revenue from state fees amounted to 40 million. 258 thousand. lv. In the established budget of the Agency, the amount of revenue is 46 million. 834 thousand. BGN, including revenue from state fees 183,000. lv. The reduction in the number of staff will not affect the effectiveness of the controls carried out, as well as the sanctions carried out by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency authorities in carrying out their powers. Under current European legislation, official controls on the food chain are carried out on a regular basis on the basis of a risk analysis and with the frequency required. The focus in carrying out official controls is not the number of checks carried out, but their effectiveness. The administration of BABBH is structured in central government with 33 departments, of which are 28 district directorates of food safety and 5 specialized structures, as follows: first, National Diagnostic Research Veterinary Medical Institute.Sofia; second, Central Laboratory of Veterinary Studies and Ecology.Sofia; third, Central Laboratory for Chemical Tests and Control.Sofia; fourth, Central Laboratory of Plant Quarantine Sofia; fifth, Center for Risk Assessment. Regarding the laboratory in Burgas. And you asked me that question, didn't you? Under a Commission regulation, it must be accredited for these activities and, as regards the need to fulfil these criteria, it will be repaired but not closed down.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u279	Thank you. Mr. Kadyev, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u280	Dear Mrs. Taneva, while my question was waiting for its turn on the agenda of parliament, events took place around the previous director Mr. Plamen Mollov. What the Bulgarian society understood and what I actually had to ask, if I knew what was going on then, was what was the level of corruption within the Agency; what are the measures the Ministry takes to stop this corruption; is there a business charge that they have to pay for? It created the feeling that there is even more corrupt than customs, tax and all the other systems that we think are very corrupt. Is there a pyramid created where the lower levels collect money for the higher levels they collect for the even higher levels and eventually reach the Ministry of Agriculture and Food? All this, of course, I couldn't ask because I didn't know what was going on. This incident, medialy reflected, has shown enough clarity and why the Food Agency is not dealing with effective control because of corruption, in the first place. So my question now is if you can answer: first, what measures have you taken in the Ministry to prevent this from happening again? Secondly, you said: the laboratory in Burgas is not closed. However, I would like to quote a public procurement that I learned about a few hours ago. This is a contract with regard to the implementation of the State Prevention Programme, which does not include requirements for brucellosis vaccine, Bruceloidosis, washer and leptospirosis. And then it makes sense, if they are not going to be paid by the State Prevention Program, they should be transferred to private laboratories. You just said there was no transfer, which is the next charge, which was to Mr Mollov that he was pushing activities from state laboratories to private.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u281	He's your shot.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u282	No, he's not our shot, he's a shot of NDSV.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u283	I'm gonna have to ask you to stay out of this conversation mode right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u284	Two questions, Ms. Taneva: what are you doing about corruption and what are you doing about activities carried out by state laboratories not being transferred to private laboratories? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u285	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. A hole, Madam Minister, if you will. Please, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u286	Mr. Kadyev, thank you for the interesting question. I think he's the actual question. I cannot, without proof, judge's judgment, tell from this tribune to what extent corruption is, who is the most corrupt and how many levels. I can only answer for the doubts that there are in me, and not from today as a minister, but from the time I was an opposition MP of the government, which it was, Mr. Kadiev, if my memory does not lie to me, with your mandate. When we formed a government and the political cabinet of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is formed, the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, caught up in your mandate, Mr. Kadiev, was Prof. Mollov. [[Reply from BSP LB.]] We changed it. Yes, we changed it precisely in relation to those signals that I also had as an opposition MP. Directors of processing companies from all over Northeastern Bulgaria came to my reception in the electoral district.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u287	Did you give them to the D.A.?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u288	The colleagues who complained had given it to them. I'm not an investigative body. However, I have done what society and business doubted. That is why, frankly, I hope that the cuts, the percentage which, as amended by the Rules of Procedure, must have been made, are indeed for people who have abused office and have not worked in the public interest. I have no doubt that the number of staff of the Agency is sufficient to do its job effectively, but given the signals I have received, I have doubts about their integrity, and not today. I say, from the time of your term, Mr. Kadiev, were these signals, including entire branch organizations. But there's one more thing I have to say: "You know who was the man who made public the doubts they had. The levels of corruption in the country, Mr. Kadiev, depend on how much civil society will deal with this corruption or fight against it. In this sense, I use the stands to thank those who had the courage to go out into the media space and say that they were directly injured. Of course, in order for there to be an effective, good country, there must also be an effective body that says what the crime is, and punishes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u289	Thank you, Madam Secretary. It's 14.02 minutes. We will only have time for one more parliamentary question and it is Mr. Ivan Stankov's to the Minister of Agriculture and Food to compensate the farmers' losses for the low buying prices of milk. Here you go, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u290	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Perhaps I was a little late to put my question, as there were similar questions at previous meetings. I can also point out that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has taken measures and to some extent compensates for the Bulgarian dairy producers, but the problem of milk prices remains, and it is becoming more serious and more serious. It is known to everyone that this is caused by the release of quotas in the European Union, and another reason is that we have a higher milk cost due to low productivity and other reasons which, in any case, we need to overcome further. My question relates to this: what additional measures, beyond what has been done, takes the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to compensate the Bulgarian milk producers, because only under the measure of de minimis............................ what has been done is insufficient to save Bulgarian dairy livestock?..................................................... The problem continues to stand, and it is with all its seriousness. Before I came in here, I heard from some farmers who are waiting for your answer. Thank you for your attention, but we're waiting for the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u291	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u292	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Stankov, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Unfortunately, I will not be able to announce news that is not known to the sector or industry organizations with which we communicate constantly and which news may be expected, but in any case we need to be aware that a request for financial support or compensation alone will in no way solve this issue in the long term. The price of milk across the European Union is falling at a record rate. I would say that Bulgaria is not even the worst situation since the fall of milk quotas and the effect of the Russian embargo. This should not be withheld in any case, because it is also the cause of the collapse, as well as the sharp reduction in requests for the purchase of milk from the Community market and milk products from China.. They have led to this crisis. After the deminissis, today is the last day on which they will receive their funds, I can only confirm that there is a change of the Regulation on the labelling and presentation of foods, which will lead to a voluntary requirement on the label of agricultural products and foodstuffs produced in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, of at least 75% raw materials obtained in the territory of the country, to put an inscription on the label of Bulgarian raw materials. We will restart the school milk scheme, but from the new school year 2015/2016, predicting this to happen with a budget scheme of 7 million. lv. According to this planned budget for the school year, 2 million should be implemented. 400,000. Literature of fresh milk and 2 million kg of yogurt or 309 thousand. kg of cheese or cheese. Apart from that are the schemes with European support. Apart from that, it is not even new because it has been communicated, as I have already announced in my reply to one of the previous questions, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land, with which we will provide for order, which the parliament voted on at a certain date. We've proposed a date. Anyone who does not have an animal unit per hectare according to the norm, his contracts do not have legal basis and cannot be declared subsidies in order to be granted to the Bulgarian livestock farmers. I pay attention to the producer organisation scheme, as a larger supply organisation would be a motive for asking for a higher price and the producers should consider it. Our expectation remains of our request made many times as early as December for direct financial support with European funds from the Commission. So far, there is no positive answer. Rather, there is no answer, so we are waiting even for a minimum package of support from there, as it was granted to three North European countries, whose over half of the dairy production was directed to the Russian market.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u293	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Stankov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u294	Thank you, Madam Minister, for the answers you gave. I understand that the problem can hardly be solved in this global European and global crisis and overproduction of milk and dairy products. I will make several proposals because together, we must jointly look for solutions to the problems. Firstly, I believe that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food should take additional measures to compensate our dairy farmers and for the survival of Bulgarian dairy farming. We have a report that Romanians are asking in Brussels about national payments. Can we join these questions to do something for our Bulgarian dairy farmers? Secondly, we must do everything we can to restore the markets to the fall of the embargo, because our warehouses are clogged with dairy products. This is an additional factor that prevents dairy production in Bulgaria. Thirdly, I think the moment is ripe, we have talked at many levels about integration between dairy farmers, milk processors and traders. We have to do this because it's ready. If we close the cycle, I think we'll be able to solve problems to a large extent. The fourth thing I would like to offer you is that we must put order in the import of dry and condensed milk. As far as I have information, condensed milk is taxed as a unit and diluted four times. Our dairy farmers think it's a gray economy. You have to bet in full. I think together, we can solve some of the problems together, at least what is possible at the stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u295	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u296	Honourable Professor. Stankov, thank you for your suggestions. What can I say as a comment? We could also give an example of a larger budget at the moment under the instrument. If it is with national funds, it is about the national budget. Even the funds that we have now given for a deminimism of 26 million levs, they were not set for such help a deminimization in the budget we have. The issue here is about national funds which could be allocated under the current budget for such additional support. We can give by deminism, we can in principle notify additional State aid if we had national funds laid down for such support. We have also asked the Commission, together with Romania, to define a European financial package for direct support to dairy farmers. I hope, in view of the deepening crisis and the lack of any data from any member state to restore the markets, that we will receive at least a partial satisfaction of the request we have had for several months. For all the other measures in practice, the most important is the demand and finding of new markets. The only novelty we have made with state aid has supported a dairy organisation at the US Exhibition on the possible dairy market there. Regarding the control, I would like to inform you, at the request of the branch organizations, with the Director of the National Revenue Agency, we spoke at the end of last week and at the beginning of this week and together with the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency are on a schedule regarding joint checks with milk producers on compliance with the tax and food legislation in Bulgaria. I hope this works. The crisis is very serious, first of its kind since 2008. This should in no case lead to tension between producers and processors. We must try to comply with the law on both sides, taking into account the difficulties that everyone should be involved in overcoming the crisis in order to get out of it with the least damage. This should not be used as an excuse to set the two points in the chain against each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-19.u297	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Due to the passing of the time of today's plenary session, I declare the sitting closed. The next regular meeting of the National Assembly is on Wednesday, 24 June 2015, at 9:00 a.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
