ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. I suggest to your attention a draft program for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 10 to 12 June 2015: 1. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. The Committee on Budget and Finance. 2. Draft Decision on the adoption of the Rules on the procedure for the discussion and adoption of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer supposed committee to discuss the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. 3. First vote on the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Forest Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America to improve compliance with international tax legislation and the implementation of FATCA. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Adopted on 9 April 2015 in the first vote. 5. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Underground Treasures. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Railway Transport Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 7. First vote on bills amending and supplementing the Labour Code. Four bills of 27 October 2014 with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, 27.10.2014; one draft of Petar Kanev and a group of MPs; one draft of Petar Slavov and a group of MPs; and one draft of the Council of Ministers. A total of seven draft laws on a joint debate on this item. 7 to change the Labour Code. 8. First vote on Bills amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Registration. Importers "Ljutvi Mestan" and a group of MPs; Iliya Iliev and a group of MPs; Council of Ministers; Maya Manolova and a group of MPs; and Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs. 9. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. A joint project was drawn up on the basis of the laws adopted in the first vote on 25 March 2015 with importers: Council of Ministers; Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs; Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. 10. Draft decision on the extension of the report of the Temporary Committee of inquiry to examine the facts and circumstances related to the actions of state authorities and institutions, which should have exercised control and countered the draining of the Corporate Commercial Bank in the period 2009 - 2014. Importers These are the members of the Temporary Commission. This is intended to be point one for Friday 12 June 2015. 11. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Credit Institutions. Importers Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. On a general decision of the Conference of Presidents as point 2 for Friday, 12 June 2015, the Council of Presidents adopted Decision (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2015 appointing the members and 12. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping. A joint project was drawn up on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 22 April 2015 with the importers of the Council of Ministers; and the MPs Plamen Manushev, Ivan Valkov and Pavel Hristov. 13. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 " 103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, in its usual day and hour "Friday at 11:00 p.m. Please vote, fellow Members. They voted 145 MPs: 132, none, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules have received several proposals on behalf of parliamentary groups through MPs. The first at the time is the MP Yanaki Stoilov, who offers inclusion in the weekly program of the Bill for Supplement to the Law on Veterans of Wars. Mr. Stoilov, you have the opportunity to defend your offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We propose that a change to the War Veterans Act be included in the weekly program. Its goal is to include the participants in the anti-fascist resistance in the Bulgarian Army during World War II. These around 2000 people left to enjoy the same opportunities that the law provides in terms of their assistance, treatment and transport, if they are able to benefit. The costs of this additional category per year amount to several million levs, so there can be no financial obstacles. Here the issue is almost entirely in the field of leveling the status of these persons, of welfare, which I think the Bulgarian Parliament should demonstrate, because the attitude across Europe towards this category of veterans is very different today than, unfortunately, among certain circles in Bulgarian society. The Bulgarian Parliament would give a very strong sign of both consent and respect and respect, especially after the 70th anniversary of the victory over fascism and the end of World War II was celebrated recently. We have one of the few last opportunities as long as these people are alive, they get this well-deserved recognition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u3	I put to the vote Mr. Stoilov's proposal for inclusion in the weekly programme of this Bill. They voted 147 MPs: 49, against 43, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear MPs, why is it important to show respect for the few recognized anti-fascists? Because pro-fascist statements are reappearing. For example, the statement of the mayor of Kyustendil not to vote on ethnic lines, or the statement of a minister that they will not enter ambulances in communities with separate ethnic places. These days we witnessed a reconstruction from Belene. It would have been interesting if yesterday someone had reenacted since June 9th and in particular...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u5	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u6	The procedure is to reschedule the issue of providing anti-fascists, Lazarov, anti-fascists! [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] Because you are descendants of communist families, but somehow you're ashamed of your anti-fascist... [[Private applause by BSP LB.]] So, Madam President, I ask you to put the proposal to a re-vote. I hope a little more anti-fascist attitude will be this National Assembly thank you. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u7	It's a re-vote. They voted 152 MPs: 52, against 53, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from Mrs. Magdalena Tasheva, who proposes the inclusion of a project for a decision to prevent immigrants from the Middle East and North Africa, including refugees from the Syrian Arab Republic on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Chukolov will defend the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! This decision by Ataka, which we propose to enter the weekly program, is not anti-fascist, it is Bulgarian because it protects the Bulgarian national interest. We are talking about these immigrants, refugees, aliens, as we of "Attack" we call them, who come here, enter Bulgarian territory. What are they doing? They enter our homeland and accordingly burden our social system in the first place. Then the National Security Agency, which should tell us to the MPs, to the Bulgarian society, to the government in Bulgaria, are there terrorists among them, are there any questionable elements among them? DANS is not working on this. We don't have that information. Much of these so-called refugees, in fact, aliens then want to go to Western Europe. Western Europe brings them back to us. In the past, the National Assembly put this topic. We put the theme of building a fence on the border with Turkey a fence that would not allow these aliens on Bulgarian territory. Somehow the subject was developed, a fence started to be built then. We now see in this National Assembly that this process continues. But what we have learned in the past National Assembly, thanks to the questions to the then representatives of the Internal Office, is that these aliens burden the Bulgarian state in a scary way. A thousand and a hundred leva cost the support of a refugee from Bulgaria. A thousand and a hundred leva! You know perfectly well what is the pension of a Bulgarian pensioner, what is the minimum, what is the average salary in Bulgaria. Incomparable values. That is why we from the Council of Ministers are asking for and proposing this decision, which is one sentence: "It gives the Council of Ministers the right to take all necessary actions and acts to prevent immigrants from the Middle East and North Africa, including refugees from the Syrian Arab Republic in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. "In this way, with such a decision and the executive authority in Bulgaria will have its basis when talking with its fellow prime ministers from the European Union. I hope you will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. Please vote, colleagues. They voted 147 MPs: 27, against 67, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, this debate is now unfolding in the European Union, this discussion is about immigrants entering Europe, whether they should be distributed in terms of quota principle, in principle, on the gross domestic product of each individual country, how to make sure that every country in the European Union is adequately and in the same way as its resources, this refugee pressure that it has on the European Union. The position we need to take from Bulgaria is that we do not want any more immigrants, foreigners on Bulgarian territory. Because, as I said, they're burdening our weak country in every way anyway. This debate is yet to come. On this debate, the Bulgarian Council of Ministers, the Bulgarian representatives in the European institutions must take note. With such a decision of the Bulgarian National Assembly that we do not want such alien refugees, migrants, immigrants, as you would call them, we know perfectly well what this is about, but with one such decision we will actually do and we will give a huge lever in the hands of the people who represent the Bulgarian state. We have no right to abstain here, and we are obliged to take an active position and express our opinion. I therefore propose again that this item be entered into the weekly agenda of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. Revoting, coworkers. They voted 150 MPs: 29, against 72, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from the MP Ilian Todorov who proposes the inclusion of the draft Law on Utilization, Destruction of Munitions, with. No 454-01-3 of 27 October 2014 Here you go, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, on behalf of "Attack" I am making a proposal for inclusion as an item on the agenda of the upcoming weekly program of the National Assembly of the Project for the Law on Utilization, the disposal of ammunition. Some of you, colleagues who are also in the Defence Committee, know that we have introduced this draft Law a long time ago. We even looked at it in the Defence Committee on 11 December 2014. Even then colleagues from GERB said that this is the right step, that it must come to such a law, because we see what is happening at this time.............................................................................................................................................................. It wasn't Gorni Lom, the Five-Four, Chelopere, anywhere else. Victims. We are currently looking at an extremely wrong model for us from an attack in which private companies are seizing the armaments of a number of countries. The whole world here sends its ammunition, which is utilized by people who have absolutely no qualifications. It's very important to say this. And because of the exact lack of qualification these explosions happen, which, on the other hand, endanger the lives of both Bulgarian citizens and their property. In this draft law we propose that the utilization and disposal of ammunition in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria should be carried out only by the state and in particular by the Ministry of Defence and State Enterprises, the state companies that are to it, where there are built, ready specialists who can deal with these problems. Let us not forget that this is a huge business that carries hundreds, hundreds of millions, indeed, throughout the world, so we have now left some private companies that have no expertise to earn similar hundreds of millions at the expense of the entire society. Yes, and then in the Commission some colleagues continued to repeat the mantra that the state was a bad owner. Just to tell you that a similar utilization of ammunition is carried out within the European Union by a number of state-owned companies. My request is: support this proposal, because otherwise the explosions will continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u13	I put to the vote the proposal made to include this draft law in the weekly programme. They voted 152 MPs: 57, against 52, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u14	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I do not understand why you reject this proposal. Are we waiting for something new to blow up, to have new victims, is that what we're waiting for? Actually, it's completely irresponsible. I am telling you that, as early as December 11th, when you rejected this Project in the Defence Committee, then I told you on behalf of the And they moved on. We have turned out to be bad prophets again. Today we are telling you from "Attack" again: insert this, let's look at it, come up with arguments, with arguments, because otherwise the explosions will really continue! And they're gonna keep going. And the people who are victims of the incompetence of private companies who are admitting this right now, their lives will be on you!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u15	It's a re-vote. Vote 152 MPs: 62, Against 55, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is Mr. Volen Siderov on a draft decision to impose a moratorium on increasing the prices of electricity and heat. Here you are, Mr. Siderov, to protect your offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I propose that a draft decision to impose a moratorium on increasing the prices of electricity and heat with reasons for the National Assembly should enter into the agenda. I do not need to convince you that this is an extremely up-to-date draft decision. It has already been imported several times to the National Assembly. It was rejected by various members of the National Assembly. Now I suggest that you correct the mistakes of previous National Assembly configurations today, accept this proposal of ours, get on the agenda of this draft decision. It reads as follows for those who have not been acquainted with it: It imposes a moratorium on increasing the prices of electricity and heat, the prices do not become higher than the current values, for a period of six months; it imposes on the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to provide and implement the financing of electricity and heat production, given the differences in production value and prices of end-users, where the production price is lower than the price for the consumer and obliges the Ministry of Economy, Energy and Tourism to develop an up-to-date methodology for determining the difference between the production price and the current price for consumers, according to the conditions. That is, we are proposing that prices be frozen at the moment, not increased. You already know that since July 1st the price of electricity is expected to rise for both consumers and companies. Representatives of the Bulgarian business even threatened that they would want the resignation of the Minister of Economy, as they say that in this way their increase in electricity will already fail. This will lead to new unemployment. This will lead to a new social crisis. For consumers who are not companies, let alone. They long ago, some of them couldn't pay their electricity, so our proposal is to stop the electricity rising from July 1st, freeze it with this draft decision and assign the Ministry of Economy and Energy to develop a strategy. What does that mean? This means the price of electricity to be determined in a fairer way, to be taken on the basis of the lowest price of electricity, not at the highest. All this is something that can be done and should be done. Thank you. I call on you to vote on this!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u17	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. Voting mode. 140 MPs voted: 50, against 46, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. Please come in for a re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I propose a rethink of this proposal you've heard. I address you as a citizen, as a person of the Bulgarian people: today you have the opportunity to do one good, to freeze the price of electricity. This increase, which has been announced, which we hear and is confirmed by the President of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, has also been heard today in the media. He's confirmed he's gonna go up. It was a little bit by 3%, with a lot of pennies. Yeah, five million at 50 cents! The profits of these companies, which have been exploiting the Bulgarian consumer and Bulgarian business for ten years, are huge. It is high time for the state to really become a regulator, to say: "No, I'm not going to freeze now! It's not about something of great durability. Six months in which the Bulgarian government will draw up a strategy. I do not know which parliamentary group is against this and which would argue against. I'd love to hear it. I call on you once again to vote for a moratorium on the price of electricity and heat and to draw up a strategy for their future price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u19	Revoting, coworkers. They voted 145 MPs: 53, against 50, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is by the MPs Maya Manolova and Dora Yankova for inclusion in the weekly Programme at the first reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, with importers Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. We're listening, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u20	Honourable Members, Madam President! The bill, which we insist on entering Parliament's Agenda for this week, is linked to the early retirement of workers working under the conditions of first and second categories of work, in particular the retirement of the miners, the people who work in a difficult and dangerous environment for their lives and health, at risk to life and to their future and to their families. We made this commitment with Ms. Dora Yankova to the miners to submit the bill to a meeting in Madan. The meeting was attended by Mr. Hassan Ademov and Mr. Karadayi. They were also able to convince themselves that the miners were reluctant to accept the pension reform required by the ruling majority. The day of our visit coincided with another tragic fatal accident in which a young man under the age of 30 lost his life with a family and a young child in the complex and difficult environment of the underground miners. We met and heard pathetic life stories about a miner who worked under the ground for 20 years and who, because of the growing age, would retire further and further in time, for people who, because of the withdrawal of the opportunity to retire to 45 years, would also not be able to retire, although they gave their lives, health and the future of their families for hard work underground. We have made a commitment to submit this bill, to oppose the pension reform of the ruling majority, and we are doing so today. If the MPs of GERB are not convinced of the justice of our demands, I really advise them to meet with the underground miners, because otherwise they, as well as the police, will soon come to parliament and will meet you here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. I put to the vote the proposal to include the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code in our weekly Programme. They voted 153 MPs: 56 against 25, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. Iankova Hanım.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I appeal to the MPs today in the debate on pension reform, not actually a pension reform, but a package of proposals for correction, to give social peace and calm to the people I hope you have the will. Moreover, in the discussion by the Tripartite Council, what came out in the media space, the Prime Minister announced: "We have agreed on the miners, we will not increase the age. " In fact, it will become, colleagues, not 45, but 50 years, it will become not 50 years, but 55, that is, what they have not agreed, will be legitimized through us, will be validated by our vote, we will increase the age for both the underground and for the first category of people. In my constituency, I hope, and Mrs Daritkova, and Mrs Karadayiy, and Mr. Kadiev to support miners. The working conditions are not yet such that we place them in a long stay below, underground, for up to 50 years. I appeal to you to vote with your conscience, to give social peace and then to actually debate the package of government proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u23	Revoting, coworkers. Vote 151 MPs: 58, against 25, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. Honourable Members of Parliament, at the Conference of Presidents earlier this morning, we agreed to propose to the plenary that we vote on a decision to hold an extraordinary plenary session on Tuesday, 16 June 2015, from 11.00 to 18.00. This proposal shall be made on the basis of art. 45, para. 3 of our Rules of Procedure, under which we can adopt similar decisions for holding meetings outside of the Rules of Procedure from Wednesday to Friday. I propose to your attention a draft decision to convene an extraordinary plenary session on 16 June 2015, Tuesday, from 11.00 to 18:00 on the following agenda: Point one: Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act. Importer "The Council of Ministers," a continuation of the plenary session on the previous Thursday. Please vote. [[Reply from MP Mihail Mikov.]] They've been warned, Mr. Mikov, about the quorum. Thank you for reminding me. They voted 145 MPs: 118, against 18, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 3 to 9 June 2015. Bill amending and supplementing the Credit Institutions Act. Importers are Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It has also been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A bill amending the Road Transport Act. Importers are Tsvetomir Mihov and Ivan Valkov. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway on the avoidance of double taxation of income. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. It's a bill to close the National Grain Service. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. Draft Decision on the adoption of Rules on the procedure for discussing and adopting the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The importer is Dimitar Lazarov, Chairman of the Temporary Commission. Draft Law amending the Bulgarian National Bank Act. Importers are Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. Bill amending and supplementing the Municipal Debt Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Bill amending and supplementing the BULSTAT Registry Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft decision on the transformation of the Faculty of Public Health and Sport in the structure of the South-West University of Neofit Rilski. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Health and the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions. Importer is the Council of Ministers. There's a distribution coming up. The bill came in late this afternoon yesterday. Draft decision to extend the deadline for the submission of the report of the Temporary Committee of inquiry to examine the facts and circumstances related to the actions of state authorities and institutions, which should have exercised control and counteracted the draining of the Corporate Commercial Bank in the period 2009-2014. Importers are Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. With a letter in my letter. No 554-00-612 of 4 June 2015, on the basis of art. 82 of the Rules of Procedure of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Beekeeping Act No 554-01-108, submitted on 29 May 2015 by Rumen Hristov and a group of MPs, withdrew the submitted bill. The signatures of all the former importers are included. On 5 June 2015 he received and distributed to the MPs a general draft of the bills amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Area adopted on the first vote on 28 May 2015. The project was drawn up by the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government on the grounds of art. 88, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote, which shall be until 12 June 2015, Friday, including. Here I would like to remind you that, according to the procedural proposals of the MPs Mrs. Kotseva and Mr. Slavov, last week we adopted an extension of the deadline for proposals, but this decision is premature because at this time the joint report was not announced. Similar proposals must yet be made if you are holding this to happen after we begin the plenary sitting in its legislative part. Messages from the National Statistical Institute. Information was also received which contains results from statistical surveys on gross domestic product in the first quarter of 2015. supposed data; labour productivity, employed persons and time spent in the first quarter of 2015 supposed data; R & D indexes in the Section of the R &amp; D &amp; B; Industrial Production Indexes, Construction Production Indexes. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria a declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u24	DECLARATION of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Socialists Party left Bulgaria Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! A few days before we pay tribute to Botev's memory and those who died for the freedom of Bulgaria, our society witnessed an outrageous reconstruction, recreating past dramatic and controversial historical episodes. Belene became a scene of a religious political event where children were involved in an unacceptable way. The play "Most Between Generations" organized by Father Paolo Cortezy could be categorized in many ways, but in no case as a tool for building historical memory. Today, when violence in schools, fighting between children, killing minors is everyday, attempts through children executioners and children victims to recreate controversial facts from the past does not build historical memory. In our country's history, there are many minor events, but the responsibility for all of us is to learn the lessons from them and to be precise in the messages we send to the young. Let us remind you that the concentration camps in Bulgaria were created in the time of fascism under the name "State Security Villages." They were built by decision of the Minister of Interior on 31 January 1941, approved by the Council of Ministers of Bogdan Filov, nearly a year after the Bulgarian government joined Bulgaria to the Trilateral Pact. That's how it started. In June 1941 the water camps were created for men and St. Nicholas for women in Asenovgrad. The camp in Belene was opened in 1949. It accommodated both political opponents of power and criminal criminals. The camp was closed 10 years later by a decision of the then Politburo, meaning by the same authority that discovered it after they found that there were perversions and violence in the camp. We Bulgarian Socialists honor all innocent victims of the bloody political opposition in Bulgaria from June 9, 1923 to 1989. Today on the island of Persin near Belene there is a monument and other memorial signs in memory of the victims. From what we saw in Belene on May 30, we remain convinced that a priest had left the field of preaching and had hired to organize political events with children. The MPs from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria express our deep outrage about involving children in similar scenes with marked political goals as well as turning them into executioners and victims. Treating His Holiness Pope Francis's work with respect to his march for more goodness and humanity in our world, we are anxious to share the lack of touch between what the Holy See preaches and what a late crusader of the Cold War is trying to do in Bulgaria. We are addressing all political parties, public organisations and responsible institutions for a clear distinction from the use of children for political purposes. We appeal to unite the efforts of Bulgaria's children to be brought up in patriotic and historical memory. Let us not make them an instrument of political opposition! Let them not be executioners and victims! [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u25	Are there any other declarations from parliamentary groups? I won't. Point one: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND RESTRUCTURING CANDIDATES FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF THE BULGARIAN PEOPLE'S BANK, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND HEARING OF CANDIDATES IN THE BUDGET AND FINLAND COMMISSION, LIKE THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTION. A report of the Committee on Budget and Finance has been submitted containing the draft decision. Mrs. Stoyanova, please provide us with the report of your committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u26	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a draft decision adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance and the procedure for election by the National Assembly At a meeting held on 4 June 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed procedural rules for holding a public procedure under art. 89 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for the election of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. The adoption of Rules of Procedure is necessary in relation to the election of a new governor of the Bulgarian National Bank with a view to the expiry of the mandate of Ivan Iskrov. The Members of the National Assembly discussed the draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, No 554-02-51, submitted by Emil Dimitrov and a group of MPs and united around the idea that these should be incorporated into these Rules of Procedure. The Committee on Budget and Finance with 17 votes for.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Project! DECISION adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance and the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly I. Offering candidates as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank and presenting their documents. 1. A proposal for a candidate for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank shall be made by the parliamentary groups or by MPs not members of a parliamentary group. The proposal shall be submitted in writing to the Committee on Budget and Finance through the President of the National Assembly within 7 days of the adoption of these Rules of Procedure by the National Assembly. 2. The proposal for a candidate for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank is accompanied by written reasons that justify the good professional reputation of the candidate. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: (a) written consent of the applicant according to the template of Annex 1 to the decision; (b) a detailed CV; (c) documents certifying the professionalism of the applicant in the field of economy, finance and banking (diploma for completed higher education, certificates, recommendations for positions held and acquired specializations in the field of economy, finance and banking and the like); (d) a criminal record; (e) a statement in the template "Annex 2" to the decision that there are no circumstances under art. 11 [[(there is a technical error here, Madam President, instead of para. Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the ……]] , al. 4 t. 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank; II. Public disclosure of documents. The proposal, together with the documents attached to it, shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly no later than seven days before the hearing. The publication of the proposal and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions on the applicant to the Committee on Budget and Finance not later than three days before the hearing of the applicant, including questions to be addressed to the Committee on Budget and Finance. The media may send questions to the Committee on Budget and Finance to the candidate to be asked. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. "Knyaz Aleksandar I " No 1, Budget and Finance Committee, or e-mail address of the Budget and Finance Committee. Opinions and questions shall be published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. The candidate's hearing. 1. Before hearing the proposed candidate, the Budget and Finance Committee shall verify the documents submitted and whether the applicant complies with the requirements for the post for which he is proposed. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. The applicant shall be submitted by the proposer.. Within two minutes. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Personal presentation of the candidate and of his concept of the activities of the Bulgarian National Bank in 20 minutes. 5. Presentation in summary of the opinions and questions of the persons referred to in art. 89, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, if any, shall be represented within two minutes each. 6. The applicant's reply to the submitted opinions and the questions raised within 10 minutes. 7. Questions from the Members of the National Assembly within two minutes. 8. The applicant's response to the questions raised by the Members of the National Assembly will be up to 10 minutes. 9. The Commission may request additional information from both the applicant and the relevant competent authority. 10. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 11. The Commission shall draw up within the meaning of art. 89, para. 5 of the substation report from the applicant's hearing. If several candidates for a position have been heard, the Commission shall draw up a report from the hearing of the candidates, to which a list of candidates participating in the hearing shall be attached, alphabetically arranged for their own names and shall submit it to the National Assembly. The report shall be accompanied by a draft decision on the selection of each candidate for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. IV. Election of a candidate for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank by the National Assembly. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. By decision of the National Assembly the proposed candidate is present at the meeting. 2. The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. Each candidate shall be represented by the applicant within two minutes. 4. Discussions shall be held on the application under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the names of the candidates, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the House shall be elected. 7. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held, in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for. 8. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. Annex 1 and Annex 2 to the decision on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. The debate is open. Are there any MPs who want to take a stand? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would just like to recall that, according to the Bulgarian National Bank Act, the term of office of the current Governor of Bulgaria expires on 10 October 2015. According to the same Law, the procedure of choice or choice must be no earlier than three months, i.e. on 10 July 2015, at the earliest on 10 July we can choose the new Governor. Before that we can deal with any procedures, but if we choose it before 10 July 2015, the choice is disputed. Of course, there is a hypothesis that the European Central Bank has said that if a governor resigns, the next one who replaces him must immediately have a procedure, will drive a new term, not bring the old one forward. Any other change should be agreed with the European Central Bank and we are in the hypothesis if we now start a procedure and even choose, then this choice should be contested if it is before 10 July 2015. Of course, if he didn't have this threat to life, health to the governor and political self-righteousness, and verbal political suggestion, he might have resigned earlier, but he could have. Either way we have to make the choice, just remind it this way. On this proposal we have two points that we want to change. The first is that the proposals for candidates for governor of BNB can be made by parliamentary groups, by MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups. I intend to make a proposal, of course, if it is adopted by you, that the text be: "The proposal for a candidate for governor of BNB is made by a MP, by a group of MPs or parliamentary groups. Why? Because, according to the powers conferred on them by the Law and the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, they could initiate any change of law and they themselves could initiate new laws, and could not offer the choice of governor of BNB. The opportunity provided for at present only to be made proposals by parliamentary groups or MPs not members of parliamentary groups, except that it creates obvious inequality between the Members of the National Assembly, which enjoy equal rights established by type, volume guaranteed by the law and functions, is in practice directly contrary to the Rules of Organization and the activities of the National Assembly, where according to art. 85, para. The project for decision, declaration and address can be submitted by MPs and parliamentary groups. Nowhere is the restriction of Members of the National Assembly not to join a parliamentary group. Perhaps between the words of the Members of Parliament and the parliamentary groups the Union has been put in place and not the Union. So my proposal is to be: by the MPs, by a group of MPs, no matter what parliamentary group they are members of, by the parliamentary groups. My second proposal, so I don't go out again...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u29	You can't do that. Now, now is the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u30	Okay, thanks. The candidates...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u31	Which dot is that?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u32	The documents which are.................................................................................... 2 where it writes: "The following documents shall apply to the proposal: Point 2 "Applications to develop in writing and submit in writing to the Committee on Budget and Finance to the National Assembly within the relevant period their own concept of development and management of BNB, including strategic objectives and priorities for the next six years and a programme for the implementation of the proposed management objectives, as well as a motivated concept for the development of the banking sector. Why am I mentioning it? Still...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u33	Are you offering this as a new additional point after letter.....................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u34	It could be after a letter, it could be a letter, as you see fit. The point is that this guy...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u35	You're making the offer. Whatever you say, I'll put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u36	Okay, it's a letter. Why? To explain to my colleagues. This man will oversee 29 banks. Everything that has happened at the moment and, to some extent, found us unprepared, should motivate us more carefully to look at the person who, over the next six years, will supervise all these banks, will dispose of the money of the entire society and of the state to some extent. We therefore want to have his concept of how he sees development, how he sees entry into the central European Union and everything else that is necessary in order to have a clearer and more accurate picture, when the choice comes here, to be subject to the right to an informed choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u37	Can you give me the second offer, since it's longer and I couldn't write it down? [[The National Representative Emil Dimitrov gives the proposal to the President.]] Thank you. Replices to Mr. Dimitrov? Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u38	Mr. Dimitrov was one of the importers of the draft decision which was incorporated 1 to 1 to the Rules which the Commission made. It's weird to me that what he wants now, somehow, he didn't turn it on at the time. Either way, the rules that were tabled at his initiative are actually 100% incorporated. I want to focus on three things that Mr. Dimitrov noted. First, really, if the manager of BNB does not resign, we must choose the new governor, I say we should choose the governor and not start and conduct the procedure at the earliest on 10 July, when the deadline for the election of the new governor begins by law, as the term of office of the current governor of BNB expires on 10 October. So I don't see any drama here. On the contrary, it is responsible for the National Assembly to initiate the procedure and be ready within the earliest possible time. Mr. Emil Dimitrov's second proposal was discussed quite thoroughly in the Committee on Budget and Finance and was not adopted, namely, not parliamentary groups, but every one of the MPs to be able to make a proposal for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. I believe that the Rules do not treat this as an opportunity or a ban, but through it the National Assembly is organised in parliamentary groups. The MPs in these parliamentary groups are elected with the ballot of this party and the most normal is to reach consensus in the parliamentary groups for one or another nomination to be submitted. It is not serious for 240 MPs to start making individual proposals for applications. We discussed it very seriously. I believe that what is proposed in the draft decision is the right one. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u39	Time's up for the line. You can take a statement later. Second line? Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u40	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, your proposals are appropriate, but by making proposals for concepts, for the development of BNB policy, then make an offer for the team that will manage BNB. Because you know very well that at the moment, one of the governors is suspended, the other is running out of term on 23 October, and it would be most appropriate for us to consider both the election of a governor and the vice-presidents jointly. That's my cue to you. Don't be so modest!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u41	Third line? A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u42	Thank you, Madam President. I agree with Mrs. Menda Stoyanova that the text we proposed was incorporated. We have come a long way from showing her the Governor, to make a pret-a-porte, in fact pret-a-BNB, and it turns out that only today, if we accept the procedure, can we start all these divorces in halls and show our nominations, because otherwise we will remain in the parking lot in front of the BNB or the former Party House, which is now being conducted...............................................the National Assembly................ My proposal remains valid, and it's exactly the same. If we go under the terms of the negotiating colleague, we can say this: The future governor will have at least two mandates as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank or it is easier to say Ivan Iskrov because he can resign and act the next day. Any reasoning on this subject could have been made. You do it. What we want is for the powers of the Constitution, which each Member of the National Assembly has, to be applied also in this form, because we, in order to be as close to a possible procedure that has been used, have taken the one that is for the election of the Court of Auditors to a position that is similar to the post of the financial system. We have only changed the conditions that are requested for BNB and it cannot not be accepted because only 20 days or a month ago we have voted under this procedure for the election of President. It can't be the same way it doesn't go through with the procedure now. That's the first point. Secondly, we soon elected members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on 18 March 2015. Then the approach for submitting the proposals was How can we decide in just two months that the MPs have the right to submit applications and now that we do not have to hide them behind parliamentary groups? Then we change the Rules and only a parliamentary group can initiate a legislative change. In any case, the text of art. 85, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly writes:..Projects on decisions, declarations and addresses can import the MPs and the parliamentary groups. My proposal remains valid. Of course, you will vote and decide which text to be. There won't be more than 7 people. Of course, half are planted so that they can give up in favor of the winning candidate. To the winner, congratulations! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u43	Here's your speech, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u44	Madam President, I take the floor because I have not been able to develop my opinion on Mr. Emil Dimitrov's proposals within the two minutes of the reply, namely to point. 3 suggests that a new point.. when submitting the documents, a strategy should be included, and lists what should be included in this strategy as a context, so to speak. I also think that this is not correct because of the point. 3 "Search of the applicant, we have explicitly recorded that the applicant is presenting and presenting his concept of the activities of the Bulgarian National Bank. I do not think that we are the people who should say what this concept should include. This will actually show the qualities of the candidate and enable us to assess how comprehensive and strategic he has prepared his concept, and within the Commission itself, every Member of the National Assembly will be able to ask additional questions so as to clarify those details, which in one way or another the applicant has not included in his concept. So I think it is absolutely unnecessary when presenting the documents to have a concept, all the more so that these documents, which are required here, are necessary for the admission of a candidate, as the Bulgarian National Bank Act said. As for the additional arguments regarding the fact that every member of parliament should make a proposal as governor of BNB and that Mr. Dimitrov quotes us a text from the Rules of the National Assembly without being a lawyer, I think that what he is quoting is not relevant to what we are talking about now. It says that MPs can offer draft solutions, legislative changes, addresses and so on. Here this topic is not included and therefore it is an element of settlement by the rules themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u45	- What's the line? Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u46	Thank you, Madam President. What we are being offered at the moment writes: "The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, decided............................................................................................... we have to decide something......................................................................................................................................................... Article 85, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, writes: What kind of decision is that?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u47	What's the basis? When you quoted him the first time, I didn't mind. There is nothing to do with this text of the Rules you refer to with your proposal, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u48	Okay, we're gonna decide today, and we're not gonna make any decisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u49	Exactly, exactly... So you made your proposal, I will allow it to vote, but this text you are referring to is not relevant to your proposal. Second line? I won't. A hole, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u50	Mr. Dimitrov probably because he's not a lawyer either, so... [[Noise and lines.]] If he's a lawyer, I'm very sorry. Today the National Assembly will decide and The draft decision can make any... and Mr. Dimitrov, and a group of MPs had made such a draft decision. And what it says in the draft decision, we're talking about a procedure for selecting a manager, that's not a solution. Its draft decision, signed by a group of MPs, has been submitted and incorporated into one 100% of the rules proposed here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u51	Any other MPs? Mr. Imamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u52	Madam President! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I stand up in connection with your proposal. Maybe I should have made a line for you because my speech is short. In general, I must admit that there is logic in what you are proposing, but this proposal does not stand just one problem, I will tell you this: the problem of responsibility. Let's assume that you are proposing a governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, how will you take responsibility tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, if the same event happens with KTB, in what way? You probably know that the Bulgarian National Bank is an absolutely independent institution, unlike many other institutions. Even she has no obligation to present her budget to the National Assembly, to be approved by the National Assembly. How will you accept this responsibility if something like this happens?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u53	I expect Mr. Dimitrov's first line in response, although Mr. Imamov's very statement was a line to Mr. Dimitrov's first speech, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Imamov, you're absolutely right. I can't argue with people who have, first, a rather long parliamentary experience much more than I do. So to speak, I learn from those before me. When we discussed it in the Commission, this issue stood on the agenda of law, each of us has the right to a legislative initiative. In fact, it should be a Member of the National Assembly - whether there are one, two or one hundred - there should be no limitation. A group was meant when they were from different political forces and united around one application. Certainly the best opportunity that we could realise, an option, is when given by the candidates, all who will appear, gather several political parliamentary represented groups, because then the subsequent legislation that this person would like to propose with us, could be adopted much faster and he would have some wonderful working conditions, but in order to unite us around him first he must have a choice, so the direction must have great political powers and then the majority will come out to choose him. And the option of being a candidate does not necessarily mean that only the greatest political force would get to the best candidate. I mean, it's possible that we have one candidate who has more than one of the other powers for nothing else, but because they're going to offer more qualified people in the team. It is possible that many people at the moment do not want to be disclosed just because they are worried that if a small political force proposed them, they would only walk as names, but would miss the opportunity to realize their opportunities. Either way, the right for every MP to be able to nominate should not have been removed, even soon it was in procedure. Turns out we agree on one procedure, and that's totally right and not right for the other. But you are the ones who will decide, and otherwise I agree. And one remark: Bulgarian National Bank (Bulgarian Bank), but I am also mistaken sometimes. You will decide who is to be chosen and what is to be the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u55	Second line, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u56	I'm making Mr. Imamov's line on the serious issue of political responsibility. His parliamentary group very often raises this question: who and how is politically responsible? Since it is here that the dispute is whether a single MP, being a member of a parliamentary group, may also propose a candidate for governor of BNB, since currently the regular member of a parliamentary group, including the leader of one, is discriminated against by the independent MEP who may propose a candidate, however, the individual member cannot. Ms. Stoyanova said that 240 applications could not be proposed. Maybe, Mrs. Stoyanova, because 240 are the MPs. My reply to Mr. Imamov is as follows: what political responsibility is the party GERB today, which proposed the current governor of BNB Ivan Iskrov, to whom now hysterically the same parliamentary group wants his resignation? Where is political responsibility and how is it tolerated? GERB proposed it when he was in power, GERB now takes it down when he is in power again.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u57	Third line? Slavcho Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u58	Dear Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! Article 87 of the Constitution is very clear: The right of legislative initiative has every Member of the National Assembly. If any MP can lay down the rules, it follows that he has the right to offer the authorities for which he offers the rules. In this regard, I think there can be no dispute and here I strongly disagree with Mr. Imamov. Second, who would be responsible? The Member of the National Assembly by making the relevant proposal, the responsibility will be borne by those who support his proposal. It's the truth! Otherwise, why are we here as MPs? Every MP has his conscience, his rights, and here we are all, as they say, equal, even our president is a primus inter pares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u59	A hole, Mr. Imamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u60	Madam President! Mr. Atanasov, a conscience that is worth several billion leva to the Bulgarian people, I do not accept such a conscience. It is obvious that the political power that he broadcasts and elects the governor of the Bulgarian National Bank must assume its responsibility. In this respect, I have no comments on Mr. Siderov's line. He's right. The issue must be addressed precisely to this political power, which it has supported and has created conditions to appoint the current governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. Political power must be held accountable, and that responsibility shall determine the voter. He decides whether this political power to rule the country, whether it rules well, whether it rules poorly and whether people should vote for it in the next elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u61	Do other colleagues have anything to share with us on the proposed draft decision? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. We are familiar with the draft decision and its annexes from the Commission report. First, I will put to the vote the editorial amendment proposed by Mr. Emil Dimitrov in the operative part of the Decision I, i.e. 1 Instead of the proposal for a candidate for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank is made by the parliamentary groups or by the MPs not members of a parliamentary group. The following article is adopted: The proposal for a candidate for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank is made by a MP, a group of MPs or parliamentary groups. Isn't that right, Mr. Dimitrov? I read it one to one of the texts you gave me. We vote on Mr. Emil Dimitrov's editorial proposal. Vote 148 MPs: 65 against 28, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Madam President, I would like a re-vote, because during the vote it was visible and it was obvious that a lot of colleagues were coming in. By the way, I was under the impression that most of you did not actually understand that the proposals made by colleague Emil Dimitrov... [[Voices: "Eee!" by GERB.]] Those who have understood, I'm glad they found out, so they supported the proposal. As you can see, several votes are needed. This proposal is extremely constructive, working and in the end it is a choice of the head of BNB. This choice is not made every day, made once every five years. Colleagues, I call on you to support the proposals of colleague Emil Dimitrov because they are constructive, working and for the benefit of the Bulgarian banking system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u63	It's a re-vote. They voted 154 MPs: 77, against 31, abstention 46. The money! [[Noise, excitement and lines.]] The offer is not accepted. Mr. Emil Dimitrov's next proposal is in I, t. 2: The following documents shall apply to the proposals of the candidates. The draft decision lists five points from the letter (s) to the letter (s) included. He proposes a new letter "e" with the following wording: "The candidates shall develop in writing and submit to the Committee on Budget and Finance of the National Assembly within 7 days of the expiry of the period under point." 1 own concept for development and management of the Bulgarian National Bank, including strategic goals and priorities for the next six years, and a program for implementation of the set management objectives, as well as a motivated concept for the development of the banking sector. Three things Mr. Dimitrov wants: a concept of development and management, a program for implementation of the set management goals and a motivated concept of development of the banking sector. We vote on Mr. Dimitrov's proposal. They voted 153 MPs: for 74, against 30, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, as you have seen in the previous vote, a little effort has not reached a vote to accept something working. This is also about a working mechanism. I'm just asking you to really take this responsible. We cannot choose a Governor of BNB and he has not presented a concept of what he intends to do with BNB. On what basis, then, will we choose this governor, since he does not have a concept presented? Even Mrs. Menda Stoyanova got angry about it. So let's do it. [[Reply of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u65	Revoting, coworkers. Vote 164 MPs: 78 against 35, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the draft decision together with the two proposals to it in the version of the Commission report. Vote 166 MPs: 131 against 9, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Kotseva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u66	Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal that the time limit for submitting written proposals under the general bill of amendment and supplement to the Law on Construction in the territory be extended by three weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u67	A reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the procedural proposal. Vote 137 MPs: 132 against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point two of our program: PROJECT FOR THE DECISION TO ACCEPT RULES FOR THE DISCLOSURE AND ADMISSION PROCEDURE FOR THE CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. He came up with a draft decision with Mr. Dimitar Lazarov's motives. We're listening, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u68	Mrs. Chairman! I'm sorry. I'm to the Draft Decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the discussion and adoption of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The draft decision shall be submitted on the basis of the following: 5 of the Decision establishing a Temporary Commission to discuss a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted by the National Assembly on 28 May 2015. The general framework of the procedure for discussion and adoption of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is contained in art. 154 and 155 of the Constitution. There is no detailed regulation of this procedure in the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules do not contain provisions for the movement of such a bill during the three votes in various plenary sittings, as provided for in the Constitution, including on time limits, shaping and entering proposals and other elements of the legislative process. In view of the above, I propose that, in accordance with the current practice of amending the Constitution, the necessary procedural rules should be adopted in order to create conditions for examining the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Project! DECISION adopting Rules of Procedure for the Discussion, and adoption of the Amending and Supplementing Bill Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and § 2 of the Additional Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. It shall adopt Rules on the procedure for the discussion and adoption of a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-103 of 26 May 2015 as follows: Rules on the procedure for discussing and adopting The amending and supplementing bill Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria Art. 1. (1) The bill amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-103 of 26 May 2015, shall be discussed and adopted by the National Assembly on three votes on different days pursuant to art. 155, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The term referred to in art. 154, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria shall begin from the day of the submission of the Bill under para. 1. Art. 2. (1) The Temporary Committee for the Discussion of a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria established by a decision of the National Assembly of 28 May 2015 shall perform the functions of a committee responsible. On the website of the Temporary Commission on the website of the National Assembly are published the transcripts of its meetings, the reports of the Commission, as well as the opinions and proposals received under the Bill. (2) The meetings of the Temporary Committee shall be broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. Art. 3. (1) In the first vote, the bill shall be dealt with after the National Assembly has heard the report of the committee and the reasons of the importers................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ (2) In the first vote, the bill shall be discussed and voted in general and in full. Members of the National Assembly shall speak on the main provisions of the Draft Law, and the discussion shall take place under the conditions and in accordance with the procedure laid down for the discussion of bills in the first vote. (3) The bill shall be adopted in the first vote if three quarters of all Members of the National Assembly have voted for it. (4) If the Bill receives less than three quarters but not less than two thirds of the votes of all Members of the National Assembly, it shall be placed for a new examination not earlier than two months and not later than five months. In the new examination, the bill shall be adopted if it has been voted on by no less than two thirds of all Members of the National Assembly. Art. 4. (1) Members of the National Assembly may make written proposals for amendment and addition to the bill adopted in the first vote within the time limits of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The period may not be less than 7 days. No proposals are considered contrary to the principles and scope of the bill adopted at first vote. (2) The Commission shall submit to the National Assembly a report containing the written proposals made by Members of the National Assembly and the opinion of the Commission on them. (3) In the second vote, the bill shall be discussed and adopted text by text under the terms and conditions of art. 81 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. (4) In the case of art. 3, para. 3 The bill shall be deemed to be adopted in a second vote if for each text three quarters of all Members of the National Assembly have voted. (5) The texts which are not supported by three quarters of all Members of the National Assembly, but are supported by two thirds of them, shall be read and adopted in accordance with art. 3, para. 4. (6) When the bill is adopted in the first vote in accordance with art. 3, para. 4 the texts voted for by no less than two thirds of all Members of the National Assembly shall be deemed to be adopted in the second vote. (7) Texts not supported by two thirds of all Members of the National Assembly shall be deemed rejected. Art. 5. (1) No proposals shall be made on the texts between the second and third votes. Following the second vote, the Commission shall present the text for a third vote in which it may propose only editorial and technical amendments. (2) The third vote shall be a vote on the Bill in full. The vote is roll call. (3) In the case of art. 4, para. 4 The bill is adopted in a third vote if three quarters of all MPs voted for it. (4) In the cases referred to in art. 4, para. 5 and 6 The bill is adopted in a third vote if it has been voted on by no less than two thirds of all Members of the National Assembly. 2. The decision shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u69	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u70	I would just like to add that these rules of procedure were unanimously voted on by all the representatives of the political parties.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u71	We've heard the motives and the draft decision. I'm opening the debate. Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u72	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that, in general, the Commission has proposed rules that allow for a serious discussion of the proposed amendments to the Constitution. I have only one amendment to art. 3, para. 2 the following text shall be included in the final part of the sentence and shall be inserted instead: The discussion shall be carried out under the conditions and in accordance with the procedure for discussing bills in the first vote and in accordance with art. 55 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, and for the smallest of the parliamentary groups the time may not be less than 15 minutes, but for the largest of them 45 minutes. In fact, the difference is to give a little more time for the discussion at first reading than the one adopted in the Rules on other bills. This proposal is also in line with the longer duration proposed by the Commission itself of the committee responsible's report of 20 minutes. I think it would show the seriousness of the attitude in the National Assembly towards the proposed bill. I think there are all the reasons and arguments for it to be accepted. I urge you to accept my proposal. Just some more purely editorial notes, which refer to several of the paragraphs of art. 4. There is adopted unnecessary stylistics for the use of the structure of the unormous "when texts are considered accepted. The Commission has correctly used the direct statement previously in art. 3, para. 3, and it is said that the draft was adopted in the first vote if it had been voted for by three quarters of all Members of the National Assembly. There is no need for such a structure of the presumption, so I propose this editorial clarification in art. 4, para. 4 and the text shall read: In the case referred to in art. 3, para. 3 The bill is adopted in a second vote if for each text three quarters of all Members of the National Assembly have voted. Further on, the same in para. 6: When the bill is adopted in the first vote in accordance with art. 3, para. 4 adopted in the second vote are the texts for which no less than two thirds of all Members of the National Assembly have voted. And in para. 7: The texts, which are not supported by two thirds of all Members of the National Assembly, are rejected. This corresponds further to the statement adopted in art. 5, where in para. 3 and 4, respectively, says: "If three quarters of the MPs have voted for it and if they have voted for it not less than two thirds of all MPs. I suppose this has been carried over by previous decision projects, but let each next parliament improve the editorials and not resort to constructions that are not needed on the grounds already stated. Those are my suggestions. To conclude, again, the first is about the possibility of having a sufficiently comprehensive discussion which, at this extension, can end in a plenary session. In the second case are purely editorial proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u73	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. First line? I won't. Mr. Stoilov, I'm going to ask you this. You gave the text for the second part of the last sentence. Please then the texts for the other paragraphs, where the proposal is repeated for art. Art. 4 and art. 7. I'm going to ask you for the right editorials so I can put them to the vote. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I support the proposal made by Mr. Stoilov. Under art. 3, para. 2 to have this more correct version in terms of time. As regards editorial amendments, the rules are indeed in line with the rules for amending the Constitution in 2005, 2006 and earlier. I don't mind these editorial amendments.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u75	He proposed amendments to art. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u76	He offered, yes, he can give it to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u77	That's why I asked because of art. 3, para. 2 I have the lyrics, but I don't have the other texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u78	And for the record, because it signals me that when I've read the rules, I've read it. 1, para. It's one point, but it's actually a point. 1, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the I'm going to say it one more time: 1, para. 2 states: "The term of the term of art. 154, para. 2 of the Constitution starts from the introduction of the Bill under para. 1.................................................................................. It's just a technical mistake.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u79	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. - What's the line? I won't. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll start by stating that I'm not a lawyer. I'm an admirer of fine arts, too. I ask myself: what is the need to adopt the Rules of Procedure for the discussion and adoption of the Draft Law for amendment and supplement to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, after the Constitution itself has clearly shown, there is a special text that says how it is changed. Reading carefully the narrated text of the Constitution, because what is offered to us by the importer is a well narrated text of the Constitution that tells us how to change it, I was impressed that this is actually done in order to limit proposals that may be different from those made by the importer. And I mean here art. 4, the first paragraph, which states:.. no proposals shall be considered contrary to the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote..................................................................................................................................................... I ask: why not consider such proposals? What does the range mean? I am proposing to remove this text and to be able to consider any proposals. To remove the text quoted by me from art. 4, para. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u81	Could you quote him one more time, Mr. Siderov? I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u82	Article 4, para. 1: No proposals are considered contrary to the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. Let's get rid of this. and in art. 5, para. 1, where it is said: between the second and third votes, no proposals are made on the communiqué. Here I propose that this change, i.e. be able to do, to drop this text and to be able to make proposals between the second and third votes. In this way, we encourage the freedom of volitions of the MPs and give greater opportunity for creative work to the lawmaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u83	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. A line? Mr. Stoilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u84	I object to dropping these texts because they are made as a guarantee that there are no proposals in the course of a bill that affect other essential topics. In this way, the high requirements for the number of MPs who can make proposals are being circumvented. Imagine the current proposals, I do not get into the discussion in substance, refer to the judiciary. In the course between first and second readings, someone may decide to change the powers of the National Assembly and say that they are too large and need to be revised, but this is another bill, another matter. Such restrictions act on every single bill, and for an even greater reason they must also act on the discussion and adoption of amendments to the Constitution. The aim of not making changes between the second and third readings is for the Commission only to adhere to its role as editor of the proposals already adopted, because then it turns out that if proposals are made, they will not have gone through two readings by content, but will only be accepted at the last, third reading. For this reason, I think we should not deviate from the rules. It is true that they largely specify and reproduce the texts of the Constitution, but in some detail they develop the procedure and for this reason I think it is good to adopt them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u85	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Second line? I won't. Mr. Siderov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u86	Mr. Stoilov, I understand your concerns. You, if I'm not mistaken, were involved in creating this Constitution and somehow jealously trying not to make it right too much. Don't worry! Don't be afraid. [[Heckling]] Yeah, but that's not it, by the way. This will be a fully responsible vote. We must not underestimate the MPs. At the third vote, they should be ready to accept what is being proposed, but my point is another that we should think more freely about these issues, because I see how the public is debating topics such as having a referendum on how many MPs should be, whether there should be 120, whether there should be 100. I suggest, for example, 11. This will greatly reduce the costs of the National Assembly, the maintenance of parliament. It could be one MP. I also propose creative options that I hear are being discussed even by representatives of the government, so let's free the people's representative a little from the shackles of formalism, it's a little more creative to approach and let this bill allow us to propose, we can hear a lot of interesting topics. We can hear proposals that change the Constitution so that we suddenly become a colorful state. So my proposal remains valid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u87	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. Any other speeches? I can't see. Voting mode. I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs. We're closing the debate. I will put to the vote the four proposals of Mr. Stoilov and the two proposals by Mr. Siderov. Yanaki Stoilov's first proposal is in art. 3, para. 2 after the semicolon of the second sentence, as the discussion takes place under the conditions and in accordance with the procedure laid down for the discussion of bills in the first vote, Mr. Stoilov proposes to place a point and to start instead of the one addressed by the discussion under the terms and procedure for the discussion of the bill in the first vote and under art. 55 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly as for the smallest of the parliamentary groups the time may not be less than 15 minutes, but for the largest of them 45 minutes. I propose a voting regime for Mr. Stoilov's proposal. They voted 122 MPs: 109, against 4, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the three editorial notes, which were supported by the President of the Temporary Commission Mr. Lazarov, and they are: in art. 4, para. In the second vote, the texts are considered to be replaced by the texts. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man A short time before that........................................................................................... 3, para. 4 "Accepted": dropped for "Authorised" and "Authorised" for "Authorised" or "Authorised" for "Authorised" for "Authorised" for "Authorised" for "Authorised" for" for "Authorised" for "Authorized" for" for "Authorized" for" and "Authorized" for "Authorized" for" for "Authorized" for "Authorized" for" for "Authorized" for "Authorized" for" for "Authorized" for "Authorized" for" and "Authorized" for "Author" for" for "Author" for" for "Authorite" for "Authorite." 6 is proposed by Mr. Stoilov to have the following version: When the bill is adopted in the first vote in the order of art. 3, para. 4 voting for a second vote are the texts for which no less than two thirds of all Members of the National Assembly have voted. The next offer is in para. Article 7 4 The texts which are not supported by two thirds of all Members of the National Assembly are rejected instead of being deemed to be supported. I put to the vote these editorial remarks, which were supported by the Chair of the Temporary Commission. Voting regime for the three subparagraphs. They voted 121 MPs: 121, no opposition and no abstentions. Mr. Stoilov's offer is accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Volen Siderov's proposal. 4, para. One down. Please vote. There are no proposals that are contrary to the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. Mr. Siderov, isn't the last sentence: [[Reply from the National Representative Volen Siderov.]] They voted 119 MPs: 14 against 69, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Siderov's second proposal is in class. 5, para. 1 between the second and third votes shall not be made........................................................................................................................................................... Isn't that right, Mr. Siderov? [[Reply from the National Representative Volen Siderov.]] They voted 120 MPs: 11 against 75, 34 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the decision of the Temporary Commission to amend and supplement the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, with the newly adopted proposals of Mr. Yanaki Stoilov in art. 3, para. 2); in art. 6 and so on, which we supported. They voted 130 MPs: 116 against 9, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND THE COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR FIRE. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. Mr. Hristov, please read the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, before we proceed to the examination of the Commission report, I shall make a procedural proposal on the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for admission to the Chamber of Assoc. Georgi Kostov Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Food; eng. Tony Krastev sc. Executive Director of the Executive Agency for Forests; and Daniela Angelova, Head of the Legal Department at the Department of Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u89	Please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u90	They voted 105 MPs: 102, against 1, abstention 2. The motion for admission to the Chamber has been accepted. Please report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u91	Before that, if I may, Mr. Chairman, a declaration on the grounds of art. 12, t. 4 of the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest. I declare that I have a conflict of interest and will not participate in the vote under the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u92	We understand you, Mr. Christov. Now the report, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u93	♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a bill amending and supplementing the Law for forests, No 502-01-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 May 2015 The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 29 May 2015, discussing the Law amending and supplementing the Forest Act, No 502-01-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 May 2015. The Commission's work was attended by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food: Desislava Taneva Minister of Agriculture and Food, Assoc. Mr. Georgi Kostov, Deputy Minister, Magdalena Dakova, Director of the Administrative and Legal Service Directorate. From the Executive Agency for Forests: Mr. Toni Krastev, Executive Director, Mr. Krasimir Kamenov, Deputy Executive Director, Tsenko Tsenkov, Director of the Department of Foresting and Foresting, Daniela Angelova, Head of the Department of Normal Activities and Human Resources. At the beginning of the meeting, the people's representative Rumen Hristov said he has filed a declaration of conflict of interest and will not participate in the vote. The bill was presented by Tony Krastev, who recalled that it was drawn up in the implementation of the commitment of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to initiate legislative changes and changes in the regulations relating to improving control of activities in the forest areas and to counter illegal logging. The main proposals are the following: The mandatory planning of all forest areas shall be introduced, with the exception of those provided for the needs of national security and defence, irrespective of the size of the property and whose ownership they are. In this way, activities can only be carried out if there is a forest plan or programme drawn up by the owner concerned. Regional plans for the development of forest areas will be prepared by traders listed in the Trade Register. Several proposals have been made with regard to forest protection and control over wood extraction and movement. It is envisaged that the specific requirements for logging in protected forest areas should be laid down in a regulation. The minimum authorised age for the conduct of the re-opening cuts shall be increased. The possibility of carrying out sanitary cleansing is removed and grounds are given to refine the sanitary logging regulations by dividing them into sanitary and forced ones. A ban has been introduced on the production of wood during the dark part of the day. It is envisaged that motor vehicles carrying wood be fitted with GPS devices. The measure should be notified to the European Union and will enter into force from the beginning of 2017. For the beginning of 2016 it is intended to introduce video surveillance systems in all sites where wood is entered or processed. The circle of persons who may be appointed in connection with the conservation of forest areas and the scope of their powers shall be extended. The employees of state-owned enterprises will be able to carry out checks and issue acts of infringement under the Law both within the territory of the entire enterprise and outside the established working hours. Employees appointed for the protection of municipal forests will also be able to carry out checks and issue acts of violations in the territory of the respective or neighbouring municipalities. With regard to persons with secondary education wishing to enter the register for the exercise of private forestry practice and for those whose registration has been terminated due to infringements, an introductory examination shall be introduced. As an exception to the general procedure for imposing sanctions on registered forestry farmers and registered traders, it is envisaged that in certain cases, representing particularly serious infringements, their registration should be revoked even after the first infringement has been found. Several proposals have also been made relating to the clarification of the texts governing the possibility of inclusion in the forest territories of properties restored as agricultural but representing forest within the meaning of the Law. Except after an inventory, the status of these properties will also be changed at the initiative of their owners. It's written in the appropriate order. The possibility of building fire equipment without changing the purpose of the property is given. In the subsequent discussion it was noted that the proposed changes are extremely important, there are mechanisms that should help to carry out more effective control and curb illegal attacks in forests and should be supported. In general, all the Members of the National Assembly expressed their support for the Bill and made a commitment between the first and second votes to make their proposals to refine the specific texts. Following the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 14 votes for the Forest Act, No 502 01-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 May 2015, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, No 502 01-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 May 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u94	Thank you, Mr. Christov. There is no report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. I'm opening the debate. Here you are, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u95	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will read the reasons for the Law amending and supplementing the Forest Act. The changes proposed by the Law amending and supplementing the Forest Act are mainly related to improving control over planning and implementing measures to protect against illegal violations and imposing greater responsibilities with their corresponding sanctions for persons operating in forest areas. The amendments are also related to the envisaged changes in the regulation, mainly related to the extraction of wood, the manner of logging and control. The proposed amendments and additions to the Forest Act can be summarised in the following basic guidelines: One. Forest planning. Amendments to provisions relating to the development of planning programmes, including the development of regional plans for the development of forest areas, are proposed. The aim is to achieve better regulation in the planning of activities in the property of individuals and, at the same time, to carry out more effective control. With regard to regional plans, given the specific nature of the planning process, the circle of persons entitled to draw up such plans shall be extended. Two. Protection and control. The project also provides for changes in the rules governing the control of the extraction and the movement of wood respectively. First of all, cutting during the dark part of the day is prohibited, thus limiting the possibility of unauthorised attacks. The second important change, which is envisaged in this regard, is the introduction of a provision providing for the obligation to provide for the transport of wood motor vehicles to be fitted with GPS devices, thereby ensuring effective control in the transport of this raw material. In combination with the development of an electronic system for issuing vehicle tickets online, this measure will contribute to achieving the long-awaited electronization of the reporting and control processes in the forestry sector. A video surveillance system is intended to be installed at sites where wood is entered or processed for prevention, current and subsequent control. These two measures have been delayed and the first measures are proposed to enter into force since the beginning of 2017, and the video surveillance from 2016. Another important change in the direction of more effective control is the extension of the powers of employees appointed for the protection of forest areas. The philosophy of the Forest Law is every owner not only to use, but also to be responsible for protecting the forest areas he manages. The largest is the percentage of state forest territories managed by state-owned enterprises. It is proposed that the employees of their territorial divisions have the right and the ability to carry out checks and to issue acts outside the established working time in the territory of the entire enterprise in order to respond adequately to the detection of an infringement and to allow for the focus of a larger number of employees in certain areas or for the formation of mobile teams where and where necessary. There are also far more serious sanctions for infringements committed, offering different hypotheses where only one infringement will be revoked of the license to carry out activities in the forestry territories... both to natural and legal persons. We believe that this new approach will have an application not only as a direct measure punishing offenders, but will also have a significant preventive effect and will lead to a much greater responsibility for those who carry out activities in forest areas and are directly involved in the implementation process. Three. It's a forestry practice. Last but not least, we should also note the proposal for the introduction of an introductory examination of persons wishing to enter into the Register for the exercise of private forestry practice, as well as those to whom their licence has been revoked due to infringements. The aim of this proposal is to ensure that only persons with the necessary competence, with specific knowledge and experience, have the powers conferred by the Forest Law on licensed forestry farmers. Those persons effectively perform functions throughout the process from logging planning until they are carried out and accordingly dispatching wood, and should therefore be sufficiently competent to manage those processes. The main motive for introducing additional requirements for the entry of persons in the public register is to ensure sufficient competence in the implementation of specific forestry practice. In this regard, while higher forestry education can be considered to be sufficiently ensured that the high level of competence of persons, the average forestry education, given the large number of educational and training centres for forestry farmers, practice has shown that their training does not always meet the powers and responsibilities that the Forest Law assigns to them. The change would not affect youth employment, as for graduates of secondary education in vocational schools, dealing with the intended exam should not be an obstacle. We believe that immediately after completion of vocational education, individuals have sufficient theoretical training to pass such an examination. Four. Others. It is re-initiated the possibility that territories which constitute forest within the meaning of the Forests Act, which were forests until the entry into force of the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land, but were restored as agricultural areas, would be included in forestry areas. For this purpose, by order of the Minister of Agriculture and Food, committees shall be established to draw up lists of properties whose characteristics correspond to the definition of forest under the Forest Act. The aim is also to plan these properties and manage them in relation to their actual situation so that the control provided for in the Forests Act can also be carried out. On the other hand, the owners of the properties whose areas are in agricultural territories but because of self-forestation or forestry activities have acquired forest characteristics in recent years within the meaning of the Law, to express their will and desire to manage them as agricultural properties. We believe that, with the entry into force of the proposed changes, the objectives of more effective control and limitation of illegal attacks in forest areas will be achieved. The proposed amendments to the Law also relate to amendments to regulations that are to be approved as soon as possible. The full effect of the proposed amendments will be assessed after the adoption of the whole package of proposals by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Forest Executive Agency for regulatory measures. The draft Law is not contrary to European legislation and is not drawn up in the implementation of European Union acts or in international treaties concluded by the European Communities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. We have heard the reasons for the Law amending and supplementing the Forest Act and the report of the Commission on Agriculture and Food. I'm opening the debate. Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We are discussing a change in the Forests Act, implemented under pressure, related to non-good practices in the forestry sector and a moratorium imposed, which within three months had to bring about a change in the Law and it has to solve some of the problems that society rightly rebelled against. Unfortunately, I have to say that the proposed changes to the Forests Act are made very quickly and do not create prerequisites for solving the main issue of stopping the impractical and illegal logging and looting of forests. Apart from this, the proposed changes have not been discussed in a working group with the participation of branch organizations, and the reasons and objectives that apply are quite controversial. I would like to say that by adopting some of the changes that are necessary and are a fact in the Law. The increase of the years in the high-rise forests up to 80 years, the appointment of a couple of inspectors who are a fact but have not been legally regulated, the other proposals for change will not solve the main problems in the sector. The authors of the change in the Law emphasize that they will stop illegal logging, and will strengthen control through measures that will take place at later stages. The cheapest and most necessary measure, which we have also insisted on in our proposal for a change of the Law, the requirement that the vehicles are equipped with GPSs, is postponed, notice, for 2017 and a half we will not have an information system that will create conditions for control. Whatever reasons to offer or take into account, in the 21st century, to say that our problem is an information product that needs to be created in order for the administration to be able to do its job as a control body, it seems extremely unserious. 2017 is too late for this policy to be implemented. To me, the point is that someone doesn't want to have control in the next year or the next year. At the same time, the organization of a national big brother is offered at the expense of the owners of workshops, warehouses that store and process wood. There are prerequisites for quite negative processes and phenomena that will occur as a result of these owners having to install cameras. Excuse me, since we don't have forest crossings with operating cameras, all of a sudden we want everyone working in the sector to have cameras tracking the entire process. The theme is what will be, which warehouses, what time, how to manipulate the cameras, how to make verification decisions In our view, this measure will not at least lead to absolutely no real prerequisite for establishing rules in the sector. Another proposal that we would welcome, but, as it is written, is also creating problems, is ensuring the possibility of controlling and checking cargo at any time and on each route. Here is the question I want to ask: why have the forest roads been missed? However, the Forest Executive Agency must also control the forest roads, but they are missed in the proposal of the Law. In addition, the desire to control itself at a time that is the bright part of the day also raises doubts that are incomprehensible to me. We will ask the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences what is the bright part of the day?! It couldn't be more complicated. And if something's complicated, it won't apply. What's the problem? The control of wood extraction, timber supply shall be within the working hours of the Executive Agency's employees or those in state enterprises. We'll ask BAS about the light part of the day. A question I can't figure out either. If we can control real and only in working hours, let this work be carried out only then. In the reasons of the Law there are other proposals related, first of all, to the procedures for the legalization of forests. Since I am mainly in the sector of.........I must tell you that there is no country in the world that does not protect its arable land. We propose a controversial procedure in which restored property on fields, i.e. on arable land, within three years, if the owner does not imperatively clean this land, which has become some forest territory, by order of the Minister to be recognised as forest territory, that is, we change the purpose. Excuse me, but no country in the world can afford to reduce arable land in this way. What happens if the owners don't have an opportunity? It's turning into a forest. If they decide to challenge, it is a court procedure that cannot be accepted in any form that will resolve the issue, because these are not actually forests either. These are self-forested spaces, which are still arable land, have their value, have their category, of which agricultural production can be produced, which each country supports not only by its own means, but also by European means. So this text, which was adopted in 2011, now perfected, seems to me that it cannot be regarded as a decisive problem for landowners, would rather make it difficult for them. A proposal made in the Forests Act to extend the possibility of building in forests without changing their purpose. As this text of the Law goes, without changing the purpose of building is allowed, first, second, third, until the twelfth, we better write what is forbidden, because every year the desire to enter objects where the purpose will not be changed. The fact that it has not been considered by the Regional Commission is also a problem. However, the Regional Commission may speak on this case much more competently than the Committee on Agriculture in the National Assembly. It is currently proposed that the facilities that protect against fires should go without any appropriate change of purpose under the Law on the Construction of the Area. Why? In 2011 the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union ("the EEA Insert text we want a change of purpose for first and second. Less will be than the exceptions as suggested. The project proposes a procedure for issuing licences. We welcome this step, as we therefore believe that professional forest management will be ensured. In our Bill, which was not adopted by the National Assembly, we also had similar proposals. What is disturbing here and for which the authors of the Bill should explain is that there is absolutely no regulation regarding how this Commission will act. For this reason, without methodology and clear rules, without the Law there are implementing rules, by one order we determine how exactly we will implement the better procedure for improving the qualifications of those working in the sector. There's no procedure if someone hasn't passed the exam or anything, how they can reappear. The law must sign these rules in order to know whether it can still act in the way in which the authors propose it, in our view, this procedure must be described in much more detail, at least having uniform rules for the issue of licences. We welcome the debate on the change in the Forest Law. We expected more and the proposals that the non-governmental sector has proposed in the Ministry are also publicly published to take into account the change in the Law. Unfortunately, this has not happened, so the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria will refrain from supporting this bill. We will participate in the debates on what needs to be improved in the Law and with proposals that are beyond the scope of the currently proposed changes. I would also like to make one point: the law was adopted very quickly without debate both in the Commission and before. Three months passed, an extremely long period of time in which the best solutions for solving the issues of Bulgarian forests could be found. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Are there any lines? I won't. Thirty minutes of rest until 12:00 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u99	Colleagues, we're moving on. [[The National Representative Velizar Enchev wants the floor for speech.]] Yes, Mr. Enchev, I'll give you the floor. Professor Stankov made a wish before the break, so I'll give you the floor after him. Here you go, Professor. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u100	Thank you. Mr. President, honourable Members of Parliament, I believe that at today's meeting the Committee on Agriculture presented a good draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests. I think there are some very strong moments there, and I would like to draw attention to a few of them. First of all, that the control of wood extraction and movement is strengthened, because this is extremely important and timely. Maybe a little soft are the measurements there. Even more drastic, more serious measures need to be proposed, but this will become certain between the first and second votes. The sanctions are also increasing. I think this is positive and should be done in any case because the outrage in the Bulgarian forests continues and some believe that this is their real way of living. So this invasion must be stopped. In the objects where wood is being processed, video surveillance is introduced, which I also consider very positive. The expansion of the powers of forest workers is also extremely important and must be supported. It is interesting for me and I am pleasantly surprised that requirements are introduced, an examination is introduced for all those who want to acquire the right to engage in forestry. I also find that very positive. An important problem, which had to find a solution, is the issue of agricultural land. I think that these texts that are being proposed are very precise and must be supported because they allow for the conversion of agricultural land into forest vegetation where there are already growing perennial tree species. This is the positive and the opposite. There's a certain logic to what Professor is proposing. Bachvarova. I am somewhat inclined to support it, but I think that what the Commission has proposed and supported is better and that we will support. We told you about the sanctions. We have notes and proposals that are very specific and we will make them between first and second votes. The very first days we will coordinate with the forestry specialists and our parliamentary group will give its comments. For the moment, I declare that we will support the forest bill in the first vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u101	Thank you, Professor. Stankov. First line? I won't. Mr. Enchev, you wanted to speak. Are there others willing to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u102	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! I submit the following proposals agreed on the initiative of nature conservation organizations in the coalition to remain nature in Bulgaria. Point 1 "the centralized tracking system for the movement of harvested wood. I propose to create a new art. 213a with the following text: All documents on the use and transport of wood and non-woody forest products are public by including them in a centralized electronic system............................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u103	I would ask you between first and second reading to give specific texts. Now we're at first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u104	Okay. I also want to say something particularly important when we talk about these changes. The export of illegal wood must be limited, as we know that currently exports of raw timber obtained from forests of the State is also carried out by private companies. There must be very serious changes to be made here, specifically in art. 126. I will also put in place a very important proposal, which I think you should support to limit the activity of logging in the night hours. You know that logging is currently permitted one hour before sunrise and one hour after sunset. According to experts, it is appropriate to prohibit the production of timber and haulage from 18:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. Particularly important is the issue of confiscation of all funds in illegal logging. At the moment, you know very well that wagons, trucks or other vehicles with which illegal logging is carried out, if they are owned by third parties, are returning to them again. For this reason, relevant changes to art. 273. A particularly important topic that affects owners of private forests. You all know that these private forests, which are owned by several people, of whole families, are often subject to abuse by private companies that allow themselves this illegal logging. For this reason, in order to limit the mass logging of private forests and to stop fraud, especially when not all owners of the forest property are informed and have consented to this logging, a very serious change must be made to art. 111 to guarantee the ownership of this property. I also believe that very important changes must be made to the section on the financial stimulus of the employees I don't know if you know this, but according to unofficial data, the wages of the forest inspectors are now around 400-450 BGN, which is a prerequisite for serious corruption. It is normal and it would be acceptable for the remuneration of inspectors to be not less than three minimum salaries. Did you know that farmers in farms currently receive twice as much monthly income as inspectors? And inspectors are the people who work directly on the field and naturally, I have to say it with great regret, they are the most subject to corruption. A particularly important change that needs to change the philosophy of the management and conservation of Bulgarian forests is a proposal that you may find radical, but which I think those working in the Executive Forest Agency will accept, and that is: why should we not think about it and propose the separation of the Executive Forest Agency from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, in so far as in the current situation the controlling institution is subordinate to the administrative institution of the Ministry, which is responsible for the management of the state forests. Needless to say, the practice shows that this dependence of the controlling institution on the owner of the state forests, the Ministry, leads to widespread, I stress, political pressure on forest inspectors not to control the activities of the state forest enterprises which are subordinate to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. Unique are the cases, this is no secret where forest inspectors allow themselves to punish state-owned employees, not to say: I don't know if there are any registered cases at all. To go back to what I'm proposing and which will certainly have a great hearing capacity. I repeat once again: the financial stimulus of forest control and protection workers is of particular importance. I'm focusing on this for the second time because with these miserable salaries, you can't expect the forest inspectors not to be subject to corruption. Of course, when it comes to morals and professional ethics, this should not have any relation and significance at all, but in a country like Bulgaria with such miserable salaries people who control such a huge, golden resource of the state..the wood, naturally are subjected to very strong moral pressure and we must show the necessary understanding and seriously ensure the increase of their wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u105	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Danev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to address some important points in the proposal for the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Forests, but at first I would like to say which created this amendment. At the end of February 2015, a proposal was made for a decision of the National Assembly by a group of MPs under pressure from the public opinion, NGOs, media interest in the fact that the Bulgarian forest is cut out promiscuously, exported in uncontrolled order, thus damaging the state, ruining a rare national wealth, adversely affecting the climate. Thus in the Law on Forests.............................................................................................. 126, para. 6 and para. 7, it is possible to prohibit exports of raw wood to countries outside the European Union. The reasons at the time were as follows: exports to 2014 amounted to approximately 1 million. Cube. m, which is a quarter of the annual yield for 2014. Turkey, Serbia, Macedonia has the biggest export. It is proposed to prohibit exports of raw wood by means of a law aimed at granting sustainability to the prohibition, at least until the competent authorities establish the effectiveness of measures to prevent and sanction illegal logging. European Union law does not allow this to take place in respect of Member States, which is why it is envisaged that the permanent prohibition should apply only to third countries. and on the grounds of art. 86 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria then the National Assembly decided: first, the export and dispatch of goods with codes 440110, 440320, 440391, 440392 and 440399 under the Combined Nomenclature, pursuant to Regulation of the European Union No 1104 of 2014. Point 2 "The activities under point (b) '. 1 shall be suspended for a period of three months from the date of the promulgation of the Official Journal and, notice, what is important is in point. 3, within the term of item 3. 2 legislative changes relating to the modification of the regime of sale, export and dispatch of goods shall be made. For reference, the codes that have entered the ban list are burning wood in the form of logs, raw coniferous material, raw oak material, beech and so on. It's been three months. For this period, according to Parliament's decision, there should have been legislative changes which, I repeat, were linked to a change in the regime of sale, export and shipment of goods. In short, to improve control over the logging, sale and hauling of wood from the Bulgarian forest. Today, we consider at first reading the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Forests. Quickly on the proposals made. Paragraph 1. Changes have been made in the direction of each owner to pay for the production of forestry plans and programmes for forest areas. Paragraph 3. The Forest Executive Agency shall establish such an information system and the amendment proposal shall be made publicly available and its use shall be free of charge. Paragraph 4 of Article 4 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 54, para. 1, t. In addition, point 3 (e) is given the right to construction without changing the purpose of the land for forest fire protection facilities. Paragraph 5 in art. Art. 83 84 A more restrictive approach to changing the use of agricultural land has been regulated, self-polluted and acquired forest land status. So far, the proposals made make sense, such as providing publicity, discipline for the owners of agricultural land to manage it as intended, but I do not see, Members of the National Assembly, response to the decision of the National Assembly, which we took in March. Paragraph 7, Art. 7. 103, para. 3.................................................................. 7 is new, and in art. 102, the renewal cuts of high-rise forests are allowed, and so far these choppings were after the 1960s, the new proposal is in eighty years. The forging forests for the conversion into seminals so far have been after the twentieth, thirtyth, but the new proposal is in fifty years. Paragraph 9, art. 104, new paragraph. The production of wood during the dark part of the day shall be prohibited one hour after sunset and one hour before sunrise. I believe, Members of Parliament, that this is a very relative concept. I'm going to ask you this question: if the weather is cloudy, when will it be considered the beginning or end of wood production? In my opinion, there must be a firm, regulated hour to be observed in order for the control bodies to carry out their duties effectively. Next § 11, Art. 148, new para. 12, which I consider to be one of the most important proposals. Motor vehicles transporting wood as well as mobile sites under art. 206, be equipped with correct GPS systems. This, which is our previous proposal, is the right measure that these systems will require very strict control of the movement of wood from sites to commercial sites. Paragraph 12 and § 13 shall also make proposals that do not affect the control of the logging activity. Paragraph 14, art. 191 "The forest-guards have the opportunity to exercise control outside their established working hours. It is an important measure to effectively influence illegal logging in order for forest protectioners to issue acts of infringement at any time. Article 15 206 Owners and users of sites in which it enters, is processed or from which wood is dispatched, to build a continuous video surveillance system, as well as to provide access to the information. This, too, is a positive step in terms of controlling the sites through which the acquired wood passes. Paragraphs 16 and 17.. regulates the registration of persons engaged in forestry practice, and the new is that in addition to the necessary qualifications and censure they must also take an examination in order to be able to practice forestry. Paragraph 18, in art. 239 is suggested when these specialists stop exercising their practice: when committing violations during their activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u107	Would you like a time extension?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u108	Yes, I did.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u109	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u110	In paragraphs 23 and 24, the proposal shall be for a reduction of a penalty imposed in the detection of infringements where the person pays the fine imposed within 30 days. These are, honourable Members of the National Assembly, the proposed amendments to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests. We from Coalition BSP left Bulgaria and we believe that the proposals are in the right direction, but are insufficient to have the expected effect and justify the public interest. Moreover, for some of them, which we believe are appropriate, they have been proposed to enter into force since 1 January 2017, such as the proposal for the introduction of GPS systems of means of transport. Therefore, we will refrain from supporting the Law at first reading. We will actively participate in the debates between first and second readings and hopefully colleagues have more determination to make deeper and more serious proposals that will really lead to the expected effect in order to preserve the Bulgarian forest, the Bulgarian nature as we have inherited it from generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u111	Thank you, Mr. Danev. Here's a line, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u112	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I think the so read article by Mr. Danev shows that work is undoubtedly done and it is in the right direction, because limiting the yield in the dark part of the day is a very positive measure. From now on, you know that during the night the main violations of wood production are being carried out. We must not forget that a few days ago, a forest phone 112 was opened. The Ministry is constantly working towards improving control and conservation of the Bulgarian forest. This 112 phone will provide extremely fast information within half an hour to an hour and a half to determine whether the logging given in a particular forest is illegal. It is certainly that there is something to work on, but the direction is correct and all that has been undertaken in the amendment of the Law on Forests shows the will and what needs to be done in this direction. I would like to ask my colleagues today, when we are debating, not to speak in such a way as to watch a second reading of the law. Let them be as good as they have had plenty of time to make suggestions. We will now again have a one-week deadline for making proposals between first and second readings. Let them activate, be more active and really pour their powers into the Bill, so that it can get the kind they want. I call on you, let us support the first reading of the Law on Forests, because only in this way, when we are united and we have will, can the results we want for the protection of the Bulgarian forest be obtained.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. Second line? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues, I take note from our colleague Tsveta Karayancheva to be tighter. The proposed changes to the draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Forest Act are related to improving control over activities in forest areas, as well as taking measures to protect illegal attacks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u115	Is that a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u116	Yeah, it's a statement. [[Relation from the National Representative Dobrin Danev.]] I apologize. The dot wasn't given. Go on. Then I'll give Mr. Danev the right to the back of his head. I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u117	Okay. Thank you. It provides for serious sanctions for the conduct of infringements. It is important that the new proposals introduce additional requirements for the entry of persons in a public register which must ensure competence in the implementation of forestry practice. The forestry sector in Bulgaria needs a coordinated strategy for reform of the public forest administration with a view to increasing professionalism, responsibility, efficiency, independence of its regulatory authorities. We need conditions for improving the business environment in general and dealing with corruption, which is a major factor for all illegal practices. This bill must end the abuse of the monopoly of power and reduce the prerequisites for creating a gray economy in our country. We need measures relating to the imposition of state public partnership, depoliticisation of forestry workers, transparency, flexibility, and, of course, shared responsibility. The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front will support this bill at first reading and we will take advantage of our opportunity to make our proposals between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. Mr. Danev, I'm sorry, I missed the backdrop last time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u119	I'll try to be brief on the coworker's line. Yeah, what you're saying is that you're going the right way I said it in my speech, but I think it's not enough. One example: why should the means of transport be limited to traffic in the dark part of the day? Perhaps this comment will have to be between first and second readings. We generally believe that our abstention as a vote on the proposed bill is that the proposals that have been made had to be in a much deeper and more serious form in order to really limit this process, which has existed for a long time in the forest management and timber trade activities. We therefore believe that the proposals had to be made in such a way that regulation was, first of all, felt. Secondly, after voting on the Law, the Moratorium for Export Ban and, as the Law exists, I think the processes will continue by momentum until appropriate measures are taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u120	Thank you, Mr. Danev. Replies to Mrs. Sultanka Petrova's statement? I won't. Here you are, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Today we are looking at the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Forests Act, which was tabled because on March 4th the National Assembly decided to stop exports and send goods, the so-called Moratorium on the exports of wood. In this decision of the National Assembly, dated 4 March, p. 3 is written that within three months legislative changes and changes to the regulations relating to the improvement of control of activities in forest areas and countering illegal logging must be initiated. Now, let's see what we have to offer. In the reasons for the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Forest Law, the amendments are grouped into four groups: forestry planning, conservation and control, forestry practice and others. We need to pay the most attention to the Section "Conservation and Control." There are several changes proposed. The first substantial change is regarding the ban on cutting during the dark part of the day. As a point, this change is good, but as it is written out with vague hours, this change will not work effectively, so between first and second reading, the legal provision needs to be better specified, because so recorded will indeed be very big disputes about whether it was during the dark part or not. The second amendment with regard to the supply of GPS devices to vehicles has been delayed since 2017, which is not a measure that was worth three months to have a Moratorium in terms of wood exports, because if this was introduced in delay, what was the point of the Moratorium? The next measure in the sites where wood is entered or processed is to install a video surveillance system. The measure is also deferred and will be introduced from 2016. Why should we impose obligations on private entities to install such systems and not impose obligations on forestry farms to introduce such video surveillance in forest roads? Once we get him in, and a private subject videotapes what comes in to him, so what? From then on, other problems are created which are in no way regulated in the Law. The next is the expansion of the powers of the employees appointed to protect the forest areas. I'd like to draw your attention, colleagues, to this particular part, because we've gone through this point very quickly. It is said that employees have the right and the opportunity to verify and issue acts outside the established working hours in the territory of the entire enterprise. This is where the question arises: if one employee in the forestry sector, in accordance with this law, in the absence of the working time he has established, does not make an act, but makes another deal with the intruder and thus corruptly collects some Phoenician signs, from then on his supervisor and appointing authority, what powers do they have against him when the infringement is committed outside his working time? In this part, it's not considered at all. This part of the Law, although the measure is good, is not considered. Left in this way, the Law will also create very great difficulties in implementing it. I'm not going to continue with the others because everything else is too cosmetic. In conclusion, I would like to say the following. If the National Assembly has decided to impose a moratorium for three months, thus ruining the business of people who are dealing with timber exports and favouring two companies positioned in Burgas and Svishtov, and now offers us these cosmetic changes in this Law is at least illogical. Although we do not see much significant changes in the texts, although the key changes in the philosophy of the Law on Forests are not convinced that this is what we have been waiting for, because we have expected much more substantial changes, although we believe that the changes are cosmetic, unthinkable and with a delay period, the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support the bill to show that we are....................... about any changes in the Law on Forests. Including between first and second readings, we will support all meaningful other proposals, but with one agreement, in three months' time, we will analyze how the Law is applied, what effect it has had and whether it was worth three months to have a moratorium on wood exports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Ahmedova. - What's the line? I won't. Mrs. Yankova, come in, you have five minutes for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u123	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In fact, we are looking at a bill which was the philosophy and view of the GERB Party in the government of Borisov 1. The authors of the Bill, who are now changing it, are the same. In parallel, I admit, we did not have political time to have a new view and parliamentary time to change this philosophy. However, it is a fact, honourable Members, that we have wanted and made public pressure for a moratorium, which has shown that this law has huge breaches. The fact is that what is currently being proposed is touching and decorative. I think that, here in Parliament itself, the individual political families should be aware. See what we're saying in the motives: the section of control, the section of control. That is, yes, we realize that this is economics and agriculture; we realize that this is green wealth, afforestation and reproduction. In this bill, when we see in the first part of the reasoning itself that it will improve the control that it will improve the planning and implementation of activities on the forest territory, we, colleagues, have no measures anywhere. I expected from the team of the Minister, from Mr. Kostov's team a bolder step in the protection, management and reproduction of forests. At this stage we have only control and only one economy that is going and which is cutting. The Moratorium was a political recognition that the Law does not work and we now, with these palliative and decorative measures, will not take political responsibility for changing the Law. I'm gonna go with a few things. Forest planning. In my opinion, it is necessary between first and second readings to make a change in the debate -- to stricter control of coniferous forests; for those who are screw-ups, we can go to a more liberal one; for those who are oaks and beechs to be otherwise. With the planning that liberalizes the regime for the screw-ups and Northern Bulgaria, we open Pandora's box in the Rhodopes. This is a serious problem, which I hope the Council of Ministers and we, as MPs, will think about. In terms of conservation and control. What are we saying? There'll be stricter control when? In a year and two. In this weather, what are we saying? ♪ Work, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, And eventually from one forest to the other the couples will go, which will control, with a lack of budget, because we drained the forest holdings, the money is in the enterprises, and the businesses themselves do not receive from the budget anymore, they give their money in the budget, and they have their activities. That is, we need a change and a more decisive philosophy in terms of forest farms themselves. About roads. What do we say about roads? Tough procedure, guys! State road, cooperative road, private road. There is no solution when it is necessary, or there is a disaster to be resolved and to walk the path. It is necessary for me to have a state policy. The procedure for the behaviour of the municipalities is extremely complex. When five trees fall into a private property and there is a forest road. You know that this is the weak spot in the forest areas and we really where we are waiting for the private person or if there are several owners to go to make a decision. We don't make any decisions here, and that's the blood system in forest policy. You all know that these are problems that sound very strong. In terms of forestry practice. Let the Ministry acknowledge that it has created POCs and non-working educational institutions related to agriculture. It's running them. It has reproduced products - people who currently have poor qualifications, the PCPs work, sometimes for political reasons everyone is tempted to put on the forest clothing, appoint it as a political solution and print their diplomas. I am an opponent to sign in the Law the weaknesses of the Ministry. The Ministry to submit to Parliament or to the Commission...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u124	Time, I apologize!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u125	Yeah, I'm finishing up. We're probably gonna talk a lot more, we're gonna work between first and second readings, but that's a weakness that's recognised by the Ministry itself. There are many more questions that sound. That is, we have a confirmed policy and a Law that sounds weak. We're not gonna introduce anything new, which means we're gonna palliate. This is a serious political responsibility. We expected and would support much bolder steps in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. A line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Zhelev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, in my brief parliamentary experience, I have quite often heard from this tribune that there are no perfect laws, no perfect people either. I'm guessing that even law enforcement doesn't claim that he's perfect and that he doesn't have any flaws. But as a man of the industry who has had to work precisely for years, applying this Law, I claim that our proposed changes are good, even, I would say, very good. But there's always more to be desired, so there's a first and second reading. I myself reserve the right between first and second readings to bring in some new changes. I will not be very specific, as there is much to talk about, nor will I oppose the talkers. Because if I wanted to do it, I had to take lines. This bill started working from the first days of this National Assembly. It was not done because of the moratorium imposed. Moratorium only catalyzes processes. Along with this bill, there are regulations. It has already been said that the Law has no application rules, but works with regulations that are extremely important and they have long been ready. I've already mentioned them, and I want to say them again. This is the Regulation on inventory and planning of forest areas, which has not been made at all so far. It will allow the regional plans to be drawn up, the planning and use of forests on a much wider social and social basis. The law has made very good texts to refine prevention in terms of forest violations. The issue is not to detect violations and to go after events, the question is to prevent them! There are violations in the woods, and probably whatever perfect law we make, there will still be. This is a huge territory over 37% of the country's territory, the most difficult to access. Low-educated people from poor social circles work there. The work in the woods is not a sterile laboratory, which is entering with a pass mode and with gluttons. The point is to reduce the violations to some acceptable minimum, because everywhere, there are problems in every sphere. It was about construction, it was about fire trucks. Why does it have to be construction? It was an extremely important text about agricultural land. In Bulgaria there are huge areas of agricultural land that have been self-forested or have been forested as crops for the previous decades. The texts so far have been vague, present, twisted, and very difficult to work in practice. Neither the control guys knew what to do, nor the control guys. Usually, the acts were disbarred in court. In this way huge violations were carried out, huge territories were deforested, which led society to think that illegal logging was taking place. Now there are very precisely defined texts with fixed dates. Every owner of such a territory will know exactly what to do first, this second, this third, this with specific fixed deadlines. This is what every law should look like in order to be applicable and to benefit the owner of the territory and society. In my previous speech, I said regarding students' exams.. For one reason or another, over 30 schools are allowed to produce people who have a low level of knowledge and at the same time have the necessary documents to start work. The level of pay between the inspectors and the workers in the forestry farms has already been leveled because the salary of 430 BGN. the inspectors immediately after the forest week was increased to 600 leva. This is also the salary of the forest worker in state forestry or hunting. Therefore, the thesis that the forest takes twice as many as the inspectors do is no longer working. In our previous speeches, when we rejected the Bill of BSP colleagues, which they had previously rejected themselves, I would like to stress this because this was the Bill of the late Dimcho Mihalevski, God forgive it, and then, and now I say that there were many positive texts in it. They're being taken into consideration. The reason for the rejection was that it was incomplete and should be much more complex. The good proposals from him are taken into account and are included in the new texts. A very important condition in changing the status of forests from agricultural territories that have acquired the characteristic of forest is the fact that inventoryers have fixed over 120 thousand hectares of such forests. In general, if we put the more undefined ones, we must be talking about an area of about 200,000 hectares. It was during the comments with colleagues that much more difficult was the change in the purpose of forest areas, as this only happened under adopted common planning, while the change in the purpose of agricultural land became much easier regime. In this way, we are protecting new territories that have already acquired the appearance of forest. And as far as this isn't a forest, but they're self-forested territories, it's actually the forest, it's self-absorbed territory. Afforestation is a costly forestry event that only applies where the forest has no power to resume itself. As the Swiss-school colleagues say, patience is much cheaper than afforestation. In order not to waste more of your time and parliamentary time, I would like to say once again that the adopted changes to the Forest Act are very good... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u128	We haven't accepted them yet. It has to end the debate so we can accept them. We're going to vote on them now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u129	The proposed changes are good and I call on my fellow Members to support them. Between first and second reading there is more to be desired and I hope we will do so. Thank you. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u130	Thank you, Mr. Zhelev. There are no lines. Deputy Minister Mr. Georgi Kostov wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I wanted to thank the parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria since 2011 for adopting the Forest Law, which gave a new philosophy in this sector. I remind you that this is one of the few laws in our legislation that has no rules for its application but is modernly regulated by regulations in separate key directions. Therefore, when we consider possible changes to the Forest Act, we should always consider it in a complex with the proposed changes in the regulation. That's four regulations. One of the most important regulations regulated by the Law is the Regulation on the control of activities in forest areas. This is a major problem that concerns our public.. whether there is enough control, who does it and how it does it, and so on. The proposed framework changes in the Law open the door the regulation to be changed and improved. Secondly, together with the Law, we are changing the Law on Chopping. This is a purely forestry issue which cannot be written entirely. A science cannot be written entirely in one law. Under the legal framework, precise criteria are written down. I guarantee that with the adoption of the Law and the regulations under the law there will be no paintings of stripes and territories, as well as the picture that has appeared in the last two years in private properties on the northern highway, where everyone can observe in municipalities around Antonovo, Veliko Tarnovo, Shumensko and Lovesko. This also disappears forever from the opportunities to be made in Bulgaria. Thirdly, we are changing the Regulation on Planning and inventory. In practice, we do not change it, and this is a whole new regulation, which for four years had no will to be made by the previous teams. This is extremely important because we are introducing regional plans and the whole public will be committed to deciding what to do with individual forest areas and privatize their functions. And the last thing we change is the Regulation on the award of activities in forest areas. It is given the opportunity to process the wood in Bulgaria in the first place, in order to keep the value available here, in our country and not somewhere outside. It's all taken into account. I would also like to say that the proposed bill is only part of a set of measures that has taken the Ministry of Agriculture and Food since the first day of the current government. I will only mark because mobile teams should not be confused with state forest enterprises, as I think there is a misunderstanding in some of the MPs representing the opposition. Because of the mobile teams of state forest enterprises, we are making a change in the possibility of them doing a check in each part. These are 140 new mobile teams, well provided materially. Secondly, full transparency. Currently, the site of the Executive Forest Agency is widely available and you can look for any place where a logging permit has been issued, to whom it has been issued and so on. These are things that are firmly resolved, which have been requested, I see from the coalition to remain the period. They're already knocking on open doors. Next, I must say that we have taken very serious measures in the field of combating and preventing violations, including in the 112 System. Ladies and gentlemen, after the Ministry of Interior and ambulance, forests are the third institution that can respond quickly to Phone 112 for both forest violations and forest workers who need help in the forests. Often, foresters on the field find themselves unable to deal with robbers and therefore they need help. I would like to thank you for all the proposals that have been made. They will be carefully analyzed by the Ministry's team. I request, as the bill is in the right direction, this has been declared by all parliamentary groups, let us unite around the common idea that it has, for the protection of the Bulgarian green wealth. We can't make a huge leap because the huge leaps were during socialism. We can take a small step, but in the right direction! Thank you. I hope for a positive vote from everyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u132	Thank you, Mr. Kostov. To speak, Mr. Hristov, after him Mr. Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u133	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Many of the things that could have been affected in my speech were said by colleagues from different parliamentary groups. I will just say a few words about what the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has to offer. First of all, congratulations on the work done, because for the short period of time they have done a lot of work. Dear Mrs. Ahmedova, it was delayed because it was a bill submitted by the Council of Ministers to a procedure...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u134	Please don't engage in dialogue with each other. Give me a principled position.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u135	I apologize. The delay was not the fault of those who made the bill. I will not make a procedural proposal to reduce the period between the first and second votes. On the contrary, we will leave these seven days so that proposals can be made both on the left side of the Chamber and by other parliamentary groups. Everything that is reasonable will be reflected in the Bill, but the accusation that something has not happened in these three months is not true because the Bill, which was 14 days on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for Discussion, and the regulations concerning this Bill, was developed. With regard to the reserves related to the GPS system to be introduced in 2017, there is no problem to think about an earlier introduction. And I might be able to solidarity with what was said just now. As for the so-called dark part, this term is also used in other Bulgarian laws. There is no problem to look at every website and see when the sun rises and when the sun sets. It is obvious that the person who moves with transportation equipment and with a technique for harvesting wood in the dark part of the day is engaged in smuggling. With regard to video surveillance, only two words. For me, this is a good practice which helps control authorities to monitor how wood is used in Bulgaria. It's okay, I said conflict of interest, in my enterprise to have a camera, to watch what goes in and out. On the contrary, this brightens up to a large extent the industry. I think the bill is good. Of course, it can always be better, but I hope that between first and second reading, once again, you will submit your proposals. And now I appeal to support it, because this way we will fulfill some of the commitments we made to the public, introducing a moratorium for three months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u136	- What's the line? Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u137	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Hristov. I will take this opportunity to answer the question that you have asked me by name. The Council of Ministers submitted the Draft Law to the National Assembly on 28 May. Moratorium falls June 9th. From May 28th to June 9th, a practical opportunity for a bill to pass through a committee of two readings and to enter into force simply will not come into force. From there on, you know that you have called an emergency committee of the Committee on Agriculture and Food. We took an active part there. We have expressed our position to support the Law, which means that since then we have been aware of what we are doing, but my question to you is, and in the back, I ask you to answer: was it worth having a three-month moratorium in order to obtain these legislative changes, and in this form?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u138	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u139	I repeatedly expressed my position: no, it wasn't worth it. I continue to believe that, under market economy conditions, when administrative steps are taken to resolve some issues, success is not always positive.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u140	Mr. Bayraktarov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u141	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Kostov, Mr. Krastev! First of all, I would like to remind you that today, on June 10th, the moratorium on the prohibition of exports of raw wood expires. I would like to remind you that, for the first time after deadlines, what was one of the objectives of this moratorium was proposed to the National Assembly in the three-month period, a Bill and a debate on an extremely socially important topic, namely the conservation of the Bulgarian forest. I will congratulate the team of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for Work, because I have been very carefully acquainted with both the Bill and the accompanying legislative documents, which are yet to be adopted by the Council of Ministers. Naturally, I would agree with Mr. Zhelev that there are no perfect laws, even more so when we talk about the Bulgarian National Assembly. After all, it is our responsibility here, of the MPs, when we comment on the philosophy of such an important bill, such as the Law on Forests, in a correct style, in an expert style, to indicate where we believe there are weaknesses within the prescribed legal period, both the MPs to think about these texts and the people who offer us this Bill. I would ask, and I would ask you, Madam President, once I have spoken, if you could give Mr. Deputy Minister Kostov some clarification on some of the texts I would like to address you today. In fact, what did we have to demand the imposition of a moratorium and the prohibition of raw timber for export, and what did we have today to consider this Bill within this three-month period? The first thing is the promiscuity of the Bulgarian forest. The second thing, the uncontrollable export of raw wood, which does not bring added value, means the necessary revenues for the Bulgarian economy. The third thing I cannot help but point out, honourable Members, is that according to art. 235 of the Penal Code The maximum number of persons under such responsibility for smuggling and illegal logging are precisely DPS activists! It is DPS activists and some, notice, with very serious positions in certain municipal councils. And, notice, even convicts, with a valid sentence, do not even leave the positions of the municipal councils. It was for this reason that I listened carefully to the speech of the DPS speaker because she conveniently missed some really serious texts, such as § 5 of the Law that is being offered to us. In § 5 the right is Mr. Zhelev, I will mention his name again, I hope he will not ask for an explanation, because he is right for the first time it is given the opportunity to separate the agricultural territories and the territories defined as forests. However, to the attention of our colleagues we must explain the meaning of art. 2 of the Forests Act, what is this miracle of the forest, namely the land occupied by the wood-tree vegetation with an area of not less than 1 decare, the height of the wood stature in mature age of not less than 5 meters, the width of the plantation measured between the stalks of the finite trees, not less than 10 meters. Here comes the big question that practically with the introduced para. 3, para. 5 and 6 is given an opportunity to a person who owns, whether legal or physical, to claim that he wants this land to remain a landland of agricultural land, and within a three-year period to practically perform a naked logging of this forest for which the generations have had patience to become a forest. By the way, I would like to point out that many of these territories are not a self-grown forest, but an afforested forest in the 1970s. Experts know that they cannot be described as forest for the reason that there is a technological period in which it should become a forest, to know that it has taken up and so on, but not to explain and not to go into details. I'm going to ask Mr. Kostov to explain this is going to be performed like a bare cutting, because this is where they come from...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u142	A similar explanation at the Commission meeting, Mr. Bayraktarov. Now it is necessary for the MPs to hear your attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u143	Yeah, I'm explaining my attitude because it's important. When we are talking about the Regulation on forest inventory, we need to know a few important things - first of all, that under this regulation inventory is carried out once every 10 years. A second time, it is carried out on a particular assignment and a public procurement is carried out accordingly. Will the Forest Agency have the capacity, given that public procurement procedures have already been carried out, to carry out an inventory of these forests? Will there be a resource available to the coworkers to do their job? Because, colleagues, you can't see that in the Law, and it's important. Moreover, there are forest territories or agricultural lands that have already acquired the status of forest, which have been inventoryed for example two years ago. Does it mean that after 8 years an inventory will be carried out when this 25-year period set by March 1991 will practically no longer be valid? I therefore ask the Deputy Minister to explain these things to make it clear and understandable to fellow Members of the National Assembly. These are important things. There's gonna be another one of those naked cuts. People won't understand that this goal cutting is sometimes really necessary. We need to explain it and clarify that this is not a bad thing, it is not a bad thing not to speculate with public opinion. It's nice for 112. My congratulations, because a very large part of the forests have not been cut down. They were on fire. Because it's easier to light a forest and then burn it, give the material practically without money to use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u144	- What's the line? First line, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u145	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, you have not tried hard enough to listen to me and understand me, because if you had, you would have remembered that the DPS would have voted for this Law, that we voted in the Committee on the Law. Our insistence is for more substantial amendments to the Law so that all these measures in relation to the illegal logging can be more complete. And what you practice in is always and in everything you practice with only DPS, just talk about your weakness!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u146	Second line, Mr. Zhelev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Bayraktarov, I agree with your statement. I'll make two responses in the form of a line. First, there are funds for national inventory. He's got resources. The national inventory will be done simultaneously in the territory of the whole country and there is a well-designed German model that will give us an accurate and clear picture of what wood stock we currently have on national scale and what is its real growth on national scale. At present, the figures are submitted by the forest inventory teams, which carry out the inventory of forests for 10 years, and significant changes in the real state are taking place in 10 years. Secondly, in terms of agricultural forests. There's a date that I haven't heard or you haven't noticed, sacral is the date 1 March 1991. This is the time for the adoption of the law on the restoration of agricultural land. All agricultural lands which have been self-forested or have been forested as a result of a forestry event and have become a forest before that date remain a forest forever. Neither the owner nor the inventory area has the right to claim them. That is, only forest can be cut down, and if its owner wishes, when this has been proven to be younger than 24 years to the present date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u148	Third line? I won't. Mr. Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u149	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to thank my colleague Rumen Zhelev, who, in an expert manner, gave the answers that were needed by the MPs. It's important to know. I asked these questions for a reason. It's nice when there are people who understand this matter to take a attitude and clarify it, because the bill is extremely important. As far as the DPS is concerned, I think I have made it very precise and clear that the vast majority of persons under criminal liability on the grounds of art. 235 of the Penal Code, persons from the Mafia structure DPS have been proven. You can also check that in court. [[Reply of MP Stanislav Anastasov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u150	Please, no qualifications, no use of epithets that are for one other room...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u151	Thanks, I'll take a note. I'll take a note, Mrs. Chairman. The DPS is not such a mafia structure, it's an extremely mafia structure! [[Loud noise and lines in DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u152	Mr. Bayraktarov, on the grounds of art. 151 of the Rules I am making a note of the way in which...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u153	I'm taking a note.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u154	I'm punishing you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u155	First you have to give me a warning about who I insulted personally.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u156	The whole group!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u157	It can't be the whole group. There are no such texts in Bulgarian law. Let me finish my line...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u158	I am making a remark to you that according to art. 152 You address your colleagues with abusive words!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u159	Which coworkers?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u160	Mr. Bayraktarov, if you continue to enter into a debate with me on the sanction imposed, there is another one!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u161	Can I finish my line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u162	I call on you to do so.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u163	The hole. These are facts, I stress the facts that are verifiable that most of the misled under art. 235 are of this structure. I should be surprised that such an opinion will not be taken. As for competence, for concern, we saw this concern exactly four days ago when this political force failed the meeting in order not to consider this so important bill! [[Reply from DPS.]] If you please, make a comment now to the gentleman who replicates from a place, and according to the Rules, you have no right to be objective. That's what I want to tell you. I don't have to convince the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u164	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Your cue time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u165	You took me 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u166	Personal explanation Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u167	I didn't mention any names.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u168	Anyone in the group after your speeches can get up and ask for a personal explanation. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] Mr. Bayraktarov, read Art. 155, p. 1. Don't get into a fight! I'm warning you! The word is Mrs. Ahmedova. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u169	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, not only did you show your weakness a moment ago, but showed your exceptional weakness, because you know nothing but DPS...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u170	Please, no qualities that are unproven in this room. Make the point of your personal explanation. How did Mr. Bayraktarov's words affect you?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u171	My personal explanation, Mr. Bajraktarov, against what you accuse DPS and our structure in full: since when does the judiciary separate people by political means, which political party belongs to? Why do you think you did such an analysis? If what you're saying is true, that means there's premeditation. Mr. Bayraktarov, get a grip and start working like people.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u172	Will other MPs participate in the debate? I won't. We're closing the debate. There's a vote coming up. [[National Representative Mustafa Karadaye wants the floor of speech.]] Mr. Karadaye, the debate is closed. I didn't see you before, you should have given a sign. Last time I asked. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Forest Act. They voted 134 MPs: 112 against 1, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. Ms. Karayancheva's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u173	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I propose a shift in the programme for the work of the National Assembly. 4 to become the First Voting of bills to amend and supplement the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u174	A counteroffer? I won't. I put the proposal to the vote. 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7. Four, and the others line up after her. Vote 146 MPs: for 145, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: FIRST VOICE OF LAW PRODUCES FOR DELIVERING AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODE OF THE TRUDA "7." The first four from Mr. Volen Siderov and a group of MPs; the fifth is from Mr. Petar Kanev and a group of MPs; the sixth in line is from Peter Slavov and a group of MPs and the seventh is from the Council of Ministers. Reports have been received from the leading Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. I'm asking for a summary of the reports.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Allow me to make a procedural proposal in the Chamber to allow the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Galab Donev to be admitted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u176	We are voting on the proposal for admission to the House of the Deputy Minister. Vote 108 MPs: for 106, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Quaestors, invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. We're listening, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u177	Thank you, Madam President. By the order of their entry: ♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code No 454-01-20, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 27 October 2014. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at its regular meeting held on 17 December 2014, examined and discussed the proposed Draft Law. It was presented by Mr. Nikolay Alexandrov of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Attack, who explained that a new paragraph is being proposed in art. 222 of the Labour Code. This provision will ensure that, upon termination of the employment relationship due to the retirement of a worker or an employee holding a pedagogical position in the education system, the same right to compensation from the employer in a new amount of distinction from the current norm. The amount of compensation should be determined by the number of years of pedagogical service. After the discussion and vote, with results for the 3 votes, against the 1 vote and the 13 abstentions, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee adopted the following opinion: He proposes to the National Assembly not to support the First Voting Draft for amendment and supplement to the Labour Code, No 454-01-20, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. The second draft amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 454-01-19, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. At the same meeting held on 17 December 2014, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee discussed a Draft for amendment and supplement of the Labour Code with importer Volen Siderov. The bill was presented by Mr. Nikolay Alexandrov of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Attack. The Bill proposes the Council of Ministers to determine the minimum wage, which cannot be lower than the average minimum wage for the member states of the European Union. It is proposed to legally bind the size of the species and the size of the additional wages and benefits under the employment relationship to the size of the similar average minimum amounts for the Member States of the European Union. After a discussion and a vote, with results.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Asks the National Assembly not to support the bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code in the first vote. The third draft amendment and supplement to the Labour Code, No 454-01-16, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. At the same meeting held on 17 December 2014, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee discussed a Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Labour Code, No 454-01-16. The bill was presented by Mr. Nikolay Alexandrov of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Attack. The bill aims to create guarantees through changes in the existing art. 245 of the Labour Code for timely payment and in full of the wages paid in good faith for the performance of the employee's duties. A new article is proposed. 262a for the purpose of applying a simplified procedure to the court where a worker or employee so requests in the event of a labour dispute over unpaid wages. After the discussion and vote, with results for the 3 votes, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: He proposes to the National Assembly not to support the First Voting Draft for amendment and supplement to the Labour Code, No 454-01-16, submitted by Volen Siderov. The next project is: supplier for amendment and supplement of the Labour Code, No 454-01-5, with importer Volen Siderov and group of MPs. At the same meeting held on 17 December 2014, the Commission examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code with importer Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. The bill was presented by Mr. Nikolay Alexandrov of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Ataka. The importers stress that the aim of the bill is to regulate the labour market and reduce unemployment in the country. It is proposed to provide legal protection for Bulgarian workers who have priority over all other citizens of other EU countries, Member States of the European Union, States of the European Economic Area Agreement or of the Swiss Confederation in the event of employment with employers in Bulgaria or with Bulgarian employers abroad. After the end of the discussion and voting with results: no......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The fifth draft bill is:................................................................................................................................................................. At a meeting of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee on 4 March 2015, the Commission examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 554-01-24, submitted by Petar Kanev and a group of MPs. The bill was presented by the MP Georgi Gokov. According to the reasons of the Bill, the proposed measures are aimed at relieving the business conditions of enterprises and, in particular, of small and micro enterprises. The importers also expect that these measures will reduce the corruption pressure on the business. This bill is a continuation of the initiative of the MPs through legislation to reduce the administrative burden on business and citizens in Bulgaria. After the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 16 votes, 1 vote, 1 vote against and without abstention, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee adopted the following opinion: it proposes to the National Assembly to support the first vote Draft for amendment and supplement to the Labour Code, No 554-01-24, submitted by Petar Kanev and a group of MPs. The next report is for the first vote of: "A draft amendment and supplement to the Labour Code, No 554-01-67, submitted by Petar Vladislavov Slavov and a group of MPs. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its regular meeting, held on 3 June 2015, examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 554-01-67, submitted by Petar Vladislavov and a group of MPs. The bill was presented by the MP Dimitar Tanev. The importers shall offer an addition in art. 154, para. 1 of the Labour Code, with which May 1st, officially celebrated in the Republic of Bulgaria as International Labor Day, will also be celebrated as the anniversary of the outbreak of the April Uprising. According to importers, the proposed date may 1st is in line with the Gregorian calendar, the so-called "new style." After a discussion and a vote with results: supposed to the National Assembly not to support the first vote Draft for amendment and supplement to the Labour Code, No 554-01-67, submitted by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs. The last report for the first vote is on:.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at its regular meeting held on 27 May 2015 examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 502-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 May 2015. The bill was presented by Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin, Deputy Prime Minister for Social and Demographic Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy, who explained that the proposed amendments and additions aim to settle outstanding employment relations, as well as to refine existing texts in the Labour Code. Minister Kalfin stressed that the Bill was discussed and supported by the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. The bill creates a legal opportunity to conclude an agreement between representative employees' organisations and employers on the adoption of regulations. The agreement may be concluded at the request of the organisations upon the discretion of the State or proposed by the State and its implementation shall be carried out by the State. The bill introduces a new form of employment contracts in specific areas for regulating short-term seasonal agricultural work. The proposal is on the initiative of the Association of Agricultural Producers and provides for the conclusion of employment contracts in the harvesting activities of roses, fruit and vegetable production for professions that do not require special qualifications. The proposal provides for the employment of between 60 and 100 thousand working in the grey sector to be regulated. After a discussion and a vote with results:..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u178	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. From the Education and Science Committee, who will read the report? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u179	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 454-01-20, submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. At its regular meeting held on 10 December 2014, the Committee on Education and Science examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 454-01-20, submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. The meeting was attended by: Vanya Kastreva, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Ralitsa Kirilova, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, representatives of trade union organizations. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Magdalena Tasheva. The bill aims to restore the prestige of the teaching profession and to make it attractive to young people. It has been highlighted that the age of people employed in this profession has been steadily increasing. Less and less good students choose pedagogical specialties, and the reasons for this are both material and valuable. Young people stay in school only until they find a more expensive job. The proposed measure will keep the middle generation of teachers in the profession. According to the importers, the sector of education is strategic in view of the national security of the state. Taking such a step as increasing retirement compensation will increase the prestige of the teaching profession and give teachers social security. In the subsequent discussion the Members of the National Assembly agreed that the proposed amendment and addition to the Labour Code does not meet the objectives set out in the reasons of the bill, and the necessary financial justification is missing. The bill is not in line with the real financial situation in which the country is located. It was said that only increasing retirement benefits would not improve the self-esteem of teachers. If the education system has more resources, then they should be directed towards stimulating young teachers to improve the quality of education. After the discussion was concluded and a vote with results was held:........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, to read the report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u181	♪ I can't believe under the Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 554-01-24, submitted by Petar Kanev and a group of MPs on 6 February 2015. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 18 February 2015 examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 554-01-24, submitted by Petar Kanev and a group of MPs on 6 February 2015. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy.. Kalina Petkova Director of the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Working Conditions............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The bill was presented by the MP Petar Kanev. According to the importer, the aim of the proposed bill is to ease the business environment in Bulgaria and, in particular, micro and small companies, which represent 98% of all working enterprises. In over 348 thousand. micro enterprises with up to 9 employees operate a total of 635 thousand. persons or 1.8 persons on average. The bill provides for an increase of three to seven days in time for notification to the National Revenue Agency for Contracts concluded; cancellation of the obligation to draw up schedules for leave; withdrawal of the employer's requirement to develop and establish rules for the provision of health and safety conditions of work, as this requirement exists in another law; withdrawal of the requirement of consent of the General Labour Inspectorate in disciplinary dismissal of mothers with children up to three years, worked and employees on leave. A reimbursement of the opportunity for the employer to terminate the employment relationship with persons who have acquired the right to a retirement pension by 2012 is proposed. Measures specifically aimed at micro and small enterprises provide for the waiver of the obligation to notify the labour inspection in advance for extended working hours; for prior coordination with trade unions, the temporary establishment of part-time for up to three months; for the issuance of internal employment rules. According to importers, the bill will have no negative financial impact on the state budget. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy supports the bill in principle, except for the proposed change under art. Art. 136a. 138a. Business Organizations of the Bulgarian Industrial Capital Association, Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and Bulgarian Industrial Association, strongly and fully support the Bill, noting that similar proposals have been made by them in recent years. The Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria supports the Bill in its main part. There are considerations regarding the provision to alleviate the administrative regime of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is also not supported by the proposal to abolish protection in the event of illegal dismissal of certain categories of persons. The Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria does not support the Bill because it believes that the proposed measures to ease the conditions of business of micro enterprises and small companies contradict the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as a number of international acts to which our country is a country. A basis for discriminatory treatment of employees in small and micro-enterprises will be allowed against other employees in other companies. The Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria does not support the return of the previous text of art. 328, para. 1, t. 10, because it considers that opposition to two constitutional rights is acceptable.. the right to work and the right to pension and that if the latter arises, the first can be taken away. The Confederation of Labour "Support" objects to the proposed legislative changes, believing that the proposed texts serve interests that would affect the rights of employees. In the subsequent discussion, the MPs from all parliamentary groups supported the bill in principle and expressed readiness for proposals between first and second readings when extending the deadline under art. 80 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Following the conclusion of the discussion and the vote with results: the Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 554-01-24, submitted by Petar Kanev and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 6 February 2015, adopted on the first vote the Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 554-01-24, submitted by Petar Kanev and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 6 February 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u182	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. There is no report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. The importers' motives. Here you go, Mr. Siderov. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u183	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposals we are making affect the social sphere and are very important to the Bulgarian people. I'd do the procedure for... [[The speaker speaks with his back to the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u184	There's no one to vote on it, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u185	Too bad there's no one to vote on it. First of all, I'm going to start with the proposal that refers to the teaching community. I still can't forget Milena Damyanova's inspired speech on the occasion of May 24th, it echoes in me and so I begin with this topic. What do we suggest? When retiring, teachers should take as many salaries as they have pedagogical internship as some others have military and so on. We believe that this is not only fair, but it is necessary, as it will give one though not great, but an incentive for more young people to focus on the teaching profession, to be attracted to it and still have some material reward for this heavy but gracious work of the teacher. In this way we will recognize not only with the wonderful speech, I mention it once again, because it really impressed me with our sense and talent, but also in a case that we appreciate the teacher's profession. It is a pity that the Education Committee rejected my proposal with the argument that it was not in line with the real financial situation in the country. The financial situation in the country is always bad, but when we show that we think about this condition, we will show that this thinking, as it is fashionable now to say, is a priority in the program of the government and will receive the recognition not only of the teaching community, but also of the parents, of the whole society. It is a pity, of course, that the Committee on Labour and Social Policy also does not support this bill. Here, however, in this Chamber, there is an opportunity to correct its opinion and to do a good deed. It's never too late to do a good deed. The second proposal concerns the workers, in the debates there will be an opportunity for more details, now I will only mark the current Labour Code gives such an opportunity to not pay the full remuneration of one working person, but up to 60%. It's considered normal, a lot of companies do. In our parliamentary group, we have an awful lot of complaints about people who can't get their full reward, literally for years. This is not only unfair, it is a violation of human rights, as the Constitution states that everyone should receive remuneration for their work. It is so that hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians do not receive full remuneration and in fact the Constitution is violated. Here is an opportunity to correct this and show that we really think about the people of the hired labor. Those who are referred to as "Lievi" may also be included with full unanimity. The so-called right-wings must show that they care about the people of employment, because this is part of European policy. The third proposal concerns Bulgarian workers. In short, we propose to change one text in the Code, i.e. to add that Bulgarian citizens who are employed benefit from advantage over all others. It refers to all the others from other countries. Here someone will say that this is contrary to European norms. There will probably be such objections, I see that there have been such objections in the Commission as well. There is even one question raised by a parliamentary group, should a reciprocal measure be applied to nearly 2 million Bulgarian workers working throughout the European Union. Yes, dear colleagues, it is practically applied. You know very well that Bulgarian workers are discriminated against. In some countries they view them as second and third-hand, insult them, impose restrictions on them and in practice the Bulgarian is discriminated against. This is done absolutely openly, even if it is no longer hiding, it is not covered by leading countries in the European Union. Why should Bulgaria not protect the Bulgarian citizen who gets a job with priority in the case of unemployment? It is already a very, very strong factor for instability in the country. We can safely say that we are applying a reciprocal measure by adopting this proposal to what countries of the European Union apply to Bulgarians. You know that many of them violate even European norms, the Treaty on European Union and discriminate against Bulgarians. Let us, without discriminating anyone, show that the Bulgarians can be of priority when they are employed. This is the moment. When the moment becomes such that we have no unemployment, we liquidate it, then we can make a move in another direction. But now is the time. The policy is an art of opportunity. Life is a dynamic. We can't fix anything and it stays that way for decades. We have to consider reality. Currently, the realities are such that in Bulgaria unemployment is problem number one. This is what sociological research shows, and that shows life in general, especially outside the capital Sofia. I believe that this measure will show that the National Assembly of Bulgaria is a Bulgarian National Assembly above all else. I come to the final proposal in the amendments to the Labour Code, which reads as follows. We propose that the minimum wage for the country should not be less than the average minimum wage for the countries of the European Union. In addition, the types of minimum amounts of additional wages and benefits under the employment relationship, in so far as they are not defined by this Code, may not be less than the average minimum amounts in the European Union. In this way, if this is accepted by the House, we will indeed show that we are a Member State of the European Union. We are currently a member of the European Union on paper, but in practice we are a country of the third, fourth and fifth worlds. Many times from this tribune, both I and my colleagues have made comparisons with the payments of not only the minimum and the average, but at all with the salaries of the labor in Bulgaria and other countries of the European Union. In some cases the ratio is 1:10. One in ten is Bulgaria's ratio to a Member State of the European Union. Since the Labour Commission report quoted the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy as saying that the Ministry has a negative opinion on our proposal because it cannot increase pay without increasing labour productivity. I want to ask a question here, from this tribune, to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The minister is not here, but he will hear my question: is the Bulgarian ten times lower than the German, Italian, Belgian or French, or 15 times in some cases? The Luxembourgian is 15 times more productive than the Bulgarian "Is that what the Ministry of Labour is saying right now with this opinion? If that's what he's saying, then immediately, the Attorney General should be conducting an investigation into racism, because that's a racist statement. This means that the Bulgarian as a nation is ten times less fully valued than the average European, than the French, the Italian, the German and so on, not to list the other countries in which both the minimum and the average pay is between 9, 10 and 15-16 times higher. It is not possible in these countries that the population, the citizens, the people there have 10, 12-15 times higher labour productivity... neither are aliens, nor are androids, nor are cyborgs. These are the same people with the same qualities. Even DNA studies show that we have a common origin of many peoples from Europe, including its most western part. Dear ladies and gentlemen, let us not slave any more to this cliché of labour productivity. I do not know how the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy measures labour productivity. What kind of instrument is there for this measurement? I don't know. But the reference to this is a racist attitude towards the Bulgarian people, to the Bulgarian laborer, hired worker, entrepreneur and whatever and so on. If today the House accepts, or when the vote on these proposals is clarified, we are voting for.....................................we have heard from the committees............................................ [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u186	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. You will present the bill, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u187	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will present to your attention our bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code and our views on this issue. I will start by saying that with the proposals we have tabled, we aim only to propose measures against the compulsory implementation of certain actions, activities and obligations, which will facilitate business conditions mainly for micro-enterprises and small businesses. At the same time, we expect that this will reduce the corruption pressure on business. Under no circumstances do we serve interests and do not wish to affect the fundamental rights of workers and employees. There are no valid expectations that the immediate result of our proposals will be harming the people of employment by withdrawing their rights and endangering social peace in the country. We want to put on the agenda a problem or rather a problem that is part of our labour legislation. Now get to the point. We propose that the obligation for micro-enterprises and small businesses be dropped by stressing that it is only for micro-enterprises and small companies, for prior written notification of the Labour Inspection for extended working hours, for prior coordination with trade unions, temporary part-time establishment, for issuing the Internal Labour Policy Rules. The proposal shall increase from three to seven days the time limit for sending the notification to the NRA of each contract concluded. Our bill also provides for dropping the obligation to draw up schedules for the use of leave as a non-working text. We propose that the employer should be removed from the requirement to develop and validate Rules for the provision of health and safety conditions of work in the enterprise, as this has already been set out in the Law on Health and Safety at Work. We offer a refund of the employer's right to terminate the employment contract with persons who have acquired the right to a pension for retirement and age, thereby creating a level playing field between workers in employment and office. The Act on the Ministry of Interior and the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria also provides for an age limit for those serving under these laws. It is proposed to waive the protection under art. 333, para. 1 in the event of disciplinary dismissal of the worker or employee. The bill will have no negative impact on the fissure. An increase in business efficiency is expected given the ease of regulations. The draft is supported by the two committees, where the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is addressed, as the lead, and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism as the accompanying Commission. The reasons for support from the various parliamentary groups were of a different nature, from full support of the proposals to being one of the eternal topics and all these issues are part of the labour legislation, many times put to discussion, but it has never come to a resolution, as the positions of trade unions and employers on them are fundamentally opposite. Therefore, their support is linked precisely to their resolution. There are many questions and support to come to a discussion on them. For the most part, the proposals are supported in the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. In the interest of correctness, I must point out that a number of concerns have been expressed on the proposals from trade unions and employers' organisations. They are in the direction of the dismissal of certain categories of persons. This is undoubtedly a relief for employers, but there is a view that certain circumstances must be complied with, as in democratic legal systems, the withdrawal of once given rights is defined as undemocratic. Concerns have been raised that some of the proposals are in violation of commitments made by the State under international legal acts, such as conventions of the International Labour Organisation. I and my fellow importers continue to think that the discussion should take place, proposals to discuss, refine and between the first and second votes to adopt texts that lead to changes in the Labour Code, facilitating the business conditions of micro-enterprises and small firms, in order to make them more viable and competitive, to reduce corruption pressure on businesses and, at the same time, not to harm the people of employment and not to take away their rights. We will accept and support all reasonable proposals in this direction. With the feeling that I am rushing, I will say that a longer period is needed between the first and second votes to achieve these intentions. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, the bill is presented to your attention. The discussion is open. Let's make the best decision! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u188	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. On behalf of the importers of the Bill of Mr. Petar Slavov and a group of MPs Mr. Slavov will present it to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u189	Thank you, Madam President. From the Reformation Block, we introduced the bill on the eve of the April Uprising about two months ago. He suggests that this date should be marked appropriately, that is to say, added to the official holidays explicitly written in the Labour Code. Colleagues, our proposal is to include the date for the celebrations for May 1st. You know that at the moment 1 May is a public holiday and then the International Day of Labour Solidarity is celebrated. In other words, our proposal is to celebrate May 1st as the anniversary of the April Uprising and International Day of Labour Solidarity. The interesting thing about the Bill is that, in most part, the colleagues of the Commission have abstained from voting, which is why I will say a few things in the hopes that I will influence them this time to support the bill and not to vote abstention. The Commission has received quite positive opinions, starting with the Ministry of Culture, going through the National Museum of History, including positive statements from trade unions, as well as many other organizations, not to mention everyone that I might miss one. The advantage of our proposal is, first of all, that such an important date will find a proper place and will be properly noted. Of course, this will not be related to the creation of just another day off, which would not appeal to business, which is why we propose 1 May to reconcile both dates. First of all, we place the April Uprising, as it is clearly chronologically and historically preceded the strike in the United States, which served as an occasion in 1886 for this day to be celebrated as International Labor Day. I can also bring many other arguments to your attention, for example, that the Bulgarian people have long and massively reenacted on May 1st, marking the April Uprising in a new style, and we can formalise it by legitimizing it in the Labour Code and making it official. As for other slightly critical arguments that in a new style the exact date is May 2, I return you to what somewhere has already become a tradition of reenactments and celebrations are mass on May 1st. That's how civility works. I don't see why we should artificially look for an opportunity to observe the right day and hold on to that. We are talking about marking the anniversary - an annual let this be celebrated, and it is not so significant whether the first or the second of May will be fixed the date. It is important to really mark this so important date in Bulgarian history. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u190	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. For the Law of the Council of Ministers on behalf of the importers, please, Mr. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u191	Madam President, Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code submitted by the Council of Ministers aims to create a legal opportunity to conclude agreements between representative employees' organisations and employers for the adoption of regulations when the agreement is concluded at their request after the assessment of the State or the State has proposed the conclusion of the agreement. The implementation of this agreement shall be entrusted and carried out by the State. The Bill also proposes the adoption of a new legal provision............................................................................................ 114a of the Labour Code, with a view to the need to regulate short-term seasonal agricultural work awarded by registered farmers through the conclusion of employment contracts per day. Labour contracts will be able to be carried out in the main economic activity of the branch only for the harvest of fruit, vegetables and pink, for professions not requiring special qualifications. Such contracts are intended to be able to be concluded with one worker in total for no more than 90 working days in a calendar year. It is explicitly provided that no notifications are sent to the National Revenue Agency. It is envisaged to issue a regulation by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy setting out the terms and conditions for the provision, registration and reporting of employment contracts before the Labour Inspection and establishing a model contract. It is proposed that these workers should be provided only in the Fund "Pensions" and the Fund "Trudy accident and occupational disease." Cash benefits in case of occupational accident and occupational disease will be paid for the period of incapacity, but for no more than 90 calendar days due to the short-term nature of seasonal agricultural work. Changes to the Health Insurance Act create an opportunity for the time during which these persons will be employed to be insured, with health insurance contributions being paid in advance by employers along with social security contributions. Changes are also proposed to enable workers during seasonal agricultural work not to be deprived of the unemployment benefits they receive and to be entitled to enjoy the full range of intermediary services under the Employment Promotion Act. This line is expected to employ between 60 and 100,000 workers and revenues in the budget of around 5 million. lv. from taxation of personal income and about 45 million income from insurance contributions. The bill also provides for the establishment of a provision for the regulation of the keeping of the employee's employment record. Each undertaking and organisation shall establish and keep employment records of its workers and employees, albeit express legal regulation, for that matter, in the Labour Code does not exist. With the proposal for a new text in the Labour Code........................................................................................... 128b, this omission in the legal regulation is removed and an obligation for the employer to keep the employee's employment record is explicitly regulated. A change in art. 139 of the Labor Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u192	Mr. Deputy Minister, I'm sorry, we've read the motives and we know them. Just a summary of the main topics. There is no procedure to read the motives of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u193	With changes in art. 139 shall be allowed at the request of the worker or employee and, where the working conditions in the undertaking allow, to create working hours with floating limits. The alignment of the normal duration for a 40-hour working week will take place within the working week. It is proposed that the leave at birth and raising a fourth child should be equalized with the birth of a first, second or third child at two years of age. This will focus on demographic policy and lead to equalisation of mothers in raising more than a third child. With the text of art. 192 of the Labour Code it is determined that the employer, when appointing an official who may impose disciplinary penalties, must be a senior official. With the amendments to art. 404 of the Labour Code introduces a new administrative measure: The labour inspectorate when stopping work machines, objects, sites and so on will put a sign indicating that the object concerned is suspended and will bear administrative-criminal responsibility for those who remove the sign. In a nutshell, this is the bill for amending and supplementing the Labour Code submitted by the Council of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-10.u194	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister. Colleagues, we've heard the importers' proposals. I'm opening the debate so we know we're in a debate procedure. The debate tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. Now that the time is 14:00, I am closing the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
