ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues. Please register. Abort registration. Second attempt at 9:15 p.m. 9:16 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u2	Colleagues, please take our seats and register. Abort registration. Third, final attempt at 9:30 p.m. Discovered at 9:30.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u3	Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to take their seats in the Chamber Registration! There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] Court is open. According to the weekly programme we have adopted as point one for today, it follows: TERMINATION OF THE FULL POWER OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. A resignation has been given by the MP Maya Manolova. By application of entry No 554-00-662 of 6 October 2015, Mrs Manolova stated that on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria resigns to the National Assembly. I offer to your attention a service project of ? RESPONSIBILITY? terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends Maya Bozidarova Manolova's authority as a Member of Parliament from 10. The debate is open. Are there any MPs who wish to take part in the resignation? I won't. We're closing the debate. I'm voting on the draft decision I introduced you to. Voting mode. Vote 153 MPs: 147, against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Next item of our weekly program: IMPLEMENTING A KICK BEFORE THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION BY THE OMBUDSMAN MANOVA. Mrs. Manolova, come in. I remind the Members of the National Assembly that with the decision to elect the Ombudsman The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 91a, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. Art. 8, Art. 8. 10, para. 2 of the Law on the Ombudsman HAS DECIDED He chose Maya Bozhidarova Manolova as the ombudsman. The decision was published in the Official Journal. I inform the Members of the National Assembly that all the conditions under the Ombudsman Act have been met and it is possible that the elected Mrs. Manolova as Ombudsman will take an oath. I ask the MPs to be ready. Repeat after me, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u4	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and to defend human rights and fundamental freedoms by fulfilling my powers in good faith and impartially. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u5	Congratulations!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u6	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have just formally taken an oath before you, but I have actually taken an oath to the Bulgarian citizens, whose rights I will defend firmly and actively in my capacity as Ombudsman. This concludes a stage of my life, of my political career, which is related to this temple of democracy.. with the National Assembly, which I have always had great respect for and great respect for, and for whose reputation I have made efforts. I say it's over, but I'm not saying it's a point because our work together, dear friends, doesn't end here. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Because I am sure that we will work together in my capacity as Ombudsman from now on. I will put before you important subjects for citizens..............................I will introduce changes in the laws concerning the rights of Bulgarian citizens, of course................................................. through Ms. Tsacheva. I will participate whenever you discuss important decisions concerning the rights and freedoms of the Bulgarians. But, of course, my first steps and my first weeks will be fully dedicated to meetings with the Bulgarian citizens and in my reception in Sofia and in the country. I will start my term with a tour of Bulgaria because, as I promised, I will be an ombudsman in action, I will face the problems on the ground, and I will not wait for them to look for me in Sofia, but I will always be here when it is discussed an important law for citizens or a legitimate topic, so today I am not saying goodbye to you, I am telling you just goodbye to you, because I am sure that we will be followers that we will be partners in the great battle for the rights of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause. Mrs. Maya Manolova received flowers and congratulations from the SG of BSP LB, as well as from all other parliamentary groups.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Colleagues, we continue with the next item of our weekly program: Chosen by the Court of Justice in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria of the QUOTA of People's Ration. I recall that part of the Decision adopting the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and choosing a judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria from the quota of the National Assembly, which is relevant to the procedure in plenary today. This is item V of the Decision: "V." Election of a judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria by the National Assembly. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly. By decision of the National Assembly, the candidates admitted may be present at the meeting. 2. Candidates shall be submitted according to the order defined in the list under Section IV, item 1. 8. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by an importer of the proposal in an exhibition within two minutes. 4. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall provide a summary of the report submitted for the hearing. 5. The deliberations on the nominations shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 6. The vote is evident through the computerized voting system, taking place according to the order of a specified in the list under Section IV, i.e. 8. 7. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates have received more than half of the votes of the present MPs, the candidate shall be considered to have received the most votes for. 8. In the event that more candidates receive an equal result, a runoff shall be carried out. 9. If necessary, a third vote shall be held under the same conditions. Under the rules of procedure, we must first adopt a decision on admission of candidates to the Chamber. Who's gonna propose it? Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u8	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Under the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, please put to the vote access for the two candidates Mr. Konstantin Penchev and Mr. Mikhail Kojarev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u9	We vote, fellow Members. They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, please invite the candidates to the Chamber. Please provide, on behalf of the importers, the candidates for the order of entry of nominations according to the list set out in Section IV. 8. Mr. Kirilov. [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] Point 2 is: "Applications shall be presented according to the order defined in the list. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by an importer in an exhibition within two minutes. Barely. 4 is: The Legal Affairs Committee presents a So I read exactly the procedure, Mr. Kirilov. The following is the presentation of the candidates for the order set out in the list. We're listening. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u10	Mr. Konstantin Penchev's candidacy will be presented to you. The candidate is among the most respected Bulgarian lawyers. He has more than 20 years of court experience, including as chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court. His rich professional experience in the field of administrative law, including as President of the Supreme Court, will contribute to improving the work of the Constitutional Court and to raising people's trust in this institution as an effective guarantor of the rule of law. We believe that Mr. Penchev is an honorable and decent person, with an undisputed reputation, has undisputed moral qualities which he has proved as a MP, magistrate and Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Penchev would be a successful and worthy member of the Constitutional Court. As President of the Supreme Administrative Court and as Ombudsman Mr. Penchev performed and had activity in a direction similar to that which he would carry out as constitutional judge. He has participated in formations of courts, he has ruled on complaints against regulations, he has pleaded his opinion, he has the ability to work with colleagues and a composition. As Ombudsman Mr. Penchev has addressed the Constitutional Court 11 times, which has given him the opportunity to establish the criteria, conditions and prerequisites under which requests should be made to the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u11	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Kojarev's candidacy will be presented by Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u12	Madam President, Members of Parliament, I present to you the candidacy of Mr. Mihail Georgiev Kojarev. Mr. Mikhail Kojarev was born on 25 May 1958 in Bansko, Blagoevgrad district. He graduated from primary and secondary education in his hometown and higher education at Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski, specialty of Law, regular training, during the period 1976. He was an intern of a court of law in Blagoevgrad, and after passing a theoretical-practical exam he started working as a legal consultant in the Communications Equipment Combine.. Blagoevgrad, the telephone equipment factory..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He worked as a bailiff at the District Court of Razlog, then as a judge in the same court, six years being President of the District Court. He worked as a lawyer for a total of 15 years. He was Head of the Legal Management of the Forest Committee and Deputy Head of the National Forest Management. He was a prosecutor at the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office, a prosecutor at the Prosecutor General's Office, where he was responsible for the financial and business management of the Prosecutor's Office of Bulgaria for some time. He was a prosecutor in the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office and Deputy Prosecutor General. He is currently a member of the Supreme Judicial Council, elected from the judiciary quota. I repeat: elected from the quota of the judiciary, not political choice. He was Chairman of the Committee on Budget and Finance of the Supreme Judicial Council, a member of the Disciplinary Commission, of the International Commission and of the Committee on Proposals and Statements. Mr. Kojarev specialized in the country and abroad civil, administrative, criminal law and law of the European Union. He has been involved in the development of bills, both autonomously and in a group, in the preparation of opinions of the Prosecutor General on constitutional matters and in the interpretation of decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court. He's had over 33 years of legal internship. Married, with one child. A proven professional, a man of high morals, a patriot. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u13	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. We will now hear in summary the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs from the hearing of the candidates admitted for judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Kirilov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u14	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the hearing of the candidates admitted as Judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria At its meeting held on 2 October 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs held a hearing of the candidates admitted as Judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria, in accordance with Section IV of the National Assembly's Decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and choosing a Judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria from the National Assembly's quota adopted by a decision of the National Assembly of 11 September 2015. (DV, No. 71, 2015). On the grounds of t. 1 of Section IV, the order of the hearing shall be defined alphabetically according to the applicant's own names: 1. Mr. Konstantin Lubenov Penchev; 2. Mr. Mikhail Georgiev Kojarev. On behalf of the importers Mr. Konstantin Penchev's candidacy was presented by Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova. In this regard and after the presentation Mr. Penchev stressed that he supports the idea of introducing an individual constitutional complaint, as he said the more the possibility of referral to the Constitutional Court will be extended, the more perfect the legislation in line with the Constitution will be. He pointed out that the role of the Constitutional Court is to safeguard the Constitution, but it should not interfere with and influence the decisions taken by the National Assembly politically, both for the adoption of laws and for the adoption of a change in the Constitution. On behalf of the importers, Mr. Mikhail Kojarev's candidacy was presented by Mr. Valeri Simeonov. After this presentation in his exhibition Mr. Mihail Kojarev said that the Constitutional Court deals with a large volume of matter that requires serious analysis of the Constitution and individual laws. He believes that the powers of the Constitutional Court should be increased with regard to accumulated public relations, constitutional practice and legislative clarity. As examples, he pointed out the regulation of the possibility of a repudiation and absolution of the constitutional judge, an indication in the Constitution of powers for the contested election of a Member of the European Parliament and a uniformity of matter concerning the time of entry of the Constitutional Court's decision in force. Mr. Kojarev spoke in support of the introduction of the individual constitutional complaint. According to him, the material power of the Constitutional Court's decisions should reflect changes in public relations, legislation and legal theory. The proposed candidates Mr. Konstantin Penchev and Mr. Mihail Kojarev meet the legal requirements, possess the necessary qualities and preparation for taking up the position of judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. In the Committee on Legal Affairs were received opinions from the Center for the Study of Democracy, the Foundation...... access to information............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In their opinions, NGOs highly appreciate his professional experience, moral and personal qualities. The Committee on Legal Affairs addressed the two candidates from the Bulgarian Institute for Legal Initiatives. Questions to the candidates for a judge in the Constitutional Court put MPs Petar Slavov, Cetin Kazak, Dimitar Lazarov, Dimitar Delchev, Valeri Simeonov and Chavdar Georgiev. In response to the question asked by Mr Slavov as to whether some of the decisions of the Constitutional Court should not be reviewed, Mr Penchev justified his view that, given the dynamics in the development of public relations, the Constitutional Court should review its interpretations as long as this is clearly expressed and reasoned. According to Mr. Kozharev there is no need for some special approach in interpretation because the Constitution itself is constructed flexible and open to new national and supranational public relations which cannot be ignored, including in their interpretation. In relation to the pointed contradiction between art. Art. 66. 149, para. 1, t. 7 of the Constitution, Mr. Kazak raised questions as to how it can be overcome, whether it is appropriate for the Constitutional Court to have jurisdiction for both types of contesting of the elections as a whole and the election of a separate MP, and how should the election of the MP be challenged in the light of the electoral system in Bulgaria. The two candidates answered Mr. Kazak's question. With regard to the second question raised by Mr Kazak concerning the possible collision and duplication of the powers of the Ombudsman and the Supreme Judicial Council to refer to the Constitutional Court, in the event that a proposal for amendment of the Constitution is adopted, the two candidates agreed on the view that they welcome the extension of the circle of subjects competent to refer to the Constitutional Court, but that their powers should be limited and refined. People's representative Dimitar Delchev raised a question about the possibility that the fundamental rights regulated in the Constitution could be bound by obligations, given and the discussion on the right to choose. In response Mr. Penchev pointed out that he does not support the final opinion that the mandatory vote contradicts the Constitution, but this is a controversial issue which is related to the interpretation of the Constitution and to possible changes. Mr. Kozharev expressed his opinion that all these rights, which are listed in the preamble to the Constitution, should be protected precisely because it is the bearer of the concentrated expression of the rule of law relating to the protection of human rights. By referring to data from an audit report of the Internal Audit Office of the Supreme Judicial Council of 2011 and other documents, Mr. Valeri Simeonov raised a question to Mr. Penchev whether he believes that he has the necessary qualities for occupying the position of the Court of Justice. In response Mr. Penchev said that in his life there is no act to be ashamed of, but he should not give an assessment of his qualities. In view of the above, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, proposes to the National Assembly a draft decision for the election of a judge in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. "Acceptance No 1' List of candidates involved in the hearing 1. Mr. Konstantin Lubenov Penchev; 2. Mr. Mihail Georgiev Kojarev. Annex 2 to the EEA Agreement shall be Project! DECISION on the election of a judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 147, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 4 of the Constitutional Court Act HAS DECIDED Choose [[name indicated]] as judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u15	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is open. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u16	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! At the Legal Committee meeting last Friday, I set out facts and circumstances related to Mr. Penchev's biography, which, in my opinion, as well as to my colleagues, do not give us any reason to support this application. I would like to introduce you to these facts and documents, as this is essential for making the right decision by any person with a conscience. First, there were violations of financial and budgetary discipline and the Public Procurement Act in the Supreme Administrative Court with then-chairman Mr. Konstantin Lyubenov Penchev for the period 2009 - 2010. The statement was carried out on 19 October 2010. These findings are set out in an audit report of the Internal Audit Office at the Supreme Judicial Council for an audit commitment to give confidence OA 1101 to the Supreme Judicial Council, No 9301016190911. Anyone who wishes may familiarize himself with this audit report. The report identified 8 groups of serious violations, creating prerequisites for fraud, embezzlement, embezzlement and homelessness. The findings in the report were made on the basis of five groups of findings and cover 93 pages, including data of abuse of hundreds of thousands of levs, restocking with materials for 60 years ahead, appointments of personnel in violation of the Labour Code and others. The report was sent by the Supreme Judicial Council of the Ministry of Interior in 2012 and has not yet been published. If you will excuse me, I will read some findings: The internal controls at the Supreme Administrative Court have not provided in accordance with the established decisions of the Supreme Judicial Council for the allocation of amounts to sub-accounted persons in the judicial authorities of the Court of Justice, prosecution and investigation services. Internal controls have not acted effectively and have not sufficiently ensured compliance with the regulatory requirements. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]] Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u17	Please remain silent in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u18	I can't get used to the ladies in the front row. There are sufficient data that can be characterised as indicators of fraud within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 2 of the Additional Provisions of the Internal Audit Act in the Public Sector. The main objective of the annual inventory has not been met, namely a credible representation of the assets and liabilities in the annual financial statements to the court; the instructions of the Ministry of Finance and the Supreme Judicial Council on the revaluation of intangible fixed assets have not been complied with; violations of contractual and financial discipline have been allowed in the implementation of the contracts concluded; during the verification period a large part of the established internal rules and procedures concerning internal control have not been complied with, have not been implemented and the rest have been formally carried out, and many violations, omissions and errors have been committed, which have not been detected and resolved in due time. In this report there are extremely interesting facts and I recommend that you get to know them. There are employment assignments for employees on the holiday base when there is zero attendance and a civil contract after appointments are of the nature of a contract of employment, continuous working hours and so on, things that at least in the Supreme Administrative Court should know them. There is a restocking, as I said, with materials for 60 years ahead; there are contracts for the execution of repairs, supplies and so on at one price, and paid on invoices at a higher price at any time at a higher price, close to 50%, not at a lower price. In other words, a contract is signed for a certain service for 100 BGN, the company performs the service, releases an invoice for 150 BGN. And that's paid off. There are numerous such cases. The violations are over several hundred thousand leva. There are other drastic violations that I'm not going to dwell on anymore. Anyone who wants to know may be introduced. These are facts, not dirt.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u19	Have the D.A. and the Ministry of Interior been approached?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u20	Yes, the report is in the Ministry of Interior. I said that thing, but at that moment you were talking. A second fact that I came across..............................in the period 2005.... for illegal acquisition of property by magistrates in the Supreme Administrative Court. The scandalous case with the city. Primorsko, in the old part of which, the only remaining unbuilt nose was sold to several famous magistrates for construction experiments. Among them Nikolai Urumov, Panayot Genkov, Andrei Ikonomov. And at this moment on this clean nose there is a sturdy ridiculous building that does not even have architectural qualities owned by the daughter of Urumov, and continues to be there without being able to remove it as it is legalized. This is due precisely to a violation of the then period not so much of the laws as of morality. There was an agreement between the then mayor of Primorsko Dimitar Dimitrov to open a court in Primorsko against providing property. This thing Mr. Penchev as Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court knew it, knew it and then as Ombudsman. He denied to the media that he had information, but before the Ethical Commission of the Supreme Judicial Council he admitted it. This can be verified in Protocol 39 of 4 September 2010 of the Ethics Committee. I can give it to anyone who wants it. That's where he admits he knew. He admitted that his facts were known personally by the magistrates, as well as by the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation Ivan Grigorov since 2005, and until 2010 he denied that he knew it. For this there are publications that are also applied. I leave it to you to decide whether a person with such morals can be a representative of the highest court in Bulgaria.............................................................................................. Thirdly, Konstantin Penchev distributed political election cases in the Supreme Administrative Court alone without using the system for accidental distribution of these cases. Moreover, he has even personally participated in some of them. This, too, has recognised Protocol 39 of 4 September 2010, p. Three and four. The next circumstance, which calls into question whether this person has the necessary qualities for the post for which he applied, is the fact that in his property declarations he has not declared to the Court of Auditors two apartments owned by his family; he has not declared in eight consecutive years from 2007 to 2014. Such recognition has also been given to the Ethics Committee. 3 of the protocol. When this question was put before the Legal Committee, Mr. Penchev replied that it was a omission. At the same time, however, in the same eight years he did not fail to declare several plots and fields that he had as an inheritance, but somehow the apartments forgot to declare them. As a shareholder in a public limited company, Mr. Penchev has withheld data in his declaration for 2009 and 2010 that he is a shareholder. It's about a clear conflict of interest. As President of the Supreme Administrative Court and Ombudsman, he was obliged to declare them compulsory! There is also a recognition of the page. 3 of the protocol. These facts were presented and the importers of the proposal tried not to give Mr. Penchev the opportunity to respond, because this was clearly dirt. It's not dirt, it's paperwork. [[shows them]] . Protocol is also a document. The circumstances of his statements are also documented. I remain on your conscience to decide whether this person has the necessary qualities. Dear colleagues from GERB, dear Mrs. Atanasova, you defended him, honourable colleagues from the Reformation Block! I would very much like to support you in all the endeavours that would lead to the removal of corruption in the judiciary, to judicial reform, to a change of the Constitution. We've done it from the bottom of our hearts. How can we continue to be sure that you truly, truly want to change the judiciary in Bulgaria?! Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u21	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. The line is Mr. Daniel Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Simeonov, I take a reply because of the following: you presented the audit report in question at the meeting of the Legal Committee. Unfortunately, none of the colleagues, members of the Legal Committee or colleagues, wanted to get acquainted with the audit report in question. I just want to read a few other paragraphs of the conclusions for objectivity, because you have read some of them: The planning and distribution of funds on the budgetary account of the court are in line with the provision of the State Budget Structure Act, the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2011 and with the instructions of the Supreme Judicial Council. The revenue, expenditure and transfers are correctly taken into account under the relevant paragraphs and sub-paragraphs of the single budgetary classification of the corresponding accounts of the budgetary undertakings' accounts. The established parameters of the court's budget account are preserved. My point is that there are a large part and positive findings, including in the final part, as is the standard for carrying out such an audit, albeit in-house, a detailed risk assessment table has been applied. However, I would like to read you just one paragraph: A consequence of the bad organisation and the lack of control by the former chief accountant and the former chief secretary of the court, there were violations of the regulations and orders of the President in the two proceedings in 2010. "Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u23	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Colleagues, I think we've changed the subject of the debate. We are not debating an audit report. The subject of today's report is quite different. Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Simeonov. We expect you to say something in support of your candidate. You don't have a second chance to speak, so now is the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u24	There are others. Dear Madam President, Mr. Kirilov, you know that each unit is managed by a specific administrative manager, in this case it is Mr. Penchev. What you said is true. Only I don't think it takes responsibility off his shoulders. I also set out a number of violations that are, to put it mildly, brutal and cannot be done without the signature of the Supreme Administrative Court, and this has been proven. The fact that the report was carried out correctly does not mean that there are no violations in it. It is in this report that these violations that I have introduced you to are exposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u25	To make a statement there is Mr. Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members, today the National Assembly is faced with an extremely important choice. From the debates that have been heard so far, it seems easier for the government to change the Constitution than to choose its apostles, the people who should protect it and protect it as it is. The proposed applications thus appear to be indisputable in terms of legal capacity, in terms of professionalism. Here I open a clamp, unfortunately for me, this is the issue of the President's candidacy with Mr. Dimitrov, who is not sure where he has accumulated his legal internship, which has reasonable and uncorrupted doubts of himself that he has endangered national security and which does not accept the Constitution, which is now called upon to defend it. It was good for the president to at least wait for these debates before issuing his decree. In these conditions of Bulgarian parliamentaryism, in which we are all placed, it is very important that the applicant, who will be a constitutional judge, be independent, be objective, be independent. For us, however, this objectivity has been called into question with regard to one of the candidates. In most of his career, he held various leadership positions, represented by various political forces in various political backgrounds. This is of utmost importance. The future candidate and constitutional judge, for him the only objective criterion to be the Constitution and its norms, not the majority in plenary, not the government and not the government. We will therefore decide which of the two applications to support, but for us, there are really reasonable doubts so far with regard to one of them with regard to its impartiality and objectivity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u27	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, honourable candidates for the post of Constitutional Judge of the Republic of Bulgaria! I would like to be most responsible for saying that I have been very carefully acquainted with both the report of the Legal Committee and the transcript, and also with the video of the two candidates being heard. I can clearly and categorically state that the candidacy of the lawyer, the man Mikhail Kojarev, is extremely worthy, extremely unblemished, as should be a constitutional judge. Today, it is extremely important that we vote and accept precisely such a candidacy, responsible, with undisputed professional qualities. I dare say that many lawyers have spoken that the statements and answers made by Mr. Mikhail Kojarev during the hearing were extremely professional. Amazing! The kind a constitutional judge should have. Today, however, we need to put the emphasis very clearly and precisely, because I have also come to know the report, indeed, of serious, moral qualities. Just a few weeks ago, this same Parliament, this same National Assembly member, did not give his trust to Mr. Penchev for a second term as Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria and, in my opinion, with full reason. Today, the worthy candidacy, the one for which every MP should vote, is precisely that of Mr. Mikhail Kojarev. I address my colleagues from the Reformation Bloc, I address my colleagues from GERB,...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u29	You can ask for a time extension.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u30	I want an extension. ...that we are about to adopt an anti-corruption law, we are about to adopt an amendment to the Constitution. If we do not make the right choice today, I will personally call on my colleagues to review the adoption of the Constitution, because this will mean that we do not want to fight corruption. We do not want to fight these norms of ethics, which vitiate every single authority and especially the one that should protect the Bulgarian Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u31	- What's the line? I won't. Procedure Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u32	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria and we want half an hour's rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u33	Your request is premature, Mr. Georgiev. We started at 9:30, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u34	Look, before... [[Noise and lines in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u35	Are there any other MPs who would like to speak? There aren't any. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber, a vote is yet to be taken. Colleagues, in accordance with the procedural rules under the terms of the candidates, according to the list, which constitutes Annex 1, I shall put to the vote the following draft decision on the election of a judge in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 86, para. Art. 1, in conjunction with Art. 1 147, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 4 of the Constitutional Court Act HAS DECIDED He elected Konstantin Lyubenov Penchev as judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. Voting mode. They voted 143 MPs: 98, against 12, abstention 33. Draft Decision on the election of Judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 86, para. Art. 1, in conjunction with Art. 1 147, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 4 of the Constitutional Court Act HAS DECIDED He elected Mihail Georgiev Kojarev as judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. Please vote! They voted 145 MPs: 62, against 11, abstention 72. In the case of a quorum of 69 Members of Parliament today, this Draft Decision, this proposal, is not accepted as it does not raise any more of the present Members of the National Assembly. According to Section V of the Rules of Procedure, 7, the candidate who received more than half of the votes from the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. A valid decision, voted by us, found that Mr. Konstantin Penchev was elected a member of the Constitutional Court. [[Applause.]] Congratulations to Mr. Penchev! Thank you for participating in the plenary session of Mr. Penchev and Mr. Kojarev. Dear Members of the National Assembly, on today 136 years ago in the building of the National Assembly, Slovenian Anton Bezensek, invited by the then Bulgarian government, opens the first course for training of Bulgarian stenographers and this is considered the birthday of Bulgarian stenography. Since then, Bulgarian fast-trackers have been careful to reflect the events of Bulgaria's latest history. Therefore, allow me, on my behalf and on your behalf, to congratulate the Bulgarian stenographers and especially the parliamentary stenographers with their professional celebration. [[Applause.]] We wish them health and still with inexhaustible energy and enthusiasm to reflect the activities of the institutions of modern Bulgaria. Happy Thanksgiving, fellow Members! [[Applause.]] Colleagues, on the day yesterday when you refer to the stenogram of the section. 12 A draft for ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement amending and supplementing and extending the Agreement on the provision of grants under the Programme of the International Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Bulgaria is valid at the first reading of this Law. A voting procedure has been requested in a plenary sitting and at second reading of the Bill. The procedure is supported by a decision of the National Assembly. In reporting, however, at second reading, there is a discrepancy between what the rapporteur has read and what is really in the ratification project. I therefore believe that we are in second voting mode. Mrs. Daritkova, you have the opportunity at second reading to report this bill in order to hold a valid vote on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Report to second reading: THE LAW OF THE on ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement amending and supplementing and continuing the Agreement on the grant of grants under the Programme of the International Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Bulgaria. A single member. Ratification of the Agreement amending, supplementing and continuing the Agreement on the provision of grants under the Programme "Prevention and control of HIV/AIDS in Bulgaria" between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Bulgaria, signed on 23 March 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u37	Statements? I won't. I put to the second vote the Bill of ratification by its name, the only member and the version of this article. They voted 102 MPs: 98, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. The next item in our weekly program is: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE MEMORANDUM FOR THE RESTRUCTURING BETWEEN THE MINISTRY OF THE INTERNAL WORKS OF BULGARIA, THE MINISTERY OF THE INTERNAL WORKS OF HUNGARY, THE GOVERNMENT OF THE Reports have been received from the committees to which it has been assigned. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. We're listening, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u38	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Interior of Hungary, the Government of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Justice and Public Security of Norway, the Swedish Migration Board, the Swedish Ministry of Justice and the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy on the Implementation of the Project At its meeting held on 10 June 2015, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined the Draft for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Interior of Hungary, the Government of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Justice and Public Security of Norway, the Swedish Migration Board, the Swedish Ministry of Justice and the International Migration Policy Development Centre on the Implementation of the Migration Partnership in the Region on the Silk Road under the Budapestchen Process, No 502-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 May 2015. The meeting was attended by a representative of the Ministry of Interior, Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov, who presented the bill. The bill aims to strengthen the capacity to manage migration in the countries in the region on the Silk Road within the Budapestna process. The project activities will be implemented in Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iraq as countries of origin for migration flows. The specific activities of the Project and the measures for their practical implementation are planned by the Management Group, in which the Bulgarian side participates. The duration of the project is three years, with the start being set in 2014. The total budget of the project amounts to 3 million. And 200,000. Euros. The financing of the project is mainly provided by the European Commission, with major donors being countries such as Hungary, the Netherlands, Sweden and Norway. The Bulgarian country participates with a minimum financial contribution of 3200 euros. Expenditure related to the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding will be provided by the approved budget of the Ministry of Interior of the relevant year. Since the Memorandum of Understanding provides for a financial commitment for the country, it is subject to ratification by the National Assembly. The draft Memorandum of Understanding has been approved as the basis for negotiation with the Council of Ministers' decision on the issue. 20 of Protocol No 21 of the Council of Ministers meeting on 29 May 2014. As a result of the discussion, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee adopted the following opinion: Offers to the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to support the Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Interior of Hungary, the Government of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Justice and Public Security of Norway, the Swedish Migration Board, the Swedish Ministry of Justice and the International Migration Policy Development Centre on the Implementation of the Project The opinion of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee is adopted unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u39	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. We will now hear the report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Mrs. Yordanova is ready to report it to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u40	Thank you, Madam President. At a meeting held on 4 June 2015, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Interior of Hungary, the Government of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Justice and Public Security of Norway, the Swedish Migration Board, the Swedish Ministry of Justice and the International Migration Policy Development Centre on the Implementation of the Project The bill with an importer Council of Ministers was presented by Mr. Krasimir Tzipov. The financing of the project is mainly provided by the European Commission. Hungary, the Netherlands, Sweden and Norway are also its main donors. The Bulgarian country participates with a minimum financial contribution of 0,01 percent of the total value of the project of 3200 euros. Expenditure related to the implementation of the Memorandum will be provided by the approved budget of the Ministry of Interior for the relevant year. After a discussion of the draft, a vote followed, which ended with the following results: with 17 votes for the resolution of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Interior of Hungary, the Government of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Justice and Public Security of Norway, the Board of Migration of Sweden, the Ministry of Justice of Sweden and the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy on the implementation of the project.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Who will present us with the report of the Committee on Foreign Policy? Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u42	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Foreign Policy on a bill for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Interior of Hungary, the Government of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Justice and Public Security of Norway, the Swedish Migration Board, the Ministry of Justice of the Sweden and the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy on the implementation of the project "Support for a Partnership for Migration in the Region on the Silk Road within the Budapestina Process', No 502-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 May 2015. The draft Memorandum of Understanding has been approved as the basis for negotiation with a decision of the Council of Ministers on the issue. 20 of Protocol No 21 of the Council of Ministers meeting on 29 May 2014. The conclusion of the Memorandum of Understanding is related to the implementation of the project. The project aims to strengthen migration management capacity in the countries in the region on the Silk Road. The activities under the Project (seminars, trainings of trainers) will be carried out in Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iraq. The participation of the Bulgarian country in the project will help to develop clear measures that will respond adequately to the specific needs and to the current challenges in the management of migration processes. The Project Development Guidelines are set out by the Management Group, which plans the specific activities and measures for their practical implementation, in which the Bulgarian side will participate. In the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding, the Ministry of Interior is committed as follows: to define an official contact point for the Project; to participate in the meetings related to the implementation of the Project; to provide expertise and experience as a national non-cash contribution to the Project corresponding to the developed descriptions for the activities; to provide a significant contribution to the project's results; to provide co-financing for the Project. The financing of the project is mainly provided by the European Commission. The main donors are also Hungary, the Netherlands, Sweden and Norway. The Bulgarian country participates with a minimum financial contribution of 0,01 percent of the total value of the project. Expenditure related to the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding will be provided by the approved budget of the Ministry of Interior for the relevant year. At a regular meeting held on 14 May 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers. After hearing the reasons for the bill, a discussion and a vote was held, as a result of which, with 12 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposed to the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to adopt the draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding submitted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u43	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Colleagues, debate regime. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The point we are discussing today is related to some chronology of previous actions and it is that this same Memorandum was signed by the Bulgarian side on 3 June 2014. One year later, on 29 April 2015, the Council of Ministers confirmed and proposed to the National Assembly to ratify the Memorandum. The National Assembly shall examine this ratification on 8 October 2015. Nearly a year and a half after signing the memorandum by the Bulgarian side. As you have heard, the project itself is within three years of 2014, 2015 and 2016. There will be better management of migration processes in enhanced international cooperation and a network of contacts between specialists from different areas in the field of migration. The very identification of existing and potential challenges and the search for common solutions by sharing experience together with finding and implementing ways of implementing these solutions will be useful in terms of perspective, as we have an increased migratory pressure and difficulties in managing migration flows. In the crisis with the immigrant wave, it is not possible that there is no coordination and interaction. As a separate country, we have neither the capacity to react nor an expert strategy to defend our national interests. From the position taken by Borisov before Merkel, there was a scandal followed by ridiculous explanations for a translation error. Honourable Members, this ratification is necessary in order to ensure joint efforts to ensure the control and management of crisis situations. Despite the delay on the part of the institutions, I recall that the ratification itself should be notified by the Ministry of Interior to the other countries and on the first date of next month, if the Ministry of Interior does its job, it should be in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u45	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Are there any lines to the speech of the MP Krasimir Yankov? I won't. Anyone else who would like to speak in this House? I can't see. We are going to vote at the first reading of the Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Interior of Hungary, the Government of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Justice and Public Security of Norway, the Swedish Migration Board, the Swedish Ministry of Justice and the International Migration Policy Development Centre on the implementation of the project. The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to participate in the vote. Accordingly, a request to the chairmen of the parliamentary groups to do the same. There are several ratifications to follow, not to get a name check. Voting mode. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding has been adopted by 78 votes. Mr. Atanasov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a procedural proposal and I ask you to put it to the vote: that the bill in question be put to a second vote in this sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u47	A reverse opinion? I won't. Voting mode. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mr. Atanasov, please read the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Interior of Hungary, the Government of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Justice and Public Security of Norway, the Board of Migration of Sweden, the Ministry of Justice of Sweden and the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy on the implementation of the project A single member. He established a Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Interior of Hungary, the Government of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Justice and Public Security of Norway, the Swedish Migration Board, the Swedish Ministry of Justice and the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy on the implementation of the project.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u49	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Statements? I can't see. I'm putting the bill I just read to the second vote. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The draft was adopted at second reading by 83 votes. The next item on the agenda is: LAW FOR THE RATEFICING OF THE CHANGE OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE SWITZERLAND CONFEDERATION ON THE CONFEDERATION OF FINANCIAL AID. Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 18 June 2015 The Committee on Budget and Finance has a single report. Please, Mrs. Yordanova, read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At its meeting held on 25 June 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement. The bill with importer The Council of Ministers was presented by Mr. Vladislav Goranov. The Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Swiss Confederation on financial assistance amounting to 60 million. Swiss francs was signed on 24 December 1992 and in accordance with art. 10 of it has been continued several times by exchanging letters between the two governments. The funds have been used as a priority for projects in the field of infrastructure, with particular importance being attributed to projects in the environmental, health and energy sectors. The funds used so far exceed 52 million. Swiss francs. The hospital waste burning facility, Plovdiv, has not yet been completed due to serious contradictions between Plovdiv Municipality and the supplier company, which are currently under way. With the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Union on 1 January 2007 the financing of new projects outside the framework of the 1992 Agreement was terminated. The continuation of the Agreement until 31 December 2016 is imposed only for the purpose of the final completion of the existing project. On the basis of art. 85, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The amendment to the Agreement is subject to ratification by the National Assembly. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held at which the members of the Committee on Budget and Finance expressed their principled support for the so-called draft. After the discussion of the draft followed a vote, which ended with the following results: with 15 votes for the draft, 0 votes against the draft and 0 votes abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly that the Draft for ratification of the Amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Swiss Confederation on financial assistance submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 June 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Debate mode. Hey, guys, any speeches? I won't. We're closing the debate. Colleagues, we are voting on a bill for ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Swiss Confederation on financial assistance, No 502-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 June 2015. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. The bill was passed at first reading. Mrs. Yordanova, please come in for a second reading procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose on the grounds of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to put to the second vote the newly voted ratification bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u53	A reverse opinion? I won't. Please vote for a second reading, honourable Members. Vote 74 MPs: for 73, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova, read the whole text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u54	THE LAW OF THE ratifying the Amendment to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Swiss Confederation on financial assistance A single member. Ratifying the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Swiss Confederation on financial assistance by Exchange of Letters on 17 December 2014 and 8 May 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Statements? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Voting regime, honourable Members, at second reading the Law on ratification, just read by Mrs. Yordanova. Please vote. Vote 79 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 1. The law was passed at second reading. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u56	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose between the first and second votes of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forestry Equipment, No 502-01-61, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 July 2015, to extend the period from one to three weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u57	A reverse opinion? I can't see. We are voting on the proposal of the President of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, Mr. Hristov, to extend the period between the two readings. Please vote. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. Unanimous offer accepted. The next item on the agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE COMPANY BETWEEN BULGARIA AND THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT-COBRITANIA AND NERVER IRELAND FOR THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE TWO-PAYING AND PREVENTATION OF THE DISCLOSURE OF THE DELIVERIES AND THE PAYS FROM THE TRANSFER OF IMMUNITY. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 10 July 2015. Mrs. Yordanova, please submit the report to the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u58	At a meeting held on 16 July 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion of income and profits from the transfer of property. The bill with importer of the Council of Ministers was presented by Ms. Karina Karaivanova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The Agreement between the People's Republic of Bulgaria and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland is currently in force between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the avoidance of double taxation signed in 1987. Since then, economic relations have changed radically. The current international treaty lacks adequate legal regulation of this type of public relations, leading to limited application of the agreement and the inability to combat effectively in order to prevent tax evasion, tax evasion and tax fraud. The above reasons require the signing of a new document and a new Agreement was signed in Sofia on 26 March 2015. The undisputed benefits of its conclusion are: an up-to-date and effective CDDO, which will, to a maximum extent and will protect the interests of the two countries equally; the development and enrichment of the Bulgarian contractual practice under the BCCI with favourable permissions for the Bulgarian state; it will be a tool for helping to strengthen and stimulate economic and any other cooperation between the two countries in mutual interest. International treaties relating to the operation of the law or requiring legislative measures for their implementation, such as the Agreement, shall be subject to ratification by the National Assembly by law, on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held at which the members of the Committee on Budget and Finance expressed their principled support for the so-called draft. After the discussion followed a vote, which ended with the following results: 13 votes for...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to support the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion of income and profits from the transfer of property, No 502-02-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 July 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Report of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Georg Georgiev, Commissioner, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u60	Honourable President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion of income and profits from the transfer of property, No 502-02-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 July 2015. A new Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland was signed in Sofia on 26 March 2015 to avoid double taxation and prevent tax evasion and profits from the transfer of property. Between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, at present, an Agreement between the Government of the People's Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland is in place to avoid double taxation of income and profits from the transfer of property. However, this international treaty was signed in 1987 when economic relations between the two countries were fundamentally different. The new Agreement signed with the United Kingdom after its ratification and entry into force will have the following favourable consequences: - an up-to-date and effective Agreement which, to a maximum extent, protects the interests of the two countries equally; - development and enrichment of the Bulgarian contractual practice under the Agreement by re-negotiating the most applicable Bulgarian agreements with favourable permissions for the Bulgarian state; this gives stronger positions of the Republic of Bulgaria in the planned re-negotiation of the Agreement with other Member States of the European Union. The new Agreement signed will be an effective instrument for regulating in the most favourable and mutually beneficial manner all matters between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in the field of international double taxation. It will contribute to strengthening and stimulating economic and any other cooperation between the two countries in mutual interest. At a regular meeting held on 22 July 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers. On the basis of the reasons presented by Mr. Feyzi Bekir, Deputy Minister of Finance and Mrs. Iskra Slavcheva, Director of the Directorate for Double Taxation in the National Assembly, and the discussion held with 14 votes for the Ministry of Finance, without opposition and abstention, the Foreign Policy Commission shall propose to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to adopt the draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion of income and profits from the transfer of property.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u61	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Statements, coworkers? I don't see anyone who wants to. We're closing the debate. Honourable Members, we are voting for a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the avoidance of double taxation and the avoidance of income tax and profits from the transfer of property, No 502-02-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 July 2015. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The ratification of the Agreement was unanimously adopted at first reading. Mrs. Yordanova, please come in for a second reading procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I suggest that you allow a second vote procedure for the newly adopted ratification.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u63	A reverse opinion? I can't see. We are voting on Mrs. Yordanova's proposal for second reading. Vote 76 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 1. The proposal for a second reading of the Bill is adopted. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u64	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion from income and profits from the transfer of property A single member. It ratifies the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion of income and profits from the transfer of property, signed on 26 March 2015 in Sofia.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u65	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the newly read Law on ratification of the Agreement at second reading. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The ratification was adopted unanimously at second reading. Dear colleagues, take 30 minutes off. [[Replying from the hall.]] That is the decision of the Conference of Presidents. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u66	Colleagues, the meeting is ongoing. Coming up next: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE DISCLOSURE OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND ROMANTION FOR THE AVOIDATION OF THE TWO-TALKING AND PREVENTATION OF THE DISCLOSURE OF THE DAILS. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u67	Thank you, Madam President. At its meeting held on 10 September 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of income tax evasion submitted by the Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by Mr. Fezi Bekir, Deputy Minister of Finance. At present, between the two countries, an Agreement is in place to avoid double taxation and prevent tax evasion from income and property tax (CDE), signed in Bucharest on 1 June 1994. The new Agreement was signed on 24 April 2015 in the town of Krajova, Romania. Its signature is due to the fact that the old Agreement was signed more than 20 years ago when the economic relations between the two parties were different, resulting in a limited application of the Agreement and the failure of the State concerned to effectively combat the prevention of tax evasion, tax evasion and tax fraud. The new BCCI includes clauses consistent with recent changes in the area of taxation and exchange of information and, after ratification and entry into force, protection will be ensured in an equal manner for the interests of the two countries in the area of double taxation. After the presentation of the draft was held a discussion and a subsequent vote, which ended with the following results: with 13 votes for the draft, without abstention and abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania on the avoidance of double taxation and prevention of income tax evasion, No 502-02-23, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 17 July 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u68	Thank you. We will now hear the report from the Committee on Foreign Policy. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u69	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of income tax evasion, No 502-02-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 July 2015. On 24 April 2015, a new Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania was signed in the town of Craiova, Romania to avoid double taxation and prevent income tax evasion (CDE). Between the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania, at present, an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Romania is in place to avoid double taxation and prevent tax evasion and property tax, signed in Bucharest on 1 June 1994. However, this international treaty was signed more than 20 years ago when economic relations between the two countries were fundamentally different. The new Agreement with Romania after ratification and entry into force will have the following favourable consequences: - an up-to-date and effective Agreement which, to a maximum extent, protects the interests of the two countries equally; - development and enrichment of the Bulgarian contractual practice under the SIDDO by re-negotiating the most applicable Bulgarian SIDDO with favourable permissions for the Bulgarian state; this gives stronger positions to the Republic of Bulgaria in the planned re-negotiation of the SIDDO with other European countries. The new Agreement signed will be an up-to-date and effective instrument for regulating all issues between the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania in the field of international double taxation in a most favourable and mutually beneficial manner. It will contribute to strengthening and stimulating economic and any other cooperation between the two neighbouring countries in mutual interest. At a regular meeting held on 22 July 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers. On the basis of the reasons presented by Mr. Feyzi Bekir, Deputy Minister of Finance and Mrs. Iskra Slavcheva, Director of the Directorate for Double Taxation in the National Assembly, and the discussion held with 14 votes for the Ministry of Finance, without opposition and abstention, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposed to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to adopt the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion of income.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u70	Thank you. Are there any MPs who wish to take part in this bill? I won't. I put to the first vote the Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u71	Thank you, Madam President. On the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I suggest you put the newly accepted Ratification to the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u72	A counteroffer? I won't. I'm voting on the procedural proposal. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We're listening, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u73	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of income tax evasion A single member. It ratifies the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of income tax evasion, signed on 24 April 2015 in Krajova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u74	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote Ratification at second reading. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The proposal is accepted, and with this, the bill at second reading. Next item: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF GURNS FOR THE CHANGE OF INFORMATION ON TAX MATTERS. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u75	At its meeting held on 10 September 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Guernsey on the exchange of information on tax matters submitted by the Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by Mr. Fezi Bekir, Deputy Minister of Finance. The agreement with the government of Gurnsey was signed by correspondent in the period May 2015 and is the first of these agreements for Bulgaria for the exchange of tax information. The signing of such agreements is appropriate with jurisdictions with preferential tax regime. The main objective of the Agreement is the exchange of tax information between the tax administrations of Bulgaria and Guernsey in cases of tax evasion and evasion of taxation. The Agreement lays down the scope of the information provided, the ways, conditions and time limits for its collection and delivery, as well as matters relating to the confidentiality of the information provided. The exchange of information will take place only by request, i.e. by requesting the other administration to collect information on a specific case. Information from the other country will only be sought when the requesting Party has exhausted all available means and mechanisms for collecting information under its domestic legislation. The exchange of information shall include direct taxes and value added tax. At present between Bulgaria and Guernsey there is a signed agreement on taxation of savings income, signed on 17 October 2006, under which only this type of income is exchanged. After presenting and discussing the bill, the following results were voted on:....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee shall propose to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to adopt in the first vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Guernsey on the exchange of information on tax matters, No 502-02-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 August 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u76	Report of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Mr. Stanimirov will introduce us to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u77	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Gurnsey on the exchange of information on tax matters, No 502-02-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 August 2015. This Agreement is the first of this type of agreement for Bulgaria, since in principle the exchange of information in the field of direct taxes is carried out only on the basis of the agreements concluded by Bulgaria to avoid double taxation and within the European Union, on the basis of Directive 2011/16/EU. The signing of agreements of that kind is reasonable and appropriate in particular with offshore jurisdictions, since it does not justify the conclusion of agreements to avoid double taxation due to the existence of preferential tax regimes. For this reason, the conclusion of agreements of that kind with those countries acquires particular importance as a legal instrument for collecting data that is relevant for establishing income and taxes due by persons. The main objective of the Agreement between Bulgaria and Guernsey for the exchange of tax information is cooperation between the tax administrations of the two countries in the cases of tax evasion and circumvention of taxation. As a legal instrument, the Agreement will create a real opportunity for wider cooperation between administrations to collect and disclose information in possession or may be collected by the other tax administration. At present, between Bulgaria and Guernsey there is an Agreement in force on taxation of savings income, signed on 17 October 2006, in accordance with Directive 2003/48/EU, on the basis of which information is exchanged only in respect of a certain type of income (from savings in the form of interest payments). The agreement with Guernsey on the exchange of information on tax matters will provide the two countries with the opportunity to request and, accordingly, an obligation to provide information on specific cases investigated by revenue authorities. The Agreement lays down the scope of the information provided, the possible ways of collecting it, the conditions and time limits for collecting and providing the information sought, the issues of confidentiality of the information provided. The agreement is consistent with the opportunities for exchange of information contained in the current Bulgarian legislation. The exchange of information is intended to take place only by request, i.e. by requesting the other administration to collect information on a specific case. It is clarified that information from the other country can only be sought when the requesting State has exhausted all available means and mechanisms for collecting information under its domestic legislation. Another essential principle is laid down in the Agreement, namely that the requested State will collect according to its capabilities the requested information, whether it itself needs this information for its own tax purposes. It is important that the exchange of information is not limited to direct taxes only, but also includes value added tax. The maximum broad scope of the Agreement is essential. The conditions for the implementation of the exchange of information under the Agreement shall be consistent with the standards of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The Agreement does not introduce European legislation and therefore no reference for compliance with European Union law has been drawn up. The implementation of the Agreement will not result in a direct and/or indirect impact on the state budget. At a regular meeting held on 23 September 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers. After hearing the reasons presented by the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Feizy Bekir, the draft was held a discussion and a vote, which resulted in 13 votes for 85, para. 1, t. 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to adopt the draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Guernsey on the exchange of information on tax matters submitted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u78	Thank you, Mr. Stanimirov. Statements, coworkers? None I am putting to the first vote a bill of ratification to be discussed. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Yordanova, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u79	Thank you, Madam President. I am making a procedural proposal on the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to put the newly voted ratification bill to the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u80	A reverse opinion? I won't. I'm voting on the procedural proposal. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u81	THE LAW OF THE on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Gurnsey on the exchange of information on tax matters A single member. He ratified the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Gurnsey on the exchange of information on tax issues signed on 20 May 2015 in Sofia and 11 June 2015 in St. Peter Port.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u82	We vote, fellow Members. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Coming up next: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT AND COOPERATION BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN UNION AND HIS MEMBER STATES, OF THE ONE COUNTRY, AND THE REPUBLIC OF IRAQ, OF THE OTHER COUNTRY. Opinion of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. We're listening to you, Mr. Tanchev, a summary of the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! "COMMODITY" on a bill for ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part, No 502-02-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 July 2015. At its extraordinary meeting on 23 July 2015, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part, submitted by the Council of Ministers. This Draft Law is proposed to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to ratify by law the above Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its countries, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part. The ratification by the National Assembly of the Agreement will confirm Bulgaria's commitment to establishing a legal framework for the partnership between the European Union and Iraq, thus addressing issues of economic, political and commercial nature. Its term is 10 years old, and after its expiry it is renewable. The agreement was signed in Brussels on 11 May 2012, and Bulgaria signed the signature by our permanent representative to the European Union. Last but not least, the adoption of the Bill is related to the commitments the Republic of Bulgaria has as a member of the European Union. In this regard, it should also be borne in mind that the signing of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishes for the first time a contractual relationship between the European Union and Iraq. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 15 votes for the European Union and 1 vote for the National Assembly abstention to adopt a Draft for ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part, No 502-02-22, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 17 July 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u84	Thank you, Mr. Tanchev. The report from the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee will introduce us to Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u85	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the draft law on ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part, No 502-02-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 July 2015. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting on 16 September 2015 examined and discussed the Draft Law on ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part, No 502-02-22. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Rumen Alexandrov The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Rumen Alexandrov. According to the importer, by signing this EU Partnership Agreement, Iraq is for the first time establishing a contractual relationship between the European Union and Iraq and establishing a legal framework for these relations in all aspects. The Agreement shall be for a 10-year period and shall be renewable automatically unless one of the Parties denounces it. The aim is to create a solid basis for deepening the European Union's relations with Iraq, such as: - provide an appropriate framework for political dialogue between the Parties; - promote trade and investment between the Parties and thereby promote their economic development; - provide a basis for legislative, economic, social, financial and cultural cooperation. By signing the Agreement, the two Parties reaffirm their readiness to interact on key issues of the European Union's foreign policy. Politically, the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement represents an important step in strengthening the European Union's role in the Middle East region. After a vote with results: the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly to adopt, on the one hand, the Draft Law on the ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Iraq, on the other, No 502-02-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 July 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u86	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova, to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u87	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on a bill for ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part, No 502-02-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 July 2015. At its meeting on 2 September 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Mrs. Milena Petrova, Senior diplomatic officer in the Directorate of Close East and Africa and Mrs. Sasha Raycheva, Jr. at the Directorate of International Law and Law of the European Union. The bill was presented by Mrs. Milena Petrova. The draft is proposed by the National Assembly to ratify the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part, signed on 11 May 2012 in Brussels. The agreement aims at strengthening political dialogue on bilateral, regional and global topics, strengthening trade and economic cooperation, as well as supporting the transition and development process of the Republic of Iraq. The Parties to the Agreement reaffirm their readiness to interact on fundamental EU foreign policy issues such as human rights, the rule of law, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the International Criminal Court, migration and a number of other areas. The agreement, the ratification of which is proposed by this Bill, will contribute to strengthening relations between the European Union and Iraq to a level of enhanced partnership and cooperation, including in the political, economic, social and cultural sphere. After the vote was taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 11 votes for abstention, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt at first vote a Draft for ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part, No 502-02-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 July 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. We also have to hear the report from the Foreign Policy Committee, which Mrs. Grozdanova will present to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u89	Madam President, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part, No 502-02-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 July 2015. At an extraordinary meeting held on 28 July 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the above-mentioned Bill. The reasons for the bill were presented by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Valentin Porazov. This Agreement establishes a partnership between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iraq, of the other part. A legal framework for contractual relations shall be established in the field of political dialogue between the Parties and harmonisation of economic relations. The Agreement constitutes the basis for legislative, economic, social, financial and cultural cooperation. The Partnership and Cooperation Agreement is an important step towards strengthening the role of the European Union in the region and in supporting the democratic transition in Iraq. Iraq remains Bulgaria's key trade and economic partner in the Middle East. The Agreement has so far been ratified by 18 countries, including Iraq. The Agreement shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the date of receipt by the depositary of the last notification to the Parties of the completion of the procedures necessary for that purpose. It shall be concluded for a period of 10 years and shall be automatically renewed on an annual basis unless one of the Parties denounces it at least six months before the expiry date of its period of validity. The Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part, is subject to ratification by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 13 votes for the European Union, without abstention and abstention, proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part, No 502-02-22, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 17 July 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Colleagues, are there any speeches on this ratification? I won't. I put to the first vote the bill for ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Iraq, on the other. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Here you go, Mr. Tanchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, on the grounds of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly propose that the Draft Law on ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 17 July 2015, be voted on at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u92	We are voting on this proposal, fellow Members. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. We're listening, Mr. Tanchev, to a second reading report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u93	Thank you. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part A single member. It ratifies the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part, signed on 11 May 2012 in Brussels. FINAL DISCLOSURE It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u94	Statements? I won't. I hereby put to the second vote the name of the Law, article only, its version, the name of the section "Concluding provision" and paragraph one, as reported. Please vote. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The ratification law is adopted at second reading unanimously Coming up next: This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Defense Committee Summary of the report, Mr. Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u95	♪ I can't believe of the Defence Committee At a regular meeting held on 10 September 2015, the Defence Committee discussed on the first vote a Draft for the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) on the implementation of the Project between Bulgaria and the OSCE on the Destruction of Missile Fuel Stocks ( Liquid Missile Fuel Components), Protocol No 1 amending the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) on the Implementation of the Project between Bulgaria and the OSCE on the Destruction of Fuel Stocks ( Liquid Missile Fuel Components) and Protocol No 2 on the Amendment of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) on the Implementation of the Project between Bulgaria and the OSCE on the Destruction of Missile Fuel Stocks ( Liquid Fuel Components), No 502-02-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 July 2015. The meeting was attended by 15 MPs. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Defence Orhan Ismailov. The Memorandum regulates the destruction of unnecessary special rocket fuels and components left in storage in Bulgaria after the removal from arms and destruction of rocket complexes which cannot be used as intended. The process of their release started as early as 2010 with their inclusion in the list of defence products with no need, but the same is delayed for a number of objective reasons. Due to the fact that these fuels and components for them are toxic, aggressive, explosive and fire hazard, they require special storage conditions, compliance with strict safety measures, additional resources of people for storage and security and financial resources that the country does not have. Action shall be taken in 2012 to seek international assistance through the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) in order to destroy them. The Memorandum was approved by the Council of Ministers by Decision No 313 of 19 May 2014. As a result, it was signed on 22 May 2014 by the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Secretary-General of the OSCE. The surplus rocket fuels and components, according to the Memorandum, will be destroyed outside the territory of the country, which is the responsibility of the contractor appointed by the OSCE by means of voluntary means provided by the participating countries. Bulgaria bears the financial costs for this activity, which will amount to about 310 thousand according to a preliminary assessment. BGN provided by the budget of the Ministry of Defence. Our country also assumes obligations of a technical and administrative nature by providing the equipment, materials, facilities, buildings and land necessary for the activity within the framework of its obligations to prepare them for transport to a pre-defined and agreed place where they can be transported to the site of destruction by the performers. This avoids any risks to the environment during the course of their destruction, apart from the risks related to transport to the place of transport, which is the responsibility of Bulgaria. Protocol No 1 to the Memorandum shall be supplemented by Paragraph 4 of Article 4. 7, and it is regulated that OSCE officials who are nationals of the Republic of Bulgaria are exempt from legal procedures in respect of all their actions in the process of carrying out their functions. In § 5 of art. 7 It is envisaged that the Secretary-General of the OSCE may decide to waive the immunity of a person holding a nationality or resident in the Republic of Bulgaria and enjoying immunity under this Memorandum. In this case, the Bulgarian side will be informed about the decision to waive immunity by diplomatic means. The draft Protocol No 1 has been approved by a Protocol Decision under that Protocol. 12 of Protocol 36 of the Council of Ministers meeting of 3 September 2014. and was signed on 30 October of the same year in Vienna, Austria. Following the signing of the Memorandum and Protocol No 1 in the Bulgarian Army, another type of rocket fuel was removed, which also imposed the signing of Protocol No 2. After prior coordination between the two Parties, the Ministry of Defence and the OSCE shall sign Protocol No 2, enabling new quantities and types of fuels and components to be added to them. Protocol No 2 proposes the final determination of the type and quantity of missile fuel subject to destruction to be carried out by means of a receiving transmitter protocol signed in the performance of the actual transmission between representatives authorised by the OSCE, the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the contractor company. The quantities of different types of rocket fuels to be transmitted and destroyed under the Memorandum are also specified.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u96	I said résumé!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u97	The draft is not contrary to the Law on the Administrative Acts of the Republic of Bulgaria and international law. After hearing the reasons and discussing the bill, 14 MPs took part in the vote. The Defence Committee unanimously adopted the decision on support by 14 votes for
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u98	Thank you. The Committee on Legal Affairs Mrs. Alexandrova. Do not read this long title on all reports, only what the Commission has done in its meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u99	♪ I can't believe in the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) on the implementation of a project between Bulgaria and the OSCE on the destruction of rocket fuel reserves (liquid fuel components) At its meeting held on 2 September 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft law on ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) on the implementation of the project. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Orhan Ismailov, Deputy Minister, Mrs. Laura Kendova, Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u100	That's not important.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u101	After the discussion the Committee on Legal Issues with 12 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u102	Thank you. Budget and Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u103	Madam President. The draft was presented by Mrs. Desislava Yosifova, Deputy Minister of Defence. The Memorandum was approved by the Council of Ministers by Decision No 313 of 19 May 2014. Subsequently, at an official ceremony held on 22 May 2014 in Vienna, Austria, the Memorandum was signed by the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Secretary-General of the OSCE. It regulates the destruction of unnecessary special rocket fuels and components remaining as a result of the removal from the weapons of rocket complexes in the warehouses of the Bulgarian Army which cannot be used for their intended purpose. The products are toxic, aggressive, fire- and explosive. Their storage requires special conditions, safety measures and additional resources from funds and personnel. The process of releasing the Bulgarian Army from these surplus rocket fuels was launched in 2010 with their inclusion in the list of defence products with a devoid of necessity. In 2012, actions were taken to seek international assistance through the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe in order to destroy them, as this was not carried out on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for objective reasons. The Ministry of Defence bears the financial costs for this activity, which, according to preliminary assessment, amounted to about 310 000 BGN. These funds will be provided by the Ministry of Defence budget. Under the signed Memorandum, the OSCE undertakes to organise the destruction of these products outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria by means provided on a voluntary basis by the participating countries. After presenting and discussing the bill, the following results were voted on:......................... 12 MPs............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee shall propose to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to adopt the Law on the ratification of the Memorandum in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u104	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. You're suggesting that this bill be adopted. We remain to hear the report of the Foreign Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u105	Madam President, the already mentioned Memorandum regulates the destruction of unnecessary special rocket fuels and components remaining as a result of the removal from the arms of rocket complexes in warehouses of the Bulgarian Army, which cannot be used as intended. These products are toxic and explosive. Their storage requires special conditions, safety measures and additional resources from funds and personnel. Protocol No 1 to the Memorandum regulates that OSCE officials who are citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria are exempt from legal procedures in respect of all their actions in the process of carrying out their functions. It is envisaged that the Secretary-General of the OSCE may decide to waive the immunity of a person holding a nationality or resident in the Republic of Bulgaria and enjoying immunity under this Memorandum. In this case, the Bulgarian side should be informed of the decision to waive immunity by diplomatic means. Protocol No 2 proposes the final determination of the type and quantity of missile fuel subject to destruction to be carried out by means of a reception protocol signed in the performance of the actual transmission between representatives authorised by the OSCE, the Minister of Defence and the executive company. The Memorandum and Protocols shall be subject to ratification by the National Assembly by law on the basis of Art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5, 7 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 17 votes for.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u106	For ratification. Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. It's a very long name. Colleagues, speeches? I won't. I put to the first vote the Law on the ratification of the Memorandum. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The proposal is accepted at first reading. Procedure, Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u107	Madam President, due to the fact that during the discussion no intentions for proposals for amendments or additions to the Bill and on the grounds of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that it be adopted in the framework of this meeting of the second vote, the bill adopted at first vote No 502-02-25. The basis for this gives me the duty of the Defence Commission to propose this Second Voting Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u108	Thank you, Mr. Manushev. We are voting on this proposal, fellow Members. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u109	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe for the Implementation of the Project between Bulgaria and the OSCE for the Destruction of Missile Fuel Stocks ( Liquid Fuel Components), Protocol No 1 amending the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe on the implementation of a project between Bulgaria and the OSCE on the destruction of rocket fuel stocks (liquid fuel components) and Protocol No 2 amending the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe on the implementation of a project between Bulgaria and the OSCE on the destruction of rocket fuel stocks (liquid fuel components) A single member. Rehabilitates the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe on the implementation of a project between Bulgaria and the OSCE on the destruction of missile fuel stocks (liquid rocket fuel components), Protocol No 1 amending the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe on the implementation of a project between Bulgaria and the OSCE on the destruction of rocket fuel stocks (liquid rocket fuel components) and Protocol No 2 on the modification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe on the implementation of a project between Bulgaria and the OSCE on the destruction of fuel reserves (liquid rocket fuel components), signed on 4 June 2015 in Vienna.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u110	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposed Draft at second reading. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The proposal has been adopted unanimously, and thus the Law on the ratification of the Memorandum. Next item and latest ratification, colleagues: LAW FOR THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED AMERICAN STATES ON THE CHANGE OF INFORMATION ON PASSENGERS. An internal security and public order report will present to us Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u111	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on the exchange of passenger information, No 502-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2015. At a regular meeting held on 10 September 2015, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on the exchange of passenger information, No 502-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2015. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Interior: Philip Gounev The reasons for the bill were presented by the Deputy Minister of Interior Philip Gounev. The main objective is to establish a bilateral legal framework for identifying specific persons involved in international travel that may pose a risk to the other Party. In this way, opportunities for prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorism and other serious crimes will be increased. The information on passengers and crew subject to the agreement shall include data obtained from the passenger reservation data (PNR data) and prior information (API data). Data collected may be processed for the purposes of the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorism and other serious crimes. The information exchanged will be processed in accordance with the ratified Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on strengthening cooperation in preventing and combating serious crime, signed in Sofia on 10 October 2012, as well as the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on the exchange of information on targeted surveillance of terrorism, signed in Washington on 19 March 2014. Under the agreement, the US Department of Homeland Security will provide free of charge specialized analytic software for the needs of the National Booking Data Unit. In case the Agreement requires payment of public government claims such as duties, taxes and the like, they will be borne by the Bulgarian side. The Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on the exchange of information on passengers is subject to ratification by the National Assembly by law on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The agreement is aimed at carrying out specific activities by competent institutions and international cooperation related to national security and the fight against terrorism. In support of the bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on the exchange of passenger information signed on 23 March 2015 in Washington, the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Atanas Atanasov spoke. Special attention was paid to increasing the capacity of competent institutions and implementing structural reforms to implement the objectives of combating terrorism and serious crime. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 13 votes....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u112	Thank you, General. Atanasov. The Security Services Control Commission. Here you go, Mr. Petrov. [[The Presidents shall change the sitting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u113	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on the exchange of passenger information, No 502-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2015. At its regular meeting on 10 September 2015, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act examined the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on the exchange of passenger information, No 502-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2015. Mr. Tzipov explained the reasons for the adoption of the bill by stressing that the agreement between the two parties creates a bilateral legal framework for the exchange of information on passengers to facilitate the identification of specific persons involved in international travel and presenting a risk to the other party. He pointed out that this, in turn, will increase opportunities for the prevention, detection and prosecution of terrorism and other serious crimes. They strongly supported the Bill of Members of the National Assembly Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Atanas Atanasov and stressed that its adoption was unnecessary. The discussion included the People's Representative Dimitar Dubov, who asked a question about the characteristics of the data provided and the equivalence of the relations between the two countries. The public representative Atanas Merdjanov also asked a specific question. Mr. Krasimir Tzipov replied to them, who stressed that the treaty does not deviate from other similar contracts between EU Member States and the United States. The ratification law was also supported by the President of SANS Mr. Georgiev with the argument that the Agreement provides a legal framework and tools for effective countering current threats to national security. As a result of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Commission, with 10 votes for the European Parliament, without the opposition and 2 votes for the Council of Ministers, proposes to adopt a Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on the exchange of information on passengers, No 502-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on July 20, 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u114	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Following is a report from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Mr. Christov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u115	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on the exchange of passenger information, No 502-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2015. At its meeting, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 16 September 2015, was discussed a Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on the exchange of passenger information, No 502-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2015. On the part of the importers, the meeting was attended by Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of Interior. The bill was presented by Mr. Krasimir Tsipov. The purpose of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on the exchange of passenger information is to establish a bilateral legal framework for the identification of specific persons involved in international travel that may pose a risk to another country. In this way, opportunities for prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorism and other serious crimes will be increased. The two Parties wish to cooperate in the use of passenger information to facilitate the security of international air travel. Information on passengers subject to the agreement means personal and other information about passengers and crew. This information shall include data obtained from the passenger reservation data or PNR data, as well as the pre-reporting information for the passengers, as well as the API data. PNR data collected can only be processed for the purposes of preventing, detecting, investigating and prosecuting terrorism and other serious crimes. On the basis of the reasons set out by the importers and the debates held, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 10 votes.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u116	Thank you, Mr. Christov. We remain to hear the report from the Committee on Foreign Policy. Mrs. Grozdanova!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u117	Madam President, ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on the exchange of passenger information, No 502-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2015. At a regular meeting held on 2 September 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on the exchange of passenger information signed on 23 March 2015 in Washington. The reasons for the bill were presented by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova. The implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on the exchange of passenger information will contribute to strengthening cooperation in the joint development and adoption of practical measures for the prevention of terrorism and transnational crime. The purpose of the Agreement is to establish a bilateral legal framework for identifying specific persons involved in international travel that may pose a risk to another country. The information exchanged will be processed in accordance with the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on enhancing cooperation in preventing and combating serious crime and the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on the exchange of information on targeted monitoring of terrorism. In case the Agreement requires payment of public government claims such as customs duties, taxes and the like, they are borne by the Bulgarian side. The implementation of the Agreement is also related to the implementation of the Law in the field of the fight against terrorism and serious crime, the protection of personal data, the collection and provision of reservation data and international police cooperation. The Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on the exchange of information on passengers is subject to ratification by the National Assembly by law on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 17 votes for.................................................................................................... has proposed,...............................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u119	Madam President, honourable Members! The National Assembly is on its way with another bill to ratify an Agreement with the Government of the United States of America. Unfortunately, and this Agreement is entirely unilateral. If you have read the text of the Agreement, you will see that Bulgaria takes on only obligations to provide data and to carry out expenses without any reciprocity of obligations by the United States of America. It is about personal data, and I would like to inform the Members of the National Assembly that the European Court of Justice has recently cancelled an agreement on the exchange of personal data, with the main motive of the Luxembourg Court of Justice that American laws do not guarantee sufficient protection of European data. I would therefore call on this Agreement not to be supported by the MPs or if supported, at least from its scope to exclude the data on Bulgarian citizens. Let us provide information about other foreign citizens who are passing through our country, but not put their personal data to use by the United States of America as the Court of Justice itself in Luxembourg has determined that American laws do not guarantee sufficient protection of these data. That is why I am calling on you at this stage not to support this Agreement. Let us complement and revise data on citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria not to be provided, but subsequently to make a new text of the Agreement with which we will cooperate with the Government of the United States of America in relation to the fight against terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u120	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. I'm reminding you of art. The text of the treaty cannot be amended under a bill for ratification of an international treaty. Reservations to a multilateral contract such as this one is not may be made only where they are eligible by the contract itself. Replies to Mr. Georgiev's statement? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the Bulgarian side is late enough with the ratification of this Bill, so it is high time to vote. This one, first. Secondly, it sounds very strange to me that this type of speech... we will not provide anything because there is no reciprocity. That's not true. On the contrary, we will use the vast database of the United States of America to combat terrorism. That's two. Thirdly, each of you in this hall, who has traveled to the United States of America, and I am sure that on the left, there are no people who have not travelled to the United States, knows that in order to obtain a visa, he provides the US government long before buying a ticket all the data they want him to receive such a visa. And I wonder why you even make these speeches to embarrass yourself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u122	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the first vote the Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on the exchange of passenger information. Vote 84 MPs: 76 against 6, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u123	Thank you, Madam President. I am proposing on the grounds of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly in one sitting to do both readings, that is, to put to the vote a proposal for a second reading in this sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u124	I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 79 MPs: 76 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are listening to the second vote report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u125	Thank you, Madam President. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on the exchange of passenger information Art. 1. It ratifies the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on the exchange of passenger information signed on 23 March 2015 in Washington. Art. 2. The Agreement under art. 1 shall not be promulgated in the Official Journal Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u126	Statements? I won't. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 80 MPs: 73, against 4, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we are returning to the previous ratification of the Memorandum with the two protocols. A correct first vote, a correct decision by the National Assembly to vote and at second reading, incorrectly proposed text by the Defence Committee Mr. Manushev has proposed to us a text of the Commission, which has editorial differences with the text of the importer. We're in second reading mode. The text of the ratification by importer has not been reported. Mr. Manushev, report to us this time, do not report to us. [[Laughter, excitement.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u127	I did not propose it, the Commission proposed this text. If he were in the Navy, whoever wrote it would have taken it away, but we're in the National Assembly. I'm kidding. [[Laughter, excitement.]] I'm reading the import text correctly. Two dates have been missed: THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) on the implementation of a project between Bulgaria and the OSCE on the destruction of missile fuel stocks (liquid fuel components), Protocol No 1 on the amendment of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) on the implementation of a project between Bulgaria and the OSCE on the destruction of rocket fuel stocks (liquid rocket fuel components) and Protocol No 2 on the amendment of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) on the implementation of a project between Bulgaria and the OSCE on the destruction of rocket fuel stocks (liquid fuel components) A single member. He established a Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) on the implementation of a project between Bulgaria and the OSCE on the destruction of missile fuel reserves (liquid fuel components), signed on 22 May 2014 in Vienna, Protocol No 1 amending the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) on the implementation of a project between Bulgaria and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) on the implementation of a project between Bulgaria and the OSCE on the destruction of rocket fuel reserves (oil fuel components) signed on 4 June 2015 in Vienna.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-08.u128	There are no speeches. We are voting on the Importer Act at second reading. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. My fellow Members, before I make the communication on parliamentary control, I would like to inform you that the part of our legislative programme for the week has ended with the vote on the current ratifications. According to a general decision of the Conference of Presidents, which was held today during the interruption, additional items will be submitted tomorrow morning when the agenda is formed, so tomorrow at 9.00 we start with a legislative part. There is a draft decision that needs to be voted in urgent order. Then we will continue with the parliamentary control at his usual hour at 11:00 p.m. Parliamentary Control Communication on 9 October 2015, 11:00 p.m., Friday: The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer one question from the MP Miho Mihov and 1 question from the MP Slavi Binev. The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev will answer 1 question from the MP Stanislav Stanilov. The Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer two questions from the MPs Atanas Stoyanov and Ivan Slavov Ivanov. The Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov will answer a question from the MP Stanislav Stanilov. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva will answer a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the HNS delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to four questions written by the MPs Valentin Vassilev, Dimitar Tanev, and Petar Slavov [[two questions]] • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Minister of Health Petar Moskov to two questions with a written answer from the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Petar Hristov Petrov and 3 questions with written answer from the MPs Petar Slavov [[two questions]] , and Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova of a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to two questions from the MPs Ivan Cholakov and Dimitar Delchev; - Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Manol Genov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov and to a question with a written answer from the MP Georgi Turnovalyski; - Minister of Culture Vezhdi Rashidov to a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - Minister of Agriculture and Foods Dessislava Taneva, a question from the National Representative Aidoan Ali and a question with a written answer from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - two questions from the National Representative Petar Slavov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin, and to the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva. Due to prior commitments at the parliamentary control meeting, Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will not participate. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova and the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski will not participate. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova, Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski and Justice Minister Hristo Ivanov will not participate. Tomorrow, a regular meeting with a starting time of 9:00 p.m. This sitting is adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
