ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Before moving on to Parliamentary control, which is scheduled for today, communications: The National Assembly has received material from the National Statistical Institute, containing results of statistical research on the Consumer Price Index for April 2015, gross domestic product for the first quarter of 2015. ..express assessments.. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. New questions concerning the period from 8 May to 14 May 2015: A question has been received by the MP Maya Bozidarova Manolova and Dora Ilieva Yankova to Ivaylo Kalfin.. Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy, on the government's policy for the retirement of the miners. Answers should be made in plenary on 22 May This Decision shall A question was received from the MPs Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov and Iskren Vasilev Veselinov to Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, regarding a serious delay in preparation and potential risks in moving towards full liberalisation of the energy market in Bulgaria. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 22 May 2015. Written answers: - from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Ilian Todorov; - from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the National Representative Miho Mihov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Zhelev; - by the Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov on a request from the National Representative Petar Petrov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Claudia Gancheva; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the National Representative Semir Abu Melih; - by the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Valentin Ivanov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, the People's Representative Valeri Simeonov, Chairman of the Group, has the floor for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On May 17th, on Sunday, 139th anniversary of the execution of one of the worst crimes in Bulgarian history is the Batak massacre in April 1876. It is the brightest example of the centuries of mass destruction of the Bulgarian people living within the borders of the Ottoman Empire. [[Lowered noise from the hall.]] An undisputed historical fact is the five centuries-old Turkish slavery that lasted from the end of the 19th century until the end of the 19th century, and in some Bulgarian territories continues in the 20th century. [[Lowered noise from the hall.]] I read the Declaration on the Batashk massacre and on the mass destruction of the Bulgarian people. I ask you very much to pay attention, at least out of respect for the victims! Thank you. The unfair situation of the Bulgarians during this period is maintained and planted by the Ottoman Empire by means of violent methods, the most common among which are the violent Islamization by killings, threats, blood tax, enicarism, kidnapping of girls and boys, political and economic repression, as well as discrimination by laws guaranteeing the dissolution of the Christian Bulgarian ethnicity against the Turks and Muslims in the empire. The destruction of the Bulgarian nation takes place for five centuries, which, according to the opinion of various scientists, led to more than 5 million. Victims! Thousands of Bulgarians, Orthodox Christians who disobeyed and opposed the enslaver, were killed only because of their ethnic origin and their religion. The Bulgarian victims in the uprising from all over Bulgaria are about 40 thousand, already making actions for their canonization. The most striking example of this destruction is the Batak massacre..................................................................................... The people of the village were killed. This was done by the Turkish Bashibozuk and parts of the regular Turkish army under the direct command of Ahmed Aga. During the Russo-Turkish liberation war against the peaceful population, huge atrocities and crimes were committed again by both the retreating Bashibozu hordes and the regular army, which are described and documented by a number of prominent Western European and Russian correspondents and artists. Between 1903 and 1922 in relation to the peaceful Bulgarian population of Macedonia, Adrianople and Belomore Thrace, a policy of extermination has also been conducted, which caused the mass migrations of nearly a million Bulgarians to the liberated mother Bulgaria. The massacre over the Bulgarians in the summer of 1903 and 1913 is another tragic page of the systematic destruction of the Bulgarian people of the Ottoman Empire. The 1903 Ilinden-Preobrazhen uprising was drowned in blood by the Ottoman authorities, with the peaceful Bulgarian population being subjected to atrocities committed by the regular Turkish army and Bashibozuk. Over 100,000. Bulgarians were killed, while others were forced to leave their homes and all their belongings in Macedonia and Asia Minor, Eastern and Western Thrace in the period 1903 to seek salvation as refugees within the Bulgarian state. These acts of the Ottoman Empire are documented with authentic historical materials and countless witnesses of the victims of Bulgarians and media representatives from around the world. For example, in 1903 the regular Turkish army killed five percent of the peaceful Bulgarian population in the areas of the uprising. There are over 200 villages in Macedonia and Edirne Thrace and about 50 thousand refugees are being rescued on the territory of free Bulgaria. In 1913, on July 2, 1,100 women and children and over 350 men were killed in the village of Bulgarkoy. On July 8th, the entire population of the village of Enice was killed. On June 9 in Adrianople 521 Bulgarians were killed, previously beaten with iron bars and cut with knives. On July 10th, all captured inhabitants of the village of Mustafa Pasha, today Svilengrad, were killed in the slaughterhouse for animals. The teacher Grandpa Varvarov was beheaded along with the mother of the priest Slav, others were scalped and then decapitated. On July 11, all women were dishonored in the village of Osmanli. On 13 September in the village of Devedere 80 men, women and children were tortured, raped and killed and so on. And so on. The list continues with the massacres of more than 5 thousand Bulgarians in Dedeagac, Kyumyurdzhinska, literally slaughtered refugee column of over 12 thousand people, with the eyes of living people being taken out, were thrown half-lived into wells and so on, while the crossing of the Arda River shot and drowned about 2,000 mothers with children. Some 800 people were killed in the Armagan Valley, mainly women and children. Thousands of Bulgarians were killed in Western Thrace. Women, children, old people and 22 Bulgarian villages were burned. This tragedy of the Bulgarian people is a harbinger of the massacre of more than a million and a half Armenians and more than a million Assyrians in 1915, carried out by the authorities of the then Ottoman Empire and to this day denied by the modern Republic of Turkey. These historical facts presuppose the great public importance and sensitivity on the subject of mass extermination to our ancestors. Our responsibility to their memory obliges us to remind Bulgaria and the world of all these misdeeds. In 2008, a worthy municipal council of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted a decision condemning the mass extermination of the Bulgarian people and defined May 17 as a date of worship. A number of municipal councils followed our example. The last few days ago were colleagues from the Municipal Council of the city of Karlovo, who condemned the extermination of the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire and addressed us to the National Assembly, calling for recognition of the genocide against the Bulgarians. On 30 April this year, the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front submitted to the National Assembly a draft Declaration condemning the crimes against the Bulgarian family. My fellow Members, I expect that, when examining the Declaration in the committees and in plenary, we will receive your full support. The point of our proposal is not to seek political dividends, but to worship the victims of a senseless cruelty, to prevent opposition and national unity. And this, honourable Members, is our common political mission and duty to Mother Bulgaria. Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause from PF and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Any other statements from groups? I won't. Moving on to questions scheduled for today PARLIAMENT CONTROL. As you know, the Prime Minister will answer from 11:00 and we are therefore going to the questions to Nikolina Angelkova, Minister of Tourism, who will answer first a question from the National Representative Desislav Chukolov about the expected failure of the summer tourist season. Here you are, Mr. Chukolov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I ask my question, this is the only way to get a reason from the speaker, I would say that it would be nice if this Wednesday, when we from Ataka put this draft decision in ours, for condemning the genocide over the Bulgarians, had you then supported it in plenary. Now let's get to the point. Mrs. Angelkova, as we know as MPs, and you as Minister, Bulgaria relies on tourism. God has given enough to Bulgaria. We have the sea, we have the mountain, we have all the prerequisites to develop a very, very, very successful tourism in Bulgaria. As you know, a small percentage of the citizens of Bulgaria are employed in this sector. Over the years, so much has been done in this direction. This industry has been relieved both financially and budgetally only to develop it and to make it so that in fact foreigners come to Bulgaria, to leave as much money as possible here, in Bulgaria, and to support the budget, to develop the relevant areas where tourism is developing. However, what we have seen in recent months as speaking in public space, what we have all noticed is that it is expected, as I have also written in my question, a failure of the upcoming season. This failure worries, of course, everyone. As you know, not a small part of the citizens in Bulgaria rely only on having more tourists, to have more consumption, respectively the business, as I said, in the respective places to work more. This concern is also evident from the fact that, apart from us and my colleague from Ataka, Meglena Alexandrova, BSP colleague Krasimir Yankov is asking questions again in this direction, in which we are really interested and worried about what will happen during the upcoming tourist season. You are the Minister of Tourism and, of course, we will ask you this question. My question to you is, Madam Minister: all these black predictions that are expected are talking about a drop of 60%, about a drop of even 70%, some speak, I know that you will tell me that you are taking some measures, trying and so on. Bravo, that's how it's supposed to be done, but my question to you is after this failure that's going to happen this summer, are you going to resign? That's my specific question. And at all, can you guarantee there won't be such a failure? [[Single applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u5	Here you are, Madam Minister, to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u6	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chukolov, regarding your specific question regarding the upcoming tourist season and about the citizens of the Russian Federation, I assure you that the Ministry of Tourism is taking all measures within its powers to ensure the vacation stay of all citizens who have preferred our country as a tourist destination, without regard to their nationality. As for the Russian Federation as part of the generating markets for Bulgarian tourism, we have a targeted and consistent policy to create optimal conditions for holiday in our country of Russian tourists. As early as February this year, it was agreed with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to ease the procedures for issuing visas for Russian citizens. The reliefs also apply to Ukraine, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Armenia and Georgia. Short-term visas are issued twice or multiple times for organized tourism, with a period of validity of up to one year to the citizens who used Bulgarian visas in previous years. The owners of real estate are entitled to short-term multiple or multiple visas for a private visit with a period of validity of up to one year and those who have used Bulgarian visas within the last 12 months with a period of validity of up to three years. In addition, meetings were held with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs requesting more staff to be concentrated in our consular services in the territory of the Russian Federation. A readiness has been announced by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that visas will be issued for a period of three days due to the increased interest in the so-called last minute holidays. In connection with the financial support of the extra-emergency seconded personnel, budget transfers from the Ministry of Tourism budget to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget amounted to 331 thousand. lv. in order to support the processing and issue of documents before and during the upcoming summer season. As a result of these integrated efforts in the territory of the Russian Federation, there are already 19 export visa centres and according to information of our consular services the interest is very enhanced and visas are issued within three days. The Ministry of Tourism uses all opportunities to deepen cooperation and increase the tourist traffic between Bulgaria and Russia in order to compensate for a possible decline in our country's attendance as a tourist destination. The adoption of a national representative of the Ministry of Tourism as an associate member for the Association of Russian Tour Operators Our country presented itself very actively within the two largest tourist exhibitions on the Russian market, where we participated with a stand of 200 sq. m and MIT, where we presented ourselves with a stand of over 450 square meters. m. In addition to the activities of Bulgaria's information and advertising campaign on the Russian market, which positions us as a traditional destination with a wide range of perspectives for development of specific products, we also develop cultural and pilgrimage tourism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u7	Thank you. Mr. Chukolov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u8	Madam Minister, I have listened with interest to your answer. What I've heard, what I understand, you're working on it and you're hoping things will work out. That's what I read in your interviews in different media. But you are a minister, you have no right to hope, you have to govern and ensure the industry that the season will be good. How are we going to do that? Yes, you are taking some measures to ease the visa, hoping Russian tourists will come at the last minute. My advice to you is when the next meeting of the Council of Ministers discusses the topic of tourism, contact the Foreign Minister. Tell him, "Stop saying such nonsense about the Russian Federation." Tell the military minister to stop constantly pointing at Russia as an enemy. To the President, I know that you are his frame and person, as they say, say to him: Mr President, stop constantly broadcasting such speech and such messages to the citizens of the Russian Federation! Of course none of them will come on vacation in Bulgaria, knowing that a little further up to the Northern Black Sea coast can have a NATO base, and in general the policy of the Bulgarian leadership in relation to these citizens is perhaps the word is humiliating. That's how you talk to your colleagues from the Council of Ministers and the President. You didn't answer me about your resignation. Please come out, tell me here: do you guarantee this season will be good and will you take responsibility if it isn't? I know for a fact what tourism will continue in Bulgaria by the end of the year, and this is election tourism, but I am asking you about the upcoming summer tourist season.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u9	Thank you. Here you are, Madam Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u10	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chukolov! According to yesterday's survey of the Russian tourist site Travel.ru Bulgaria is in the top 10 Russians for summer vacation in the country. This shows that a season full of challenges awaits us, but all these dramatic paintings that are being drawn for a decline are not confirmed at this time. The Ministry of Tourism, I can guarantee you, has taken absolutely all measures and actions to ensure the conduct and conduct of a good summer season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u11	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Almost the same is the next question from Miglena Alexandrova about the summer tourist season. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, you never answered my colleague Desislav Chukolov: will you resign if what you say does not happen? [[Applause from the "Attacka". Noise and lines by GERB.]] Thanks to the foreign policy led by the Bulgarian government, the President, the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister, this year the summer tourist season is a failure. The tide of Russian tourists is over 60%. According to Rumen Draganov, President of the Institute for Analysis and Assessment of Tourism, we are losing over 160 million. Euros this summer because of expelled tourists from Russia and Ukraine. In this regard, my question to you is: has the Ministry, which you are in charge of, the value of the losses we are about to suffer, and what measures are you planning to take? Will you ask for compensation from the European Union?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u13	Thanks for asking. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u14	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, once again I will point out that we are looking at a challenging season, but the gloomy forecasts and the spectacular declines that were drawn in the previous months are largely disproved by the latest data we receive at the Ministry of Tourism. As I mentioned, according to yesterday's data from the Russian travel portal Travel.ru Bulgaria is among the top 10 Russians for summer vacation. Again, according to Russian press data, there is a process of increasing entries for Bulgaria as a result of the rate-valute stabilization by 30 40% compared to the previous month. We have information from the major Russian tour operators that to date they do not expect a drastic reduction in the search for tourist holidays in Bulgaria. These results, I dare say, were also achieved thanks to the active participation of major exhibitions in Moscow, as well as the activation of activities in relation to the regions of the Russian Federation by the Ministry of Tourism. In line with these efforts, I also take into account the meetings that took place at political level, as well as Bulgaria's admission as a member of the Association of Russian Tour Operators. In this sense, the projected decline and financial losses do not expect to be confirmed, at least not in the indicated digital dimension. Moreover, a specific reference to industry data clearly indicates the presence of over 200 registered organisations and a clear lack of uniform data. The State, in particular, the Ministry of Tourism, has done and done everything in its power to reduce the negative effect of the tide of Russian and Ukrainian tourists, as it deploys a campaign with a compensatory effect, including the participation of international exhibitions with national information stands, journalistic expedition tours, coordinated actions with leading tour operators, numerous domestic meetings and seminars. Moreover, we should not forget that according to data from the National Statistical Institute for 2014 the countries of the European Union have a relative market share in Bulgaria of more than 60% and a total volume of nearly 4.5 million tourists. In this sense, expectations of increased interest from a number of EU countries can not only compensate for the decline, but also lead to some growth. We expect the growth of tourists from Poland by 6.7 per cent; from the Czech Republic 5.6 per cent; from Turkey and Greece around 10%; Belarus around 5 per cent; Serbia around 2 per cent; Macedonia around 3 per cent. We expect an increase in visits from Israel by about 10%. We are forecasting the preservation of the upward trend in the market Austria with a significant growth of 15%. For smaller markets, such as Lithuania, Latvia and Moldova, expectations are for a significant increase of more than 40%; for the France market, a 5% increase, especially after the exhibition of Thracian treasures in the Louvre; Romania and Britain have maintained the same levels, and according to our travel agent in Germany, the tour operators are doing their best to reach and exceed at least 5% growth. The possibility of additional visa facilitations for third countries in which the Russian Federation and Ukraine fall has been examined in parallel. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u15	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Alexandrova, your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, you are here to answer specific questions. You didn't answer my question: is it calculated by the Ministry that you manage, the value of the losses we will suffer first? Secondly, you did not answer my question: will you ask for compensation from the European Union? You didn't answer Chukolov for his resignation. I just don't understand why you're here first. And what size are you talking about? That's ridiculous! Absolutely funny, because you're quoting some Russian sites here, some statistics. Have you spoken to the Bulgarian hotel sector? Do you know what's on the sea right now? Everyone says there is a low tide of more than 60% of Russian tourists and the season is about to fail, there are protests waiting for you. [[Noise and lines.]] What's this even about?! You're reading me some stuff here. Russian sites, statistics. Have you spoken to the Bulgarian hoteliers, the Bulgarian business? The losses they estimate are over 160 million. Euros. But these are direct losses, and indirect losses? There's still so many of them. I absolutely believe that the answers you give are unsatisfactory. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u17	Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u18	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, please do not speculate with uncertain figures for political purposes, because this type of talk does not help the tourist industry at all. Please also, when formulating a parliamentary question on a single source database, monitor the development of these data and declare personal positions in fullness and consistency so that you do not fall into a position to use self-verified quotes. When we talk about a request for compensation in view of future possible and undocumented losses, your choice as a Member of the National Assembly is whether to familiarize yourself with the details of the arrangements within the European Union governing similar cases. With regard to the summer season 2015, the Ministry of Tourism has taken all measures to ensure that the season is normal, taking into account absolutely all the conventions, taking into account absolutely all the data. With regard to the data we have from Russian major tourist sites and Russian tour operators, I think they are fully adequate given that there are two associations in Russia and in Bulgaria are 203 at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u19	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The talk about the summer tourist season continues with a question from Krasimir Yankov about measures to compensate for the expected difficult tourist season. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, my question is in line with those that have been asked so far, but it is specific in terms of measures to compensate for expected difficulties in the tourist season. Madam Minister, it is clear from your statements to the media that there is a difficult and difficult tourist season due to the expected sharp decline of Russian tourists. This will happen in Bulgaria in connection with the aggravated international political environment. The industry expects a summer drop in tourists, especially from destination Russia by about 25-30% compared to the previous year. At the same time, it is clear from talks with experts from the tourism sector that Thomas Cooke, one of the biggest tour operators, is 20% less booking than last year. The other major tour operators are on last year's level or 5 to 7% more than last year. In this regard, my question to you is specific: what measures has been taken and will the Ministry of Tourism take to compensate for the reduced number of tourists from the Russian and German markets? very please do not report misleading information like before in terms of possible growth by tourists from France, because I will tell you that additional tourists from France, if there are, and the expected 5% increase is made, must be linked to charters that are not available. So even if there's nothing to come with, it's misleading information. Thank you. I'm looking forward to a concrete response.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u21	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Iankov, regarding the main market in Germany, according to data from the Bulgarian travel representative in Frankfurt, German tour operators will generally jump by at least 5% from summer season 2014. As far as Thomas Cook is concerned, in order to clear your question, I inform you that I have held several meetings with their representatives, including the Executive Director Mr. Carlstadt Meyer, with the Commercial Director Mr. Andre Müllman and Mr. Alex Verde, the Chief Contract Manager for Bulgaria. The meetings were constructive, with the reduced number of reservations not being discussed. With regard to Russian tourists, the Bulgarian state is doing everything possible to reduce the possible percentage drop. As I have already said, in coordination with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have introduced simplified procedures for issuing visas and have posted additional officers in our consular services, and 19 exported visa centres are operating in the territory of the Russian Federation at the moment. We actively participated in the biggest Moscow exhibitions, and I have held meetings with the President of the Federal Tourism Agency of the Russian Federation Mr. Oleg Sakonov within the framework of the Inturmarket. On the Russian market we are positioned as a traditional preferred destination offering prospects for the development of specific products such as pilgrimage and cultural and historical tourism. The Russian Federation is part of the generating markets for Bulgarian tourism, but only the countries of the European Union, for example, have a relative market share of over 60% and a total volume of nearly 4.5 million tourists, according to NSI data for 2014. In this direction, concentrated measures for Bulgaria's intensive performance with national information stands are taking place not only of the leading but also of the local tourist exhibitions in the targeted compensation markets. An agreement was reached to facilitate the procedure for issuing visas for transit through Slovakia with regard to tourists from Belarus. There are numerous journalistic expedition tours, joint actions with tour operators and organization of domestic meetings and seminars. In this sense, through an active compensation campaign and expected growth of tourists from Poland, Turkey, Greece, France, Serbia, Macedonia, Israel, Austria, Lithuania, Latvia and Moldova, it is realistic to compensate for the decline. In addition, I will share that our country's promotional campaign on the four pan-European televisions is successfully under way:.............................................................................................. We are also preparing an extension of the campaign to promote domestic tourism, promoting the 50 least known tourist sites, except through television and internet advertising, and using free municipal billboards on the territory of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. For a line, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, colleagues! From the talks I had with the industry, I understand that the big German tour operators have made you a proposal for joint shares to compensate for the reductions in the central European market, namely Germany, the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary, Austria, but unfortunately you refused them. It is about shares in which there is additional advertising, presentations of the opportunities offered by the tourism industry. I also understand from the industry that no additional shares have been made except the standard from previous years on the Russian market. Nothing has taken place in neighbouring countries either Romania, Serbia, Macedonia, Greece and Turkey. The opinion of those employed in the industry is that this crisis year our already existing Ministry of Tourism has undertaken nothing different from the previous years as a destination compared to our competitors Turkey, Greece, Spain and Egypt, which made strong shares with the big German tour operators and the relevant Russian tour operators to stimulate sales for their destinations. According to the industry's opinion this year, the exhibitions took place not at the levels at which they were even in previous years. From your answer, I understand you've had a meeting with Europe's largest tour operator, Thomas Cook. You say you didn't talk about the number of tourists expected. What are you guys dating about?! At the same time, you know the problem of those in the sector - the number of tourists; the reduction in different markets. It becomes clear to everyone. You cannot rule! The Ministry of Tourism is structured, so waited by the people who are busy, but you have no capacity. You're repeating what happened in the past years. Nothing new to benefit this sector, which is extremely important for the Bulgarian economy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u25	Time's up!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u27	Thank you. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u28	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, as I explained, the Ministry has taken all the necessary steps and the chicks are counted in autumn. We will clearly see the marked dramatic decline in the winter season, which currently has an increase of 8%. The conversations we are having with the major tour operators and the proposals we are discussing are neither accepted nor denied by the Ministry, because they are about to be clarified in terms of strategic partnership relations, and you know very well that the Public Procurement Act is also needed to be taken into account. The Ministry has undertaken a number of shares that dramatically and dramatically differ from those in previous years. In this regard, he received both a prize for activity and a booth at the Intur-market in Russia, as well as a prize from the exhibition in Turkey, as well as awards and diplomas from all other exhibitions that are exposed. You can see them in the Ministry of Tourism. Any talk and propaganda about an expected dramatic drop in tourism not only is it not useful, of course, for the purpose of political propaganda, but it is extremely damaging to the entire tourism industry. For information, the tourism industry in Bulgaria and the nationally represented tourist associations to date are 203. Unified data from which branch you receive do not know exactly the representative of the industry... [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] On the contrary, the Ministry of Tourism has undertaken absolutely all commitments and organised journalistic expedition tours. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u29	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You're giving an optimistic start to the summer tourist season. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Mr. Hafuzov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u30	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! All of us in this Chamber and the entire Bulgarian people have once again witnessed a dangerous and thoughtless political provocation, which again puts the use of hate language and the possible consequences of it at the centre of the debate. People's representative from the National Assembly's stands, known for his prerogatives of expression, deprived of any artistry, decided to use as an argument an untalented metaphor, which includes sacred religious images and symbols and is about to provoke ethnoreligious antagonistic moods that our country does not need at this very moment of complicated international environment. Colleagues, I beg you, please, let's stop him! In line with Charlie Ebdo's creative practice, political representatives of prominent reformers are also trying to reform inter-religious relations in the country. The word cartoon, which was delivered by Mr. Karadzhov, has a charge that is extremely unacceptable and insulting to those often defined unanimously and with reason as quiet, calm, obedient, humble, hardworking, honorable, loyal and peaceful Muslims living in Bulgaria. The answer of these Muslims will not change and be any different from the one they have given so far, because this is how they were brought up by the Muhammad, whom they dared to compare to Satan. In the spirit of the tradition of Islam and the messages of the Messenger, peace to Him, we will respond with love, humility and kindness. Thus he teaches us by instructing us: You have two qualities that God likes in you, these are mercy and tolerance. If we have to protect the honor and dignity of our Prophet, then our reaction will be to glorify his name, to tell of his dignity and to apply his commands in practice. I call on the Muslims to respond to the insults that have been committed by listening and carrying out the following Hadis: "Feed the hungry, visit the sick, release the prisoners. Forgive him who oppresses you, go to him who is angry with you, do good to him who does evil to you. Say the right thing, even if it's against you. " - That's how we're gonna react, that's how we're gonna respond, that's how we're gonna protect him from depravity. This is also my appeal to the Muslims who felt another insult from Karadzhov, Kasabov, Simeonov and company. Not only the concrete speech of yesterday, but the accumulation of such statements is the cause of great pain and sadness in our society, in our community, but we would not succumb to provocations. If we responsible politicians do not react adequately, fear, resentment and hatred increase. The Reformation Block and the Patriotic Front are obviously not only coalition but ideological supporters, especially in their attitude towards religions. We remember the sacrilegious words of Valeri Simeonov for the whining muesin and Valentin Kasabov for the dervishs, but we did not expect any honorable gesture of repentance and apology. They're for strong men. We waited yesterday, but Mr. Karadzhov did not consider it necessary and did not find the courage to apologize for his insulting words to over a million and a half Bulgarian citizens. All this makes us convinced to claim that the two political forces mentioned are nothing more than both sides of the same coin. This coin was defined not by us but by the Commission against racism and intolerance to the Council of Europe as fascism and ultranationalism. The insults and intrusive hatred that irresponsible politicians often allow themselves to express should not be allowed to become part of legitimate political arguments. Colleagues, let us not admit, let us not hold back, let us resist! If we are, and we are a civilized, cultural and tolerant European country, then let us clearly raise our voice in defence of peaceful cohabitation and public peace. When politicians, academics, journalists, intellectuals, artists and the awake civil society do not respond and give an adequate response to such statements, in a large part of the Muslims in Bulgaria appears the feeling of double bitterness and confusion. They ask themselves, "Why? After all, we were tolerant, so we were intolerant of hatred, so we lived in peaceful cohabitation, and it is our common task to preserve it? Would that turn out to be another disappointing myth? I refer specifically to the people's electors from the system parties, who make public peace and democracy a fundamental value. Extra-systemic parties, colleagues, in parliament are increasing. Do not let the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in the fight against racism, xenophobia and hatred be alone. It is not acceptable to be the only ones who condemn and oppose such phenomena. And let it be known that we are not intent on political gain. I call on us to stand together against the hatred that we can overcome and overcome with mutual knowledge, understanding and respect. Allow me to conclude by quoting from the book of books, from the book of wisdom, in which we read: The One who does not love has not known God because God is love. May peace and love reign, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u31	Moving on... [[People representatives Valeri Simeonov and Grozdan Karadjov want the floor.]] Mr. Simeonov and Mr. Karadjov, on what grounds do you want the floor? [[People representatives Grozdan Karadzhov and Valeri Simeonov want the floor for a personal explanation.]] This is a declaration from a parliamentary group. [[Noise and lines.]] Okay, here's a personal explanation. [[Noise and lines.]] Because they were mentioned by name. Please, really, for personal explanations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Naturally, I will not be misled in such a cheap way to be inflamed here religious hatred, because the word of religious hatred that we have just heard aims only to give a sharp answer, to be involved in a religious conversation at a secular office, as is the National Assembly. Not only have I not offended the Bulgarian Muslims, not only have I not underestimated the prophet, not only have I not underestimated the religion... [[Reply from MP Hussein Hafuzov.]] If you can't listen and lack any tolerance...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u33	Come with me to the Rhodopes tomorrow! On Sunday there will be a mosque opening and explain it to the Muslims. I can't explain it to them...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u34	I will read you the fact as it is. From the shorthand I say the following thing: We are again witnessing the reading of the draft decision of the National Assembly, as the devil reads the gospel or if I have to paraphrase the vocabulary of the colleagues who are most active on this issue, these were the colleagues from the Ataka who spoke before me, perhaps as Muhammad would read the entire Bible. In other words, colleagues, I became to protect the right of the Bulgarian Muslims to respect their religion. With my sentence, which I criticise the xenophobic language, with which sometimes indeed representatives of a particular parliamentary group turn to this religion, I wanted to stress that we must show tolerance. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And if you stand against this statement today, you stand on the side of this parliamentary group and side with xenophobia, on the side of racism!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u35	Time's up. Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Mr. Simeonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll be brief. I don't think there's any particular point in explaining the futility in other people's words to a long and pointless speech, a reheated meal for events that happened months ago and, naturally, reproach and an apology for words for which neither I nor my colleague Kasabov can apologize simply because it is the truth. There's no one here who's blaming me. Lack of masculinity. It's manhood when you say something, you stick to your words, and you've thought it through, and you can protect and argue with them. It's not manly to throw an accusation and walk out of the courtroom. It's also not manly to push women. This guy was hitting our reporters when they were going to interview him at the Ayto Mufti. So much for masculinity. And otherwise the truth is that the DPS is the greatest evil of the new history of Bulgaria, because it is this mafia not party, but a structure hidden behind the political name "laws and freedoms" that carries out the most devastating for our country division of ethnicities. And perhaps the reason for this discontent and these emotions is the fact that since recent research, support for the Patriotic Front in so-called Turkish-speaking regions has increased by about 50%. A little, but steady. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u37	Now I'm going to give Mr. Hafuzov his word... [[Noise and lines on the right.]] No, not because Mr. Simeonov in the personal explanation affected new circumstances and in a spirit of correctness I will give the floor on the occasion of the new circumstances because they exceeded what was in the Declaration. [[Noise and lines in PF.]] And with that, we'll finish the procedure. Here you go. [[Noise and lines on the right.]] Be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Simeonov! Your TV, I suppose, is able to show the footage that I've bumped women, reporters, or any other creatures. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u39	Mr. Hafuzov, don't use insulting words in your speech!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u40	You, as MP, can prove it, show it when and at what time in the Aitosian muftiy I have pushed anyone, even you, not just reporters! Prove it! Show this footage of your TV! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u41	Okay. We're done with personal explanations. [[Heckling]] Also in the manner of conduct? I give the floor to Mr. Ivanov. He was the first to ask in the manner of conduct, and I think we will run out of this declaration procedure, personal explanations and the further course of the meeting to get back to parliamentary control. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I appeal to you as a host, and I would ask you to strictly respect the Rules of Parliament, because here, from this high tribune, you have allowed a tension to be created, which I believe all here who are MPs should not support, at least, become accomplices. I think that the spirit of tolerance, the spirit of those who have played before us at the moment should not be allowed by you as a leader. On several occasions there was a sharp tongue that you missed, and I think if you do not adhere strictly to the Rules, I think you should rest. I appeal to you to adhere strictly to the Rules of Procedure and not allow any more... Here you violated the Rules by giving, without mentioning Mr. Hafuzov, you gave him the right to explain that there were new circumstances. You are a constitutionalist, and I therefore believe that you should adhere strictly to the rules and laws. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u43	Yes, that's what I think I'm doing, Mr. Ivanov. I stick to both the regulations and his spirit. [[Shouting and single applause in PF.]] There may have been sharp words in the various speeches, there were no words that contained offensive qualifications. The moment that line crossed, I made a reminder. With regard to the personal explanation, they had to be given because Mr. Hafuzov's Declaration referred to specific actions of certain MPs, and then one of the personal explanations addressed this topic. I think that we can end this discussion without having to take some time off. We move on to the questions to the Minister of Youth and Sports Mr. Krasen Kralev...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u44	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u45	Your procedure is in the manner of conduct! Mr. Ivanov put the question the way... You want to talk about another sitting or how you want to conduct yourself?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u46	He didn't ask the question I want to ask!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u47	Back to the way you were led?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u48	Yeah, back to the way it was.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u49	Yeah, come on in, but then I'm gonna cut it off if this goes sideways.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u50	No, it doesn't. Mr. President, I am giving you a sharp remark in the manner of conduct, as extremely fascist, racist and sexist accusations have been made by my fellow journalists, Bulgarian journalists, who have been identified as beings! This is unacceptable to happen in the Bulgarian Parliament! Perhaps for these people creatures were slaughtered a million and a half Armenians, perhaps in the same way they defined as beings the clans of our Bulgarian ancestors and ancestors! It is unacceptable in the Bulgarian Parliament for this to happen and you should have reacted immediately by withdrawing the floor! (Applause) From PF.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u51	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. I made a reminder. With regard to this expression, I am now making a remark to Mr. Hafuzov. I don't think the penalty you recommend is appropriate. With this, the procedure we entered is complete. The People's Representative Willy Lilkov has the floor, who will ask his question about failure to comply with the requirement of the Law on Physical Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u52	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Kralev! My question relates to a contradiction that exists between the Law on Physical Education and Sports, on the one hand, and the Rules on its Application. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25, para. 1 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports on Physics Training in Higher Schools is written that the annual choir room for training students and, more precisely, the hours of physical education and sport are 60 hours a year. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36 of the Rules of Application of the Law, however, is written only 60 hours without adding the word "yearly" which enables some rectors' guides to misinterpret the law and determine an annual choir of 15 hours, meaning 60 hours of choir is believed to refer to the entire course of training. I ask you to answer the question, what will you do to change this contradiction in the interests of education in physical education and sport and in the interests of students? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u53	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Honourable Professor. Lilkov, in art. 25, para. 1 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports provides that the activities of physical education and sport in higher schools are in the form of compulsory and optional activities with minimum choir of mandatory activities of 60 hours per year for students who are trained to acquire an educational-qualification degree of Bachelor or Master. With regard to compulsory activities in physical education and sport in art. 36, para. 1 of the Rules implementing the Law on Physical Education and Sports provide that they are included in the curriculum for training in the relevant speciality. There is indeed a gap in the provision of art. 36, para. 1 of the Rules of Application of the Law on Physical Education and Sports and this omission is technical. The lack of the word "yearly" in the text of art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure should not be regarded as a circumstance on the basis of which an incorrect interpretation of the rules of the Law, which is an act of a higher degree, should be allowed. The rules governing the application of the relevant law are the regulations governing and supporting the implementation of the Law. In the event of a contradiction between laws and regulations, there is an advantage to the rule laid down in the act of a higher degree, in the present case, in the Law on Physical Education and Sports. Although the systematic and logical interpretation of the provision leads to the conclusion that the activities are within 60 hours per year, in order to avoid possible ambiguities, the Ministry of Youth and Sports...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u55	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Karadjov, don't stand there with your back or sit down and have a conversation or clear the place. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u56	The Ministry of Youth and Sports, within its competence, has taken action to initiate a change and submit the specific to that provision. The proposal for change has been sent for coordination to all ministries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u57	Thank you. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u58	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Actually, I don't have a line. I only went out to say thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u59	Mr. Minister, would you like a duplicate? No. Thank you, Mr. Kralev, for participating in parliamentary control. We move on to the questions of Minister Bozhidar Lukarski. The first question is from Petar Kanev on the activities of the Intergovernmental Bulgarian-Russian Commission for Economic and Scientific Cooperation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u60	Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I suppose it is clear to all of you that the issue is extremely important given the events surrounding sanctions and Russia, the conflict in Ukraine. Since 2011, we have not had such a Commission. I do not want to blame either the ruling majority or the previous one, since this Commission has been failing for almost five years now. As you can understand, my question is also economic, because Bulgaria needs this meeting.I was with my colleague Chavdar Georgiev in Russia about two weeks ago at a conference of the Roscia Institute. There, with colleagues from the Union of Employers of Russia, with the Chairman of the Economic Commission of the Russian Parliament, the Upper House of the Senate, we commented that it is high time to convene. The matter between us is purely political. We have to make a sign. A sign that we want thawing relations with Russia at this time. I have to tell you that as much as we pretend to be ostriches and not to notice the problem, at the moment seven European countries are preparing such committees - two of them are members of the European Union. I am very concerned that, in light of the recent events of the week, when Merkel went to Moscow, when John Kerry served wreaths in Moscow two days ago, when Greece's right-wing president was on the stand when the Czech President was there, we continue to pretend to be hit and not pay attention that the problem in our economic relations and in their intensity is currently open. Mr. Minister, I appeal to you with one request: ask the people on whom this decision depends, and since I have information that you will be in Moscow next week, please comment with your colleague Minister or Deputy Minister, with whom you will have a meeting, we must have this meeting in the coming months by the end of the year. The issue is as economic as well as political. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u61	Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u62	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kanev, at first I would like to thank you for this question. The Intergovernmental Bulgarian-Russian Commission for Economic and Scientific and Technical Cooperation is an important body that influences the development of relations between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Russian Federation. Although no meeting of the Intergovernmental Bulgarian-Russian Commission has been held since April 2011, there is dialogue between most economic offices of the two countries. Where problems and issues arise, measures shall be taken to address them, including through meetings of working groups. The Ministry of Economy has always called for direct cooperation between the respective departments of the two countries. It is important for both sides to resolve these issues in a quick and effective way, without delaying meetings of the Intergovernmental Commission, all the more so that some of the emerging problems require a timely solution. It can be said that the recommendations of the Protocol at the 2011 Commission meeting, which are of mutual interest, have financial security and are fulfilled in accordance with European requirements, have happened. Bilateral cooperation in the field of energy was discussed during a working meeting between the heads of the energy ministries of the two countries in 2013 and a meeting of energy working groups in 2014. The holding of another 15th meeting of the Intergovernmental Bulgarian-Russian Commission for Economic and Scientific and Technical Cooperation is scheduled for October 2015. In this regard, at the end of this month I will make a working visit to Moscow at the head of a Bulgarian business delegation of over 30 people. I will have the opportunity to meet with the first Deputy Minister of Economic Development of Russia Alexei Lichachev to discuss the issues to be addressed during the forthcoming meeting of the Intergovernmental Commission, as well as the opportunities for further development of bilateral economic cooperation, including in the context of sanctions by the European Union against Russia and the response. A Bulgarian-Russian business forum will be organized for business representatives, during which will be signed a Memorandum of Cooperation between the Bulgarian Industrial Association There will be a visit to the largest International Exhibition of Machine Buildings "Metalo " 2015" as well as to the Ninth International Forum for Waste Management, Environmental Technology and Renewable Energy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u63	Thank you. Mr. Kanev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u64	Mr. Minister, I am pleased with your answer, as I have received an answer, in fact, that October will have such a meeting. You can understand that the issue of the joint committee is a business matter and it concerns our interests. After all, this is not a question of Russophile or Russophobicism. This is the work of the interests of Bulgaria, of Bulgarian philosophy. To tell you the truth, in the last year, a year and a half, I feel like the big Zadocan brother and Europe are sitting at the same table and the brother across the ocean is ordering lunch and Europe is paying for it. Not to end up, after all this storm over the past few months, that, as always, small Bulgaria, and all of us, will pay for something that we didn't order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u65	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u66	I use the right of the duplicate only to add and invite all MPs from both the opposition and the ruling majority, Mr. Kanev, Mrs. Saveklieva, to join the business delegation which I will lead in Moscow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u67	Thank you. We move on to Ivan Ivanov's question about the analysis of privatisation processes in Bulgaria and taking concrete actions to protect national interests. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u68	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is about analyzing the privatisation processes in Bulgaria and taking concrete actions to protect national interests. The privatisation process in Bulgaria began in 1992 with the adoption of a Law on the transformation and privatisation of state and municipal enterprises. In the period of its action, the privatisation of state assets is carried out by both the Privatization Agency and for larger transactions by the different ministries. In 2002, the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control was adopted, according to which the entire activity of the state assets was concentrated only in the Privatization Agency and the post-privatization control activities in the Post-Privatization Control Agency. In this period, about ten thousand enterprises from the Bulgarian industry were privatized. A large part of them after the privatisation were liquidated and cut for scrap, unfortunately, which largely damaged the country's economy, but, above all, the Bulgarian citizens, depriving them of the possibility of providing employment and income. And here is the place to give a specific example from my constituency Vidin. It is about the privatisation of the largest industrial enterprise in Vidin District. The company was privatized in 2002 for the amount of 1 dollar against repayment of debts and future investment commitments. From my privatisation until now, I have no information about the start of mass and year-round production of tyres, and on the signals of citizens in................................. there are mass cuts. All this raises serious concerns about the future of Vidahim and raises the question of how and how the interest for Vidins is protected. My question to you is: is there an analysis of privatization processes in our country, and what action would the state take to protect its interests in cases of obvious, I stress, unsuccessful privatisation transactions that have led to the destruction of an undertaking? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Minister Lukarsky, you have three minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u70	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, specifically on the issue of the analysis of privatization procedures in Bulgaria. As you know, the Supervisory Board of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency annually prepares and presents to the National Assembly six-month and annual reports on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process. The reports shall contain analytical information and shall be available to the Members of the National Assembly. The Agency's 2014 activity report was adopted by Decision of the Supervisory Board by Protocol No 5 of 19 March 2015 and submitted to the National Assembly on 25 March 2015. The State interest in privatisation protects, on the one hand, the completion of privatisation contracts by making the relevant commitments by the buyer and charging penalties in their default and, on the other, that it is after privatisation control. In carrying out its functions, the Agency shall carry out ongoing documentary and on-the-spot checks at the privatized sites on the implementation of obligations entered into in the privatisation contracts within the time limits laid down in the contracts. In cases of non-compliance found, the Agency shall charge the penalties provided for in the contract and shall act on the submission and Their reunion. In particular, it should be borne in mind that the company was in open insolvency proceedings in 2002. According to the privatisation contract, the purpose of the acquisition of the shares subject to the sale contract is to realise investment and commercial activity. I stress that the contract does not provide for an obligation for the buyer to keep the company's main business. According to the provisions of the privatisation contract, the buyer undertook to make investments of 13,1 million. lv. for a period of five years until 30 June 2007. After the privatisation control was carried out and found that the investment programme was implemented early in 2004. Other commitments of the buyer for a period of five years were to ensure that certain employment was maintained, not to allow liquidation and reduction of its participation below 70% and not to sell or transfer the shares. In addition, liabilities to the state reserve had to be settled within 75 days and settled by agreement within four months with the other creditors. No management transactions were allowed and the company's activities were obliged to comply with the Bulgarian environmental legislation. On the basis of the post-privatization controls carried out, there was no failure to comply with all the above-mentioned commitments. Since 2006, the state has not been involved in the capital of Vidahim-AD, which has since been a public limited company. In view of the particular problems posed for redundancies of workers and employees at the moment, the Ministry of Economy and the Privatisation Agency could not interfere with the company's operational work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u71	Thank you, Minister Lukarski. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, fellow MPs! Privatization is one of many examples that can be given in a negative direction for an apparently unsuccessful model of privatization. And the events of a month and a half ago that took place there are examples that prove this. This issue may be a little late, especially since about two weeks ago Paragraph 8 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act was repealed. Here I would like to share the opinion that we need to find the right path to ensure the interests of the state. Once again, in unsuccessful privatisation transactions that have damaged the state, which have damaged the economy, because all these businesses could work and provide employment to people. So it should be thought of as an addition to the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act, which regulates precisely the transactions that are unsuccessful and protect the national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u73	Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u74	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, only for § 8 and for the need to ensure the protection of the state, I agree, but I will allow myself to disagree with you on the particular deal for If it hadn't been for the privatization of Vidahim, as it became clear from my exhibition, the company would have been liquidated in 2002 and there wouldn't have been a Vidahim. Thirteen years after that, what happens is no longer in the control of the state, but the fact that all commitments made by those who privatized the company are fulfilled and 13 years after that the company still exists and still carries out employment in the territory of the city. Vidin. There is no privatization deal that would provide an undertaking that was about to be liquidated, which was in a difficult situation....................of everlasting life anywhere in the world..................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u75	Thank you, Minister Lukarski. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Volen Nikolov Siderov on the benefits and damages for Bulgaria from the sanctions imposed by the European Union and the counter-sanctions by the Russian Federation. Welcome to the stand, Mr. Siderov, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u76	Thank you. Mr. Minister, my question is related to the so-called "sanctions" that actually ended trade relations between the European Union and the Russian Federation. Bulgaria is a member of the European Union and so far there is no evidence that it has opposed these sanctions. That is, we are suffering, as are all European countries, damage. Here the question is formulated for benefits, I would even edit it in step, benefits I do not see from sanctions. But my question is a specific question: have you calculated so far in material value, in numbers what are the damage to these sanctions, which we respect absolutely unconditionally, uncritically, without even asking the question in Brussels? This, in recognition of the Prime Minister, that we have never raised the issue of putting an end to these sanctions there. What's the damage? How many so far? Is that calculated, if you can tell me. I've got some data that's been leaked in the media so far. For example, the chairman of the Association of Hoteliers and Restaurants Mr. Ragin said that at least 500 million euros will be lost only to tourism. In his words, tourism in Bulgaria makes about 14% of gross domestic product. Whether you agree or not, I don't know! But my request is that you tell us how much we lose from these sanctions so that every Bulgarian citizen can make the bill what is the material value of these political games, geopolitical games, in which we participate absolutely uncritically and in my opinion, absolutely against our national interests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u77	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. Minister Lukarski, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Siderov! The assessment of the state of trade with the Russian Federation should be considered both in terms of the effect of the sanctions introduced by the European Union and the response measures applied by Russia on imports of certain agricultural and food goods and in terms of the development of Bulgaria's external trade in 2014. Preliminary data from the National Statistical Institute for 2014 show that Bulgaria's exports, including to the European Union and third countries, decreased by 0.7% and imports increased by 1.2%. While exports of the countries of the European Union registered growth in 2014, there was a decline in Bulgaria's exports to third countries of 6.6% and imports of 3.2%, due to the trend of retention of total exports in 2014. In 2014, under sanctions from the European Union to Russia, which the Republic of Bulgaria strictly adheres to and the implementation of the Russian response measures, exports decreased by 8.8% and reached 707.6 million. U.S. dollar. Imports from Russia decreased by 16.1% and reached 5.3 billion. US dollar, as a result of which bilateral trade declined by 15.3%. The significant decrease in imports led to an improvement in the trade balance, however, and it remained negative for Bulgaria, but shrinked by 17.1%, reaching 4.6 billion. U.S. dollar. In view of the export data of leading 80 groups of goods to Russia in 2014, which accounted for 91% of the Bulgarian exports over 643 million. US dollar, an increase in exports of these items to Russia by 1.8% has been found. The exports of the leading two groups of goods to Russia, both for goods and for car parts, with shares of 33.4% and 5.5% respectively, or about 39% in total of our exports, are an increase of 6.6% and 1,3% respectively. The other groups of goods have less than 3.5%. As a result of the introduction of a European Union authorisation for goods which can be used in deposits and oil mining technologies, goods worth 275 thousand were exported to Russia in the period August 2014 to Russia. State. $609,000. State. USD less compared to the similar period for 2013. This reduction in itself is small. Our bilateral trade with Russia has a stronger and more direct impact on the Russian response measures introduced on 7 August 2014, which prohibit imports from the European Union of certain foods from fresh fruit and vegetables, meat and dairy products. Exports of agricultural and food products in 2014 decreased by 4,4% and amounted to 67,8 million. State. the dollar, having a relative share of Russia's exports of 9.6%.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u79	Please navigate towards completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u80	Because they're exact numbers, I want to say them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u81	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u82	According to data from the Bulgarian statistics, exports of goods to Russia falling within the established restrictive list for 2013 amounted to 13.4 million. State. The dollar. In 2014, exports of the same goods amounted to around 9,8 million. State. $4.6 million or $4.6 million. State. EUR less than 2013 For the period after the introduction of the restriction on imports from Russia, i.e. the August period, December 2014, exports of agricultural goods and foodstuffs from groups which, for the most part, are subject to the prohibition list, decreased by 2 million. 615.2 thousand. U.S. dollar less than the previous year. According to BNB data in 2014 foreign direct investments from Russia amounted to 137 million. EUR, which is 107,6 million. € 164.5% more than made in 2013. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u83	And I'd like to thank you. Maybe your doppelganger will be a little short at the expense of that answer. Here's a line for you, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u84	Dear Minister, you have read a very long list of data, but you have not made a summary. Nothing, I'll take the transcript and try to make a summary of what you said so that we can provide the public with some generalized data. After all, people want to know in general how much Bulgaria lost from this insane geopolitical game of the US against Russia? One billion, two billion, three billion, five or ten. This is necessary in order for us as politicians to be able to account for it by saying, as politicians, I mean, we are in opposition and against these sanctions, but in some way, if this can affect you and when you stand there, in Brussels, with your colleagues from other EU countries, to say clearly: "See what, our losses are so and so, we cannot afford them to continue. So we stop the sanctions and start selling and buying with Russia, because this was our main market and it could be even bigger than it has been so far. This is really the responsible attitude of a Bulgarian prime minister or of a minister of economy when he stands in Brussels, not photos for memory with this or another head of state. Photos don't feed, they just fill the front pages of the newspapers, but they don't fill the refrigerators. So, Mr. Minister, who left now, my advice to you is to acknowledge clearly what the damage is, because of your confused talmudic response, pretty much, you almost said that we're directly profiting from these sanctions, we're even better off. If a person listens to you, as you put it in your style, he will almost get the impression that Bulgaria benefits from the sanctions. Stop fooling people! We have a statement from you here: "Lukarski: We lose from the Russian sanctions, but we defend values." What values are you protecting? I let people who watch and listen to us judge the values of gay marriages for themselves. Thank you. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u85	Mr. Minister, you don't want the back. As I see that a break is coming before I announce it, I would like to inform you that from 11:00 p.m. we continue with a question and a question to the Prime Minister of the Republic Mr. Boyko Borisov. I'm announcing a 30-minute break by 11:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u86	Honourable Members, we are continuing with Parliamentary control. Good afternoon, Prime Minister. The first question is from the MP Maya Bozhidarova Manolova on the policy of the government, stated in the Programme Declaration and the Management Program for Implementation of Reforms in Key Social Systems. Here you are, dear Mrs. Manolova, to develop your question. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u87	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister! You started your second term with the enthusiasm that you have formed a government and the ambition to make reforms, you even called the government a reformator, you wrote a Management Program with more than 120 priorities. Today, seven months later, the only thing left was the enthusiasm that you made a government because the reforms are gone. They are nothing but idle talk of the ministers from the television screens, and where there is any action, they are rather mischief to the Bulgarian citizens. I propose that we make a brief review of the reformation of the reformist ministers in sectors. Naturally, we will start with the valedictorian in speaking, the person who surpassed even you in speaking and rating the Minister of Health. Thanks to his new methodology for the distribution of hospital money for only a month he left patients without medication, the cancer patients without treatment, and the mothers sent to give birth at the beginning of next month. Hospitals pile up debts, patients pile up anger as they go from hospital to hospital looking for which one is at an unlimited limit. As a result of his spectacular reformist intention to merge hospitals and to close oncodispansers, doctors, patients and mayors protested side by side, including those from GERB, as protests were already held in Shumen, in Plovdiv, in Blagoevgrad, and yesterday in front of the Party House. You probably saw them from your window at the Council of Ministers. [[Reply from GERB. Laughter, excitement.]] Do not miss: due to the lack of vaccines in Bulgaria are currently stopped the re-inoculation of babies, in which we compete with the third world countries and probably will soon seek help from the World Health Organization. Reformer Kalfin and reform of the pension system. With his grand reformist idea of increasing retirement age, he managed to drive both miners and military and policemen, who soon inform you, are preparing for protest. They'll probably be visiting your cabinet as well. Reformer Tanev "The Minister, who is known for crossing out Napoleon and Lomonosov at the same time, and that he intends to send government money to private schools. He has recently embarked on a reform of the VUMs, as a result of which he will reform the students that they will go to Europe, given the increase in fees, because in the European VUMs the training is free. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u88	Mrs. Manolova, the three minutes are up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u89	I'm done. I can't help but say one word about the reform that you are personally involved in. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Until now, the justice minister has managed to reform only himself and, more precisely, his attitude towards you. From what we have seen on paper, a simple revision of the Constitution is being prepared, which plans to replace one obedient Supreme Judicial Council with another. So my question is... [[Strong noise and shouts: "Eeeee!" by GERB.]] If your ministers continue in this spirit and the reforms continue not to happen, as it is your responsibility and the empty transfusion is at your expense, what will you do?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u90	Thank you, dear Mrs. Manolova. Dear Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Manolova! It is not so scary that a little time has been skipped, it is important to ask the questions and give the answers accordingly. I'm going to go first on the subject of health care. Reforms are aimed at: improving quality and access to health care; optimizing outpatient assistance; developing an effective quality control system; technological development and innovation; developing e-health; restructuring of emergency care; introducing a National Health Card; transforming the National Health Insurance Fund into an active financing and control body; ensuring a transparent procedure for buying medicinal products; increasing the collection of health contributions; preserving and developing the personnel potential of the health system. In order to stabilise the health system, the government has developed the concept of developing the emergency system and the concept of eHealth. The concept of restructuring the hospital care system was further developed and supplemented. Amendments to the Health Insurance Act and the Medicinal Products Act were approved. The negotiations with the European Commission on the development of Priority Axis 4 of the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" are finalized. The programme will provide 163 million. lv. for the modernisation of the emergency system. We adopted the concept "Health goals 2020" in which Bulgaria's long-term priorities in the field of health policy are set. On this basis, the National Health Strategy 2014-2020 is also to be updated. I hope, although some have accepted that I have given a deadline, this is not the case, but from what, at 8:00 a.m., Minister Moskov and I have done as a meeting, within ten days we will already have everything that I am telling you about. In the pension area, the finalisation of pension reform is a major priority, including the search for opportunities for further growth of pensions. We had a meeting this morning with the unions and the employers. For Wednesday morning there was another meeting with the toughest categorical workers. I hope after that in the Granite Hall at 10.00, I truly hope that at least what I have heard today trade unions, employers and government will come out with a common pension reform that will come to you in Parliament, and I hope it will be supported. In the field of the labour market in 2015, a new approach is applied to unemployed persons: individual information and consultation on the setting up of a job priority in the private sector; a new Programme for long-term unemployed persons for training and subsequent employment in the private sector is being implemented; the employability of unemployed persons is increasing priority in disadvantaged groups, currently around 8 500 unemployed are being trained and 40% of graduates will be involved in employment. In the field of family assistance, social services and social inclusion. Proposals for amendment and supplement of the Family Aid Act for children have been submitted to the National Assembly by setting the following objectives: promotion of responsible parenting; introduction of higher aid intensity for a third child; greater social justice in providing family assistance; changes in the Social Assistance Act are also being prepared; and work is also being started on establishing the Social Services Act, which will be ready in 2016. The preparations for the Action Plan for the implementation of the Strategy for Poverty Reduction and the Promotion of Social Inclusion 2020 have been launched. Reforms are forthcoming for deinstitutionalization of care for children and people with disabilities. From your government during my esteemed Mr. Stanishev, Chairman of the Party of European Socialists, former Chairman of the BSP, I expressed my condolences yesterday for his mother's death, we took Mr. Kalfin as Deputy Prime Minister, as a continuity leading by your ministers in the previous government. In the area of security: strengthening the capacity of police authorities; building video surveillance systems to prevent conventional crime with emphasis on small and medium-sized municipalities. Such a system was piloted in the municipality of Cherven Bryag. An Agreement was signed on video surveillance systems in Sofia. A project for such a system was developed in Plovdiv as well. In this area, however, our most important priority is the fight against smuggling. This is why an Interdepartmental Coordination Centre was established, comprising officers of the Directorate of the Organized Crime Fight, National Police and the Border Police Department, the State Agency of National Security and the Customs Agency, the National Revenue Agency and the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration. To deal with the migration pressure we are already ready to build the new facility along the Bulgarian-Turkish border with a length of 132 km. In the state administration in 2015, the government will focus its efforts on creating a sustainable regulatory framework with priority implementation of an assessment of the impact of the regulations; it will strengthen control of the enforcement of the laws and limit the environment for illegal and corrupt practices. A limitation of the number of regulatory regimes is envisaged. The change in the structure, functions and composition of public administration aims to optimize revenue and provide services more effectively. Our efforts will be aimed at consolidating the common administration and standardising its structure. In order to improve the process of providing services, uniform centers for complex administrative services will be established. The introduction of a centralised first stage of a competition for employment in the state administration, as well as the development of internship programs. In the judiciary: I suppose the MPs are well aware of the updated Strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary, which the parliament adopted with a constitutional majority and is part of the government's program for sustainable development of Bulgaria. Consultations on amendments to the Constitution continue. I expect the draft amendments to the Constitution to be submitted to the National Assembly at the beginning of next week. Immediately thereafter, the Ministry of Justice will also publish amendments to the Law on the Judiciary, which will take into account the submitted constitutional projects. There we held a number of meetings with prosecutors and judges, presented it publicly and I truly hope that in Parliament you will correct if there are gaps. In any case, the public expects this judicial reform and we are called upon to do it. In education: the government directs its efforts to develop the early warning system for the risk of dropout of students. There is also a change in the model of funding of higher schools. We will also bring policies and governance into line with the leading practices of European countries, as well as the instrument of the Horizon 2020 programme. Dear Mrs. Manolova, we are aware that successful reforms require a long-term commitment and a broad political consensus. I sincerely hope that you, as an opposition, will also be part of this effort. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u92	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mrs. Manolova, come in for two supplementary questions in total in two minutes. I ask you to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u93	I'll try. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u94	I'll help you if you don't.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u95	Don't. [[Radio.]] Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Prime Minister, I am understanding and I am aware that you have difficulty explaining the inexplicable, namely, things that do not happen and are not done by your ministers. I will only allow myself to point out that the health minister has already been tainted not only by your mayors who openly protested on the street against his reforms, but yesterday he was tainted by the sane members of your parliamentary group who did not accept his extravagant ideas in the Health Insurance Act. And for the categorical workers, we also meet with them. The situation is really serious, and I expect them to appear under your windows soon. So be careful with the pension reform. But let's not deal with sectoral policies. I think it will be easier for you to tell me what your understanding of reform really is, because if we are based on the statement you gave on May 10th, namely that the biggest reform in Bulgaria is infrastructure and construction, we are under the impression that you believe that the construction of highways and roads is the only important reform. Excuse me, but this would mean that in the 21st century the construction of highways and roads is a special acquisition, and in my opinion it is an elementary necessity for citizens; it would mean that the presence of electricity is a great technological leap, and the presence of water in pipes and in taps is an increase in living standards.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u96	Mrs. Manolova, I'm asking for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u97	Or if I could rephrase... Yes, this is my only supplementary question.... what is your personal understanding of reforms? Because if we follow this logic of reasoning, we will remember a slogan that I suppose you and I both remember well, which sounded like this: [[Elevator bell dings]] ..plus Soviet power is equal to communism.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u98	Two minutes. The two minutes are up, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u99	Now the paraphrase of your statement sounds like this: Asphaltation plus Boykova power is equal to reforms. So in your answer, please explain what your understanding of reforms is and whether asphalting is the only important and essential reform that you have drawn as a horizon in front of this cabinet. Because then it would mean: you paved the first term, you paved the second term...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u101	When will you finish the asphalt reform? [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u102	Prime Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u103	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Manolova, it is difficult to argue with you, and it is not necessary. Indeed, you find things that I have wondered about. And I have wondered many times how in the 21st century Kardzhaliysko there is no water in the taps and now we have to pay in the crisis to be able to make plumbing there. And I have wondered how so many decades I found a country in which there was no one from one end of Bulgaria at least one highway built. And I've wondered when now it's over 700 million. lv. We make the railways so that they can move high-speed trains. I've wondered a lot about even one Sofia that only 25 " 26%" had sewerage in the capital. I really wonder how the waste water in the cities is possible, we talk about the Bulgarian district cities, have poured so many decades into the rivers and polluting the environment. Unfortunately, we weren't just behind. We've been on the side a little bit. Now all this has to be done. What capital in Europe didn't have a subway? Maybe there isn't one in Tirana. Maybe there isn't one in Skopje in Sofia. Now what do we have and how do Bulgarian citizens benefit from it? Therefore, when I have spoken in this kind of reform, this.. in fact, you are absolutely.... rights are mandatory things. But the fact is, they're doing in the 21st century, now. What would I add? You tell her about the electricity and the water in the tap. If we do not reform the energy sector, and the electricity will become something we will enjoy just now. As far as healthcare is concerned, I think there are new parties in this room. We shouldn't have any claim to them. But in the system, in the main parties, which, long before GERB appeared, were in this hall, no one can boast and say: "Here I did something that was reported to be good. That is why yesterday at the parliamentary blitz control I asked for more patience and more understanding. At least in subjects where no particular results have been achieved. It is not logical to make laws for special services in 2015. It doesn't make sense. There will come a day like this and you will be in my place, I will ask you the same questions: why in the 21st century, why are we only now making special services laws? How did you work without laws? Is it normal in the field of defense, as we talk, 25 years of flying old planes, and billions of dollars have been spent, and now we have to buy airplanes? What else was it? In education. Everyone has claims for a minister, but it is undeniable that especially in secondary school, especially in this so-called "dual education"... At the moment, to take one Plovdiv, three plants are being made, the fourth one is being done, we will need three thousand workers and our real problem is that although we have unemployment, there are no workers, there are no trained specialists in the field of high-quality specialists to work there. [[The President indicates that the speaking time has expired.]] Thank you. In a word, we are making a huge attempt in parallel to the infrastructure, which is most visible and remains for the people, to improve other sectors as well. Of course, I have always said that we owe this to the understanding and to all of you the parliamentary parties that are in parliament because there would be no parliament and this would not have been done. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u104	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mrs. Manolova, you have a say in the Prime Minister's response.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u105	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Prime Minister, I'm sorry, but you're speaking as if yesterday you arrived from Brussels or from Bankya, as you prefer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u106	It's the same thing. [[Happy tidings.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u107	You have managed for four years and today to say that the reform is the supply of water, electricity and fill the holes on the roads is more than incorrect.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u108	Somebody's got to do it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u109	Since my question, Mrs. Karayancheva, is about reforms, we come to the point of the fact that because of the irresponsible and promiscuous use of the word "reform" by the ruling quadruple coalition, it has finally come to the point that this word is empty of content at all, it no longer makes any sense! As you call asphalting the reform, so your ministers call the signing of each routine order the reform! And since we started with health care, I just want to tell you what they mean in health care under the emergency care reform. Quoting: First level of emergency assistance reform, we are buying ambulances. The second level of the reform is being repaired. Third level of the reform we buy equipment. Ridiculous! But even more ridiculous is what happens in practice. And I'm setting an example of healthcare in Sarnitza. First level of the reform, we promise an ambulance if we win the election. Second level of the reform we take an ambulance from another place. The third level of the reform is not giving the ambulance because we have lost the elections. It follows that there will be only reforms and only for those who vote for GERB or for the Reformation bloc, whatever the promise of reform means.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u110	Thank you, dear Mrs. Manolova. The next question is from the MP Volen Nikolov Siderov for the position of the Republic of Bulgaria on sanctions imposed by the European Union against the Russian Federation. Mr. Siderov, you have the floor for your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question relates to a subject which we have repeatedly spoken about, both myself and my colleagues, and you, Mr. Prime Minister. I even remember that in one Friday's control, in a fit of Friday's revelation you said that in Brussels, when it comes to sanctions, everyone raises their hand. My question is: can we change anything in this regard? I know that's where everyone raises their hand. I know that in Brussels, when you say something, all prime ministers accept it without reservation. The question is: can we change that? We are all aware that the sanctions that the European Union imposed on Russia, and Russia has responded reciprocally, are causing great damage to European countries. These sanctions were the result of the geopolitical pressure of the United States. Here I will not open the clamp and repeat for whom time that this game of the United States is anti-Russian is not as anti-Russian as anti-European. European countries are losing much more than Russia will lose, but we will see this in the future. The question is about Bulgaria. Since we are part of the European Union, we have agreed to these sanctions. In the first part of Friday's control, I also asked the Minister of Economy how much we lost. You, Prime Minister, are known as a man of practical thinking. Even sometimes you make very specific statements about expenditure that should not be made. I mean, you're a man who, as they say, measures every penny. From today's speech of Mr. Minister of Economy we could not understand exactly how much Bulgaria lost, but according to some data it is billions a year. Whether it's half a billion more or less, that's what we're going to figure out. The point is, we're losing. Can we correct that? Can we make Bulgaria say in Brussels: "Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen ministers and prime ministers [[right-block line: "Search! "]] We are losing a great deal of these sanctions. We will no longer abide by them. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] If you want, you can follow us, but this stupid game of Washington will no longer be played. Is it possible that, Prime Minister, this way you can personally reverse the course of the European Union? That's not impossible. [[(Reply from the right block:]] There is one concept that politics is an art of opportunity. In this case, we believe that this can be done - Bulgaria can make a move that will force other prime ministers to follow it. We know well that the Chancellor of Germany is also not very impressed with the need to impose sanctions and to lose billions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u112	You're almost a minute behind schedule.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u113	What is the opportunity for Bulgaria to come out of this regime of sanctions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u114	Thank you, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u115	Time is a relative concept.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u116	Prime Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u117	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Siderov, really sanctions are a last resort. And when I set an example, I remember Friday's control as today, I said that all those who publicly explained both our neighbours and others that they were against sanctions, where they were supposed to vote against...... did not vote against............................................................................... That's what I remember saying. This does not mean that in the European Council, each of us has not spoken and has not expressed our opinion We have supported sanctions as a loyal member of the Euro-Atlantic community. At the same time, we have very precisely and clearly said that in the field of tourism, in the light industry, especially agricultural products, we are suffering great losses from counter-stations. How to calculate direct, circumstantial, whether it is 5 or 500 million, in this case it is not important. It is important that, indeed, both Bulgaria and the European Union, and Russia are losing a lot of this policy, which you are currently calling geopolitical, and that is exactly what it is. You see the Minsk agreements, the bilateral relations, not only the Chancellor of Germany, and President Holland, and many others are trying to normalize relations, but everything goes through the resolution of the Ukrainian crisis. I really hope that this will end within 2015 in order to eliminate sanctions on Russia and, therefore, these counter-sanctions. I can't hide what I've always said, what I think now is worse than the Cold War. At the time, it was clear that there is a Warsaw treaty, there is NATO, there is a SIV, there is a European Union. Now, because the rules are not so clear, we are all moving from our collective membership to whether in NATO or in the European Union or in another pact. I have repeatedly expressed my opinion that the two or three countries need to be agreed on the issue of Ukraine so that sanctions can be dropped. There is no one who can claim that when there are sanctions and counter-scans, it is beneficial for economies or for peoples, or, if you will, for politics itself. In confirmation of what I say: the Minister of Economy next week will be at a business forum there, the Minister of Energy, the Minister of Agriculture and Food, the Finance Minister at various forums there. We maintain the highest possible level of participation there, precisely to show that we do not agree with the policy for Ukraine, you know, we have always been categorical in our declarations. At the same time, however, we do not want to interrupt our relationship with a brotherly nation and lose our economic position there. This will be our policy at the moment. The European Commission knows my opinion on both the South Stream and the construction of the gas hub. You can see that by today we have no written confirmation of the suspension of South Stream. This means that in Moscow, too, we are aware that we have no blame for the situation of bilateral and multilateral relations, and the problem is only Ukraine. We as a state or I myself as prime minister to take a different position than that of the European Union and NATO will not do it. That's my position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u118	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Siderov, come in for a line. I leave a little more time to everyone, as you can see, so that both the question and the answer can develop.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u119	Thank you. You are absolutely right, Prime Minister, that it is much more difficult now than during the Cold War. Yes, then things were divided into two camps and the Bulgarian government was much easier for him. I agree that it is much more difficult now, so to speak, to play in the big geopolitical game, but this also gives better opportunities for non-standard moves. What's my advice, because I've been in this room for ten years? Although the relations between our party and your party have endured different twists, I have looked benevolently and have seen, so to speak, to provide methodical assistance to everyone who is in power in Bulgaria. What can be done now? You say that you can do nothing other than the EU and NATO as a Euro-Atlantic position. Let us not forget, however, that the EU and NATO are not a barracks. They're not some place where we march and salute. These are organizations where every country has its own opinion, right? If it isn't, then we've completely lost our sovereignty. I believe that both in the European Union and NATO, the regulations, as far as we have voted against the Lisbon Treaty in this House and against our membership in NATO, but being that the reality is such that we are members, nor the statutes of NATO, nor the Lisbon Treaty obliges us to accept uncritically any decision that anyone tells us there. On the contrary, we can express not only our opinion. You said you expressed it. That's good. But you can also say more. Make the next move. Say that Bulgaria from now on will not respect sanctions and you are also calling on Merkel and Holland and all other leaders to do so and thus show the US that the US is pursuing a wrong policy. Someone should finally tell this country, claiming to be the strongest in the world, yes, it is militaryly strong, economically not so strong. Her debt is over 19 trillion dollars. And now let me tell you why the conflict in Ukraine and fixing this situation will not be so recent. It is precisely because the economic situation of the United States is very difficult, although we accept that this is the most developed country in the world. Yes, it is the richest, but it consumes nearly 45% of the world's gross product and produces 5 This situation can't go on forever. In order to continue it, the United States needs to ignite outbreaks of war. And for this reason they will maintain the conflict in Ukraine for a long time. I don't know how much. I'm not a prophet, but it won't end very quickly. That is why Bulgaria now has the chance to tell the European Union: You'll make history if you do! Mark my words. I've said a lot of things here. They turned out to be loyal after that. And that will be true. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. Mr. Prime Minister, what do you think? No. The next question is to Minister Bozidar Lukarski of the National Representative Maya Manolova on personnel shifts in the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u121	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Lukarski, we all know that you are the Minister, who is the champion of political dismissals and appointments in the cabinet Borisov 2. We know of your reputation as the political executioner of every civil servant who is outside the circle of the Union of Democratic Forces, but obviously that does not bother you. We get the impression that you are proud of this, because despite criticism from foreign and opposition and other leaders from the Reformation bloc, you continue with the ambitious task of firing all those who have been appointed to previous governments, regardless of their professional experience and expertise. And that's probably because your party team, the management team of the UDF, literally moved to the Ministry of Economy, and for that reason the Ministry of Economy, I suppose, you know, is already known in society as the............................ That's where the party team took over the most important party task. Perhaps that's where you manage the party affairs, and as we know from Mr. Radan Kanev the most important party task is the feeding of the party elite and all those related to the parties from the Reformation bloc, or, in other words, the establishment of a good job of the management of the UDF, you have probably hired yourself to set up the work of the entire members of the UDF, given its size, and so far you are doing well. And here I will not list, starting ministers, deputy ministers, head of cabinet in: Commission for Consumer Protection, "Kintex" airport becomes Zagora, "Industrial Zones..."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u122	Please, your question, Mrs. Manolova!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u123	... The Institute of Marketing, "Sertification" EAD, "Ekomedet", "VМЗ "Sopot," Kazanlashki Military Factory, "Ovcha Kupel" EAD, not to list all the companies that are in the Patrimonium of the Ministry of Economy. My question is related to the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises, where the political broom decapitated so far seven people from the executive director to the driver. There are obviously new changes to the new Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u124	Mrs. Manolova, the question!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u125	What are your intentions to set up staff at the Agency for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u126	Thanks for having a question. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u127	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Manolova, at the beginning of my reply to you, I would like to stress that in addition to the Executive Director of the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium Enterprises, which has been released from me for reasons I will mention below, for the last two months from the entry of the new Executive Director in the Agency, no employees have been dismissed, as has been widely published by you in the media. There are several employees on the grounds of art. 107a of the Civil Service Act is proposed to terminate the service against compensation. Four people have accepted the proposal on the basis of which the Executive Director has terminated the relationship. Other staff on whom termination is proposed have not accepted the proposal and they continue to work at the Agency. And none of them were fired. Once I have clarified to you the factual situation in relation to the number of staff released and the way in which they were released, namely, after their personal agreement, given in writing, I will also refer to the reasons why such termination of service has been proposed. It is no secret to anyone, and this has also been confirmed in many signals to the Ministry received during various meetings that the business is not satisfied with the work of the Agency so far. Complaints are of a very different nature, but if I can summarize them, the main groups are: weak communication, poor and depreciating attitude of the administration, a complete lack of understanding of the problems of the companies that can be resolved, if there is a will to do so, a lack of activity of the Agency in promoting business, a lack of awareness of the Agency's activities and, last but not least, a scandalous conduct of selection of candidates for funding under the National Innovation Fund, resulting in numerous accusations that have grown into cases. In addition, it has been established that some projects on which the Agency is working, such as that under the Operational Programme "Administrative Capacity" are totally blocked and there is little done about them within the last year, leading to a huge risk of loss of European funds, as well as the Agency's inability to increase the level of services provided to businesses and to digitise part of the processes. In addition, for the past nearly two years ASMEs has not applied for any new project to help the Bulgarian business. All these facts give a general picture of the state of the Agency towards the Minister of Economy and show the need for urgent, cardinal changes at all levels in it. To this end, I have appointed a new CEO, who is tasked precisely with returning and establishing the Agency's rightful place as a connecting link between the state in the face of the Ministry of Economy and the business in the face of small and medium-sized enterprises, which make up about 98% of all companies in the country. It is entirely within the authority of the Executive Director to take action within the framework of the law, which he believes will allow him to carry out his tasks so placed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u128	Thank you. Line, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u129	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Lukarsky, I will not have enough time to analyze the agency's previous work, nor the qualities of the fired employees. All I'm gonna say is that they're people with experience and professional qualifications. I'll focus on your new assignments. Obviously, I will have to repeat them in front of both the plenary and the Bulgarian citizens. An Executive Director of the Agency has been appointed Mrs. Harizanova, who took part in the draining of the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises together with the former Executive Director Nikolay Stoyanov, appointed on the last day of GERB's management. There were hollow contracts between the two, empty of content, no commitments, the Agency paid. For this reason, DANS, and then the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office leads to court proceedings against the Nikolai Stoyanov in question, who has concluded contracts with the current executive director appointed by you to the Agency. The problem is that the scheme is reproduced on the principle of me, you and your current newly appointed executive director has concluded the same contract with hollow contract investigations Nikolay Stoyanov in the amount of more than 13 thousand. lv. Moreover, this gentleman, as far as information is concerned with the Agency, perhaps you will now disprove it, prepare to be appointed deputy executive director of the same Agency. I put aside the fact that employees have been questioned in connection with his pre-trial proceedings about what outrage he has done at the Agency, now you are trying to return it to them as chief of people who work in good faith both in this and in previous and in previous governments. If we look at the rules that you have already established, there is clear that you are a lawyer, that you are preparing a total purge of employees at the Agency, but there is also a huge feathered collaborators. I ask: what kind of people do you appoint who can't do their own work and have to make civil contracts so that someone outside can do their job?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u130	Your time is up. Please, one last sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u131	What kind of outrage is that? My question is: have you terminated the civil contract in question, signed now for 13,000. lv.? Do you intend to reassign these people for the Agency's leadership? And I warn you because obviously neither the media nor the parliamentary control frighten you that I will write an official letter to the Coalition Council of your coalition appropriate measures in the Ministry to take Bachvarova and the head of the coalition Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u132	I remind you that your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u133	In any other way, I do not see how the civil servants of the Agency can get justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova, for the irrigation line. Here you go, Mr. Lukarski, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u135	According to the Rules of the National Assembly, which you, of course, well know, Mrs. Manolova, I will not answer your final questions. I'll give you an answer when you ask them. And with regard to the personnel changes that you're talking about, it's nice, I see you're clearly well informed and well aware of the Agency's work, only you've misspelled the name. No Mrs. Harizanova has been appointed. Mrs. Zaharieva. It's nice to keep a good record and know what it's about. You're a lawyer, and as far as your accusations are concerned, you may be liable to a penalty because you're accusing people of a crime. Just to let you know that for the face Nikolai Stoyanov was conducted an investigation and was terminated by the Sofia Prosecutor's Office due to the fact that there is no crime. Thank you. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u136	Thank you, Mr. Lukarski. The last question to you is from the MP Slavi Binev about communication strategy, probably the Ministry of Economy. Here you go, Mr. Binev. You have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u137	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! One of the main lessons learned from the last Programme period 2007 - 2013 is that there is a need for a much deeper and broader information campaign. Information should be in a completely understandable language, not in a European or administrative slang, and people should not be able to understand exactly what this is about. There's no such campaign going on right now. According to the data submitted, contracts are being concluded for the implementation of the Communication Plans for the 2007-2013 programming period and 2014-2020. What is the logic of March 2015 to conclude information campaign contracts that have already expired on an expired operational programme? Is this media comfort because it cannot in any case be accepted as promoting European programmes? If it is proved that this happened with your consent, will you resign and punish the people who helped all this happen because they are clear who they are? If this implementation of the Communication Strategy has happened with your knowledge, will you withdraw from the post? I want to develop my question because he has one warning. The absolutely new package of documents, the required information and the way of evaluation with an absolutely new method of application through the electronic platform carries an unacceptable high risk of failure of the entire application procedure. This requires even more communication strategy to be at the level at which it needs to be in order for people to really get information. I am absolutely sure that all my colleagues here can confirm my words, as well as the media, because if you make some inquiries about the information you have about the operational programs, you will answer my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u138	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Minister Lukarski, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u139	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Binev, the measures for information and publicity during the Programme period 2014 - 2020 are part of the National communication strategy with which Bulgaria as a Member State of the European Union informs its citizens in the most appropriate way about the aid provided by the EU funds and the effect it will have on the country. In implementation of the National Communication Strategy, the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" developed an Annual Action Plan for 2015 to be approved by the Monitoring Committee. As I have repeatedly stated, a leading factor in the implementation of the Operational Programme is ensuring maximum transparency and publicity of the management process. Therefore, the promotion of the new programme started long before its official approval by the European Commission on 13 March 2015. In particular, more important events were presented to the Operational Program "Innovation and Competitiveness" from the beginning of the year to the present are as follows: on 14 January 2015 in Sofia, within the framework of the Open Forum for Dialogue between Sofia Municipality and the Small and Medium Business "Innovation and Competitiveness" on 27 February 2015. On March 13, 2015 in Sofia, Involved in an information event on the implementation of the community-led local development approach and the opportunity to support OPIC; on March 13, 2015 in Sofia, the International Cluster of a meeting where clusters under the Operational Programme are presented; on March 19, 2015. In the second annual conference "Innovation and Entrepreneurship 2015," industrial development, clusters and technologies "The already approved programme has been officially presented; on 16 April 2015 in Sofia "Innovation and Entrepreneurship" at the conference of representatives of business, trade unions and non-governmental organizations in the presence of the Vice-President of the European Commission Jyrki Katainen was officially presented the already approved programme; on 22 April 2015 at the meeting of the Regional Council for Development of the Southwestern Region were presented under the Operational Programme the measures and guidelines for the application; on 23 April 2015 in Gabrovo and in Sevlievo, information events on the possibility of funding under the OPEC line were held in Sofia on 28 April 2015. In addition, the Managing Authority has prepared more than 60 responses to requests from citizens from the sections "General questions and answers" and "Projects, opinions and recommendations" for funding opportunities under the Operational Programme, which are published in numerous editions and on the Programme's website. In March 2015, the first procedure for granting grants to improve production capacity in small and medium-sized enterprises was also published for public consultation. All comments were reflected and taken into account. I stress, before its official publication, the results of the discussion are published on the Programme's website. In order to avoid any possibility of rigged procedures and maximum transparency... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Can we just have extra time because it's a long question and it's of public interest?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u140	Of course. [[Reply from the National Representative Slavi Binev.]] This will be an opportunity for you to comment in the line. Continue, Mr. Lukarsky, but please graduate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u141	After the first procedure was announced, the production capacity in small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) launched a broad information campaign for its performance. The campaign is held throughout the country from 11 May to 21 May 2015 with teams of experts of the Managing Authority on site in the cities of Vratsa, Veliko Tarnovo, Varna, Burgas, Plovdiv and Sofia. Regarding the conclusion of contracts with electronic media to promote the implementation of the previous operational programme and the development of the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy 2007-2013, I inform you the following. Given the implementation of the program...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u142	You'll say it in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u143	The aim of the Managing Authority is to acquaint the business and the general public with the results achieved and the successful completion of the programming period, to show the real effect of the implementation of the program on the Bulgarian business. I would like to emphasise that all contracts are concluded only to promote the implementation and presentation of good practices from the implementation of the previous programme, which is the responsibility of the managing authority. The information about the contracts concluded is public and is constantly updated on the explicit insistence of the Deputy Prime Minister of European Affairs Tomislav Donchev. [[The President said that the time had run out.]] I'm stopping. I have more information...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u144	Thank you, Mr. Lukarski. Maybe your dot will be shorter. At least that's what I'm calling you! Mr. Binev, in the line you can comment on the quality...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u145	I'm not sure if the Minister understood my question. Even the Prime Minister reads the right answers. My question was absolutely simple. The communication strategy should be made clear to each of the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria what opportunities the operational programs provide. Hey here, to do a test outside, including the media, as well as everyone who's here to say, we are the people who need to know the most about this issue. I'm absolutely sure that this test will not be passed by anyone. Money is tossed for a communication strategy. It must be explained in an appropriate language for each one in order to reach it with information on what opportunities operational programmes provide. First of all, we're all here, people are watching us on TV right now, let them say if they've been reached in the right language. Because it should not be translated by any consultants, consulting companies or some who translate from Bulgarian to Bulgarian. You don't have to. The money for the communication strategy they're throwing away is millions. They must find each of the potential beneficiaries. Everything else is bullshit and payment for media comfort. Nothing else! Keep in mind that money from European programmes is the only breath of air for the Bulgarian business, as even by reference at the moment it is well known that direct private investment has fallen times since the last year, which has been the weakest since we entered the European Union. This is the only opportunity at the moment to support the Bulgarian business. If we really care about something happening on this issue, we need the communication strategy to be on the level. Everything else is payment of media comfort.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u146	Thank you, Mr. Binev. A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u147	I absolutely agree with you, Mr. Binev. That's why the information campaign is going on. The business reviews "I don't know who you're talking to and which consultants" are that things under the new program are clear and that for the first time they have transparency on the measures and guidelines for applying. Fine, you leave the hall, so in your absence I will say, Dear Mr. Binev, that it is not about payment of media comfort, because I personally do not feel such media comfort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u148	Thank you, Minister Lukarski. With this question, your participation in today's parliamentary control is over. We wish you a good day. Moving on to the next set of questions. They're for Mr. Peter Moskov, Minister of Health. The first question is from the MP Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev on the financial obligations of the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. Vidin, as at 1 January 2015 Here you go, Mr. Toshev. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I'll start another way, because today, the Minister of Health and I are going to have a lot to talk about. The only goal is to clarify fully the situation of the only state hospital in Vidin region, because there is virtually another municipal hospital in Belogradchik, but it has much less opportunities than the Vidin hospital. I want to be properly understood, Minister. I don't have any personal relations, no personal attacks. It's nothing personal. We just need to make sure that we improve the condition of the hospital in Vidin. That's why we're gonna talk to you. I'll start with the financial commitments first. I think we were in the middle of December with you, in the cabinet, representatives of the National Assembly from the Vidin region, together with you and your main team, as well as the team of the management of the hospital. Then it wasn't understood, even to you, how much the hospital's liabilities were.6.4 million, 5.1 million and so on. We couldn't figure it out. I hope you know that now. I would like to remind you that you should also know that by the beginning of 2010, when the previous management took over the hospital, the total duties were about 1 million. BGN, with the overdue of them being about 400 thousand. BGN, including commitments to the NRA about 150 thousand. BGN and, at the beginning of 2013, when the management of the hospital was changed, which is from the current team, the obligations were about the same, without obligations to insurance, to the institutions of the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u150	Please navigate towards completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u151	My question is: what happens to the financial situation of the Vidin hospital? There's talk of 6.4 plus 3.5, plus props, plus credits and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u152	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u153	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Toshev, really today in a series of questions will become the whole framework of the Vidin Hospital St. Petka. I will therefore limit myself to the context of the matter on every subject. I'm not getting out of it, which concerns your other questions. Dear Mr. Toshev, I present to your attention the amount of the debts, including those due at St. Petka Hospital. Vidin: According to the submitted preliminary, not yet certified by an independent auditor, data on the medical establishment as of 31 December 2014, the company reported the existence of long-term obligations on a 1 million energy efficiency loan. Seven hundred and fifteen On 31 December 2014, the short-term commitments amounted to 3 million. 813 thousand. BGN, of which 2 million 143,000. lv. are obligations to suppliers, staff and insurance contributions of 948 thousand. lv. Tax liabilities, local taxes and fees amount to 92 thousand. BGN and other short-term liabilities lv. As of 31 December 2014, the company took into account the existence of overdue liabilities to suppliers. 481,000. lv. Visible from the presented by the Hospital "St. Petka" JSC. Vidin, information as at 31 December 2014, has a cash resource of 1 million. 046 thousand. BGN, which has not been acquired, respectively, have not been repaid obligations to suppliers due to a matching of the period of cash transfer for activity by the NHIF on the weekends at the end of 2014. The medical institution indicated that the total obligations to the suppliers were reduced to 1 million by 28 February 2015. 420 thousand. 592,46 BGN, of which 801 thousand are overdue. BGN 183,30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u154	Thank you, Mr. Moskov. The line, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, you rightly said that these figures were submitted by the management of the hospital and were not authorized by an independent body. I'm not saying I don't believe it. I'm just mentioning that fact. I trust the management of the hospital, and so do you. You should be. Otherwise, if we don't trust them, what they're doing there and what we're doing here! That's not the point. I regret, on the one hand, that we are so late talking to you because this issue is from a few weeks or months ago, but our mutual commitment has led to this. On the other hand, it is good that we will concentrate the issues as a conversation in a parliamentary control to become a prominent picture of the Vidin hospital. In this sense, my line to you is: I think the hospital's monthly budget is about 600,000. BGN, then we will prove with you, at least I will try to prove, even with other figures, that this situation leads to the decapitalization of the hospital. In fact, whether the obligations are 6 million plus 3.5 million court claims from another case, which we will discuss shortly, plus credit, the hospital has a backlog, in fact I would be very worried as a minister, and as a member of the parliament I am extremely concerned about the quality of health care in the Vidin hospital.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u156	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. [[The National Representative Vladimir Toshev transmits documents to Minister Moskov.]] You're handing over documents. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Toshev, you can take your place in the stands again. The next question is from you again. It is related to the provision of the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. Vidin, with medicines in 2014 You have the floor to formulate the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, in order for any enterprise or establishment to work, or institution must have the basic materials with which it can carry out its main activity. In this case, the Vidin hospital has the building fund, the equipment, there should also be medicines or medicines.. I do not know the exact term for it to be able to work. What's this about right now? I will tell you several dates: on 26 November 2013 the contract with one of the companies for delivery of medicines has partially expired. I'm not going to mention company names so that we don't cause other conversations that are not in the context of questions at all. On 9 January 2014, four other companies expired the contracts and no steps were taken to renew these contracts, to declare public procurement and so on. All supply contracts expire on 2 August 2014. All contracts expire in the middle of the year. There is some three-month grace period under the law, you know it better than I, which has also expired and nothing has been done. Only on December 17, 2014 are some steps taken, which, if we look at the calendar, will we see that in five days, which is the normal term for the entry into force of the contract, comes Christmas and New Year and is practically spent around 190 thousand. BGN, total for 2014, from the management of the hospital funds without legal basis for the purchase of medicines. I would like to give you one more fact for which I hope you will disprove me, but at the moment the hospital in Vidin is no longer in the hospital, and there is no valid permission for pharmacies because the existing one is No 3669 of 12 March 2013 in the name of a doctor who is no longer in the hospital, and at the moment there are no elementary things like analgin and papaverin. I hope I'm punctual.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u158	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. Minister Moskov, come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u159	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Toshev, I have an extremely detailed, according to a preliminary response for individual suppliers, value of contracts and everything else. I will allow myself to pass it on to the asking MP because it contains a certain type of information which may not be right to be exported, but you will see the full factology by companies during, at the value of the contracts and the time of the contracts. In 2014 the University Hospital "St. Petka" Vidin delivered 12 contracts with suppliers, determined after an open procedure under the Public Procurement Act. Accordingly, here are listed all companies and you will be able to draw your own conclusions from whether there is concentration to certain companies or not. A declaration was received from the medical establishment under the documents requested by the Ministry that no supplies of medicines were made in 2014 without a procedure under the Public Health Act. After which, what you are talking about, the expiry of the procedure, the decision of the Executive Director for a new open procedure under the Public Health Act and a new delivery contractor for medicines was taken on 19 August, i.e. really back in time, but it is not December. December is actually beginning the implementation of these procedures, with the first contract signed on 17 December. It's my birthday. The conclusion of new contracts for the supply of medicines is carried out according to deadlines and prices at the moment of the contracts concluded in 2013, which indicate that these contracts may be extended until a new procedure under the Law on Public Procurement, but not more than three months from the expiry of the contract. I'm not ready to answer the question right now. You really surprise me about whether the hospital pharmacy meets the standards. This check will be done today, in the coming hours and by the end of the day you will have my answer. If this turns out to be the case, the necessary action will have to be taken and the Ministry will take them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u160	Thank you, Minister Moskov. Would you like a line? Yeah. [[Mister Moskov transmits documents to the MP Vladimir Toshev.]] The exchange of documents continues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u161	I hope that Minister Moskov and I will not only exchange documents and fairy tales, but also do work because it is really heavy there for the people who are being treated and who are working as well as for the whole area. Mr. Minister, you gave me that number. I knew that to suppliers of medicines and drugs the obligations were about 2 million. You said the number 2 million. 143,000. lv. This is extremely disturbing because you are aware that although pharmaceutical companies are alive and healthy, they are quite high-speed, but 6-7 figures are serious for every company, even outside Bulgaria, even outside Europe. That, on the one hand. On the other hand, purely human, and I ask you: even if your driver now, when you go outside, turns out that there is no fuel in the car, how long will he be fired before you leave here, or shortly afterwards? This is not about the fuel of your service car, this is about basic medicines that concern the health of Vidin citizens and, of course, all guests of the area. The situation in this area is extremely serious. Yes, you gave the dates mid-August and late December. However, I have given this perhaps inappropriate example of the fuel of your light car, but if the driver can see how far the gasoline arrow has gone, the director of the hospital has a fundamental obligation not to wait to alert her that the drug contracts have expired, but to take preventive measures and to announce the procedures in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u162	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Toshev, I will not argue in any way. On the contrary, I absolutely share the findings of the serious situation of the Vidin hospital. More or less irrational management of the hospital, of course, there are also objective reasons related to the structure of the population above, in visionary, with the way, if you will, which the state has generally regulated so far. If we are talking specifically about this issue, the marketing of medicinal products in hospitals, indeed the possibility of doubting that the hospital whether in good condition, whether in poor financial condition it carries out margins on public procurement for medicines, will be able to be lightened after that, for which you voted at first reading for the electronic drug platform. Then everything will be visible and there will be no need in this confidential way to give you commercial information. Otherwise, to say that in general, this is one of the priorities of the government recorded in the Northwestern Management Program. Within the next week, the Ministry of Public Hospitals' Investment Programme will be finally adopted. We will pay attention to this hospital on purpose because there is a need for support outside the company's capital balance sheets, but simply because it is really the only state hospital and together with the Belgrade-based hospital, which is the second hospital in the whole area. Whatever the financial situation, we do not have the opportunity to reduce the volume of activity or change the level of authorisation, not answers, because the local population will not be left with anything. That is, this hospital needs to stabilize, it needs to be strengthened if there is to be additional resources in it, just because the hospital infrastructure there does not give alternatives to people.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u164	Thanks for the douche bag, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Toshev, I see you have five more questions in this session, so today you can stay where you are and monitor the minister's answers. The next question is from the MPs Boyka Grozeva Marinska and Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov regarding the provision of medical care in emergency situations by hospital care facilities. Welcome to the stand, Mrs. Marinska, to formulate your question within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u165	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary! The Law on Medical Institutions................................................................................................... 19th para. 3 entrusts hospital care facilities other than carrying out medical activities in medical specialties for which they have been authorised, but also providing emergency medical care 24 hours a day. Despite the explicit legal obligation, it is not rare when individual hospital care facilities refuse to accept emergencies, putting patients' lives and health at risk. The concept for the development of emergency medical care in the Republic of Bulgaria is also recognised that there is a process of loading of certain hospitals with emergencies, while other structures work mainly planned and limited activity. This leads to unacceptable situations when patients are transported between multiple hospitals before reaching a hospital where they can be provided with such assistance. Please provide me with information regarding the following: How is the state's control of compliance with the legal obligation to ensure 24-hour access to medical care in emergency situations in any hospital? For which hospital care facilities do you have information that emergency patients are not accepted for treatment? What is the concept of the team of the Ministry of Health for the development of emergency care in hospital care facilities and if the current regime is maintained, what measures will you take to comply with the Law in order to ensure access to quality medical care of every Bulgarian citizen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Marinska. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u167	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marinska! Dear Mr. Shishkov, because the two MPs together raise the question. In relation to the question raised regarding the provision of medical care in emergency situations by medical institutions, I will inform you of the following. The provision of access to every Bulgarian citizen, as well as to other persons located in the territory of the country, is a non-negotiable commitment of the state and the obligation of any medical establishment under the legislation in force. The Ministry of Health is financing through a subsidy methodology for medical institutions, specialized hospital structures for emergency care, emergency rooms such as 37 hospitals are currently being opened. I mean, let's just say there doesn't have to be an emergency room out there, and that doesn't cancel the hospital's commitment under Law to accept emergency conditions. The control of compliance with the regulatory requirements relating to medical activities, including emergency medical care, is carried out by the specialized structure of the Medical Audit Executive Agency. IAMO shall carry out checks on the compliance of the structure, management and organisation of medical treatment and requirement of the Health Act, the Law on Medical Institutions and the regulations on their application by complying with the established medical standards in medical institutions. Control is planned and ongoing. Initial checks for authorisation to carry out medical activities with regard to the presence of structural equipment shall be carried out by regional health inspections. The Executive Agency "Medicinski Audit" and the RZI are the legal entities of budget support to the Minister of Health who must carry out this control. Currently, the Ministry does not have information on medical facilities that do not receive treatment for patients in emergency condition. In entering an alert for refusal of admission of patients, there is a regulatory definition by which the Ministry of Health appoints a check, establishes the relevant authorities and in the event of infringement, the measures provided for by the Law are adopted. In view of the maximum guarantee of access of Bulgarian citizens to emergency assistance, the current management of the Ministry and respectively the Council of Ministers adopted in November the Emergency Aid Development Concept. But from what has been read, you know many times what is about to happen in Emergency Aid, here somewhere was Mrs. Manolova, who was explaining to the Prime Minister what was going on in Emergency Aid, to say that when this government came to power, for example, in Sofia, there were between 10 and 12 teams on duty in Emergency Assistance. Now there are between 24 and 27 teams on regular duty. This is what I call reform and improvement. If it's just talk to someone, it's on them. Mrs. Marinska, outside of all this, if I have one more minute, Mr. Chairman, I should say because...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u168	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u169	Okay. It's an important question. The methodology of the National Health Insurance Fund for determining the amounts that go to the relevant hospitals at the request of the Ministry explicitly included the actual implementation of urgency through the data of the Emergency Medical Centers. For those hospitals which actually carry out such emergency medical care, the funding was therefore and continues to be increased. They were accepted at the last Cassate Supervision by 20 and 21% respectively for the relevant hospitals an increase in the financing of these hospitals, which is a way for those hospitals that are in real urgency to be awarded. Otherwise, if, because you say in asking that you have specific signals received, please give them to me. The sanctions will be immediate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u170	Thank you, Minister Moskov. Would you like a line, Mrs. Marinska? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have a line. I would like to thank Dr. Moskov for his comprehensive response, and I would like to stress that, knowing him well, what he said here in the stands is going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u172	Thank you. A hole? There's no need. Okay. The thanks are mutual. We continue again with a question from the National Representative Vladimir Toshev about the prospects for invasive cardiology in Vidin. We continue to sit on the territory of the Vidin hospital. You have the opportunity to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Really... By the way, while the previous answer was running, I vaguely made a reference. From this tribune in dialogue with ministers only about Vidin is mentioned more only "Danube Bridge 2." But there, things came to a good finish, even though they were in a very tragic state. I hope that with you we will break this record and improve the health status as a whole in the Vidin region. In this regard, November 2013 at the Vidin Hospital with quite normal and legal contracts which have been verified by your previous colleagues in the Ministry, was built after repair, furniture and appointment of personnel invasive cardiology.. Private in which owners from 1 January 2014................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... For unexplained reasons, however, after the change of previous leadership, which makes this cardiology with privates, the attacks begin with the current leadership. There are some unsuccessful attempts to end the contracts in February and March 2014, with the possibility of starting construction with already created, built, staffed and pouring state money over 2 million. lv. For now for repair and purchase of equipment, by giving you one date 3 December 2014 the current director of the hospital has said that the only reason is to prevent a private structure from receiving government money. To open the Constitution if she has not read it and see that the owners in Bulgaria are absolutely equal and even a crime what she said.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u174	If you please the question, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u175	But right now there are two structures for invasive cardiology, none of them are working. What are the prospects, Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u176	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. Minister Moskov, please come in for an answer within 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u177	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Toshev! Currently in Vidin there is no revealed structure of cardiology with a third level of competence operating in invasive cardiology and practically providing access to patients for the modern treatment of cardiovascular diseases is very limited, not to say missing. The Ministry of Health has received applications for disclosure of the structure of invasive cardiology by SBALK "Vidin " Ltd., which is the private hospital, and the hospital "St. Petka" "St. Petka" "St. Vidin," the state hospital. Following an evaluation of the submitted documentation, it was found that both institutions to different degrees did not meet the requirements of the established medical standard cardiology, and SBALK 9, para. 6 of the Law on Medical Institutions. It's a long story, you know. Permission to carry out medical activities of SBALK "Vidin" has not been issued given that the hospital has not provided documents certifying the implementation of the medical standard cardiology, in view of which no explicit refusal of an operating permit has been issued. In this regard, the SAC has ordered the annulment of the silent refusal and judgment to rule in an explicit act by the Minister of Health. In the light of the decision given, an invitation to the SBALK is made to the SBALK "Vidin" Ltd. to remove the incompletes and to apply for authorisation to carry out medical activities as defined in art. 47, para. Eight of the ZLMs in due time. At present, the necessary documents certifying compliance with the requirements of the medical standard "Cardiology" have not been provided by a medical establishment and, in accordance with the Decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, a refusal of authorisation of the activity has been issued. With regard to St. A guidance has also been issued to address the identified non-compliances with the requirements of the established medical standard. At present, the medical establishment has provided additional documents and is in a procedure for granting authorisation for carrying out medical activities if there are correspondence. The Ministry expressed a desire to solve the problem of the population in Vidin and is currently making maximum efforts. In this regard, I have applied protocol here and I will give it to you. You know that at the end of last year, during perhaps two weeks, we daily mediated meetings between the management of the two hospitals... the state and private. I will read you only part of the text of the joint protocol signed by the Director of SBALK Vidin. Petka "that despite the efforts of the Ministry of Health in Vidin to have invasive cardiology, there will be none and there will be none." It's not the Ministry of Health's fault. It's about a trade dispute. Who is wrong and who is right, I may have my own opinion, I have shared it with you, but from a legal point of view at the moment the ministry does not have the right to, on the basis of the fulfilment of the criteria, to grant permission to either hospital. At the time of entering my team, this government into action in the state hospital, indeed against the background of the existing private built structure within the hospital, based on public funding, was therefore to a serious extent advanced the project for state hospital CATLAB, i.e. within the state hospital invasive cardiology. We're currently in a state where we have two invasive cardiology, and we can't authorize either. This dispute will probably have to be resolved again with the ministry's mediation. I think the option to reach it is that at the end of this year one of the two cardiologists will surely get this permission one way or another.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u178	Please graduate, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u179	We are having certain negotiations that are on the brink of the rules, because there is really no such help in the whole region, so that we can try to provide Vidin's citizens with such health care this year. I'll try to be more specific after that with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u180	Thank you. Here's a line, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I've made myself clear in this particular case that in Vidin, over 6 million have been invested in the hospital. lv. general and no invasive cardiology. The problem is serious because invasive cardiology cures severe heart attacks and strokes. Specialized cars, which are not in the Vidin hospital, come from Vratsa or from Pleven, travel back with patients and they usually do not reach the medical facilities. I very much hope that at the end of this year in Vidin, God willing, there will be invasive cardiology. It would be best to stick to the effort. In my line to you, I have two questions. I want you to tell me here that you respect private property as much as the state, although you are the principal 83% of the Vidin Hospital, but you are the head of the entire ministry and you are responsible for the entire health care in Bulgaria, including Vidin. Secondly, with you the director of the hospital in mid-December said that there are prepared personnel who will work in the invasive state cardiology in Vidin. On the one hand, Ekaterina. On the other hand, she will send a visionary staff to qualify in St. George's Day. Ekaterina. Sofia. At least this hospital she mentioned. Is there something going on, or was that a coeurfiche that she fooled us with?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u182	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. For the coat, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u183	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Toshev, you were aware of some of the people you were with from all the political forces in Vidin, with which we tried to solve this problem together. What things didn't we offer? So that one can hire the other, the other can hire the first, they can work both, the two Catlabes, the State Catlabes, and the private one can be used for different things, the other for periphery, the other for coronarys, whatever. There is no understanding between the two things. There's, uh, there's, uh, hard feud there. I can't say. Of course, I do not share the infrastructures of private and state, but of one which is useful, to one which, at a public fund-acceptable price, performs a certain service of a certain quality. There's no entirely right side there. Both sides have acted quite harshly against each other all the time depending on the predominance that one or the other had at one time or another. What the headmistress of the hospital says is true. There is a contract with the team from St. George. Catherine. He cannot start working in any of Vidin's catalabs because of the inability to have a permit. Enchanted round, which I guarantee to you and to all Members of the National Assembly that at the end of this year it will be resolved one way or the other. So Vidin will have invasive cardiology. Once again, I say that we are making efforts that I would not like to comment on right now to do so within this budget year.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u184	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov concerning problems related to the services of the emergency medical care of the small municipalities. Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, my question is aimed at a very big problem that is facing in Bulgaria. It is related to emergency aid in small municipalities, as some municipalities have one ambulance per two municipalities, two ambulances per two municipalities. Last year, we had a case in Provadia, where with an open arm fracture, the wife had to wait two hours and ten minutes for an ambulance. I am interested to hear your concept: how will this change and how will we, as a country, be able to pay more attention to small municipalities in the future? You understand that it is not only Sofia that there should be an ambulance, although here medical teams should be 32 minimum, according to calculations that have been made, and even 24 to 26 teams is not absolutely the entire capacity of an ambulance, which should be implemented in Sofia as well. I hope that we will hear that in small municipalities there will be not one team, for example, Provadia "Vetrino 1" but there will be three teams, because these things happen most regularly, every day, and people will not care so much about Sofia, but they care about, believe me, where they live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u186	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. For an answer, Minister Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u187	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Alexandrov, by giving this example to Sofia that there is in three months a doubling of the real working teams on shift, I did not say that this is the task accomplished. I said there's a real action that the government can show to the public that work is done. And this is not only in Sofia, that is, the saturation with teams is going around the country and this does not fall out of the air, but is a result of certain policies that the government and the ministry implement. Under current legislation, the minimum number and type of emergency medical teams shall be defined as follows: - In the population density of the area, greater than 76.6 inhabitants per square kilometer, is: one medical team of 35 thousand. residents with postings for doctors or health care professionals - One E.R. team at 150,000. residents with postings of medical staff "6" medical specialists "6" drivers "6" for each Emergency Medical Center have at least two resuscitation teams; - When population density in the area is less than 76,6 inhabitants per square kilometer 1 medical team per 700, and one resuscitation team of 2 thousand. square kilometers. For the three centers for emergency medical care shumen, and Targovishte, according to all the above-mentioned standards, are respected. Whether these standards are good or standards have been imposed in relation to the existing capabilities of the state is now a separate issue. But to say that, according to the Council of Ministers' adopted concept for the development of emergency assistance in Bulgaria 2014-2020, which is now finally funded and financed by 85 million euros, we are providing for a health card, with a clear logistical scheme, on which we are currently working, a map of emergency medical care, where within 15 minutes, which is currently a fact for only some of the major cities, at each point of Bulgaria there will be teams of emergency assistance. This is a comprehensive concept that we have defended before the European Commission in relation to the allocation of the money under this programme. The aim is to have access to linear, 30 minutes of medical care outside the ambulance in a stationary emergency.. will be revealed in remote locations with equipment and equipment, or in a larger hospital where they need it. So all of this is clear, it's also written as an action plan. In no way do I say I underestimate the people's representation, but we have defended on the basis of this Concept a minute and a logistics base, each lev of that 85 million. EUR in front of these otherwise stingy people from the European Commission and we have been able to protect it. So the problem, as you put it, is real. There are clear steps on the Action Plan that are part of the Concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u188	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, by education I am a financier and it is more appropriate for me to say that there is no money and to dictate some methodologies based on what we have at the moment. If I'm not mistaken, you're a doctor and you're used to protecting people's lives. And what is the methodology at the moment can change. That you protected 85 million. Euros is great if you think we can fix the problem with them. But it's kind of... I can't tie this up, understand! Not on the basis of the number of residents and put another factor in the.................................................................................................... I think that in settlements, especially in small municipalities, people are mostly adults, as well as in villages, and falling into risk diseases and risk groups, such as diabetes, heart attacks and brain attacks and so on, is much bigger than in other places. If the concentration of young people in large cities means a larger number of ambulances, definitely in small municipalities, in villages, they also have a much more specific and more urgent activity. I welcome that you are in charge of this reform. However, I hope this does not happen that we will be waiting for 2020 with the Europe 2020 Project. And this thing can happen really, really fast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u190	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u191	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Alexandrov! In no way do I say that we should wait 2020. The concept was adopted in December last year and it is already being worked on. For these months there are 56 new modern resuscitation vehicles equipped with the corresponding human eyepiece. [[Reply of the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]] Let's say that there are non-Bulgarian international standards of sanitary transport logistics. What we have changed in the Concept, unlike world standards, is in line with what you are talking about, and it is that in world standards things look like kilometers. We have accepted in our methodology, which, believe me, makes things much more difficult to realisable, but we have taken it as a commitment to time. In other parts of the world, 15 km generally means a certain amount of time, regardless of destination. In Bulgaria this is not so, as part of the things you talk about. There are 30 km that can be walked in 10 minutes, there are also 30 km that you can not walk in parts of Bulgaria in an hour. So each inhabited point is covered within the Termingo Concept, which I talked to you about 15 minutes to an ambulance, 30 minutes to a medical facility. Therefore, it is not expected until 2020, and it is under way under the Action Plan, and if you consult with it, you will see what its steps are.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u192	Thank you, Minister Moskov. We're back to Mr. Vladimir Toshev's series of questions. The next question is about the salaries of the staff at the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. Petka "AD," Vidin. I think the hospital will be remembered by all of us. Here you are, Mr. Toshev. You have the floor for the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, today, Minister Moskov and I will talk about the Vidin hospital in detail. Just to say that there are more questions whose answers his team failed to prepare, and in meetings and appearances here we will talk. The wages are the next sick moment. In his interview, the director of the hospital stated that he did not pay enough to the doctors, nurses and support staff because RHIF Vidin had not paid the hospital. This has happened, only in the previous management of the ministry and of the RHIF and the NHIF. Because then there was a 60% payment limit and so on and hospitals would go bankrupt. However, the current management is now convinced, although the official director has expressed a position that the state in the face of its Health Insurance Fund, paying more than 100% for the work carried out and the state has no obligations towards the hospital. It is then justified by old duties, and with old obligations we proved with you just now that the new ones are several times greater than the old ones. The problem is, at least in my opinion, that the current management of the hospital has tied the salary of the medical staff to the direct medical activity. That is to say, to have more money, they release untreated patients on the third day because they run out of trails. Whether this is true is true I claim that it is true, you will say whether it is not, but I would like you to answer me, relatively for the first quarters of 2013 and 2014 what are the salaries of the hospital management, doctors, average medical staff and support staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u194	Thank you. Come in for an answer, Minister Moskov. I hope you heard the question. [[Reply of the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u195	Yeah, yeah. [[Relations between the MPs Georgi Bojinov and Vladimir Toshev.]] For the roof, too? Floor by floor, we'll take the questions. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honourable colleague Toshev! UMHAL - Sv. Petka is a public limited company in the capital in which the State owns 83.25 percent of the capital and the rest is distributed among the municipalities of the region. The same medical establishment is a commercial company within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 2 of the Additional provisions of the Law on Medical Institutions and as such it is managed and represented by its management bodies "the Board of Directors and the Executive Director." In this sense are the provisions of art. 3, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 6, para. 1 of the Law on Financial Management and Control in the Public Sector, according to which the management responsibility is of the relevant management within the meaning of art. 2 of the law, including for the implementation of its activities and the protection of assets and information, subject to the principles of legality, good governance and transparency. According to the provided data from the Hospital "St. The average gross salary in total at the hospital was BGN 675,12 as of March 31, 2014. By categories of staff, the same is as follows: senior medical staff - BGN 1,067,94.; senior non-medical personnel; semi-high and average medical staff.. 618.67 BGN.; other staff - BGN 471,50 In view of the date of entry of the question, taking into account the need for technological time for accounting of operations for March 2015, data on the average gross salary were submitted by the medical institution on 28 February 2015. The hospital total of 651,84 BGN, according to the personnel categories the same is: senior medical staff 1 047,77 BGN.; senior non-medical personnel.. 580.46 BGN.; semi-high and average medical staff; other staff - BGN 481,83 It should be borne in mind that, as of 28 February 2015, for the months of December 2014, January and February 2015, the excess work of the hospital under a contract with the RHIF-Vidin and the funds for activities financed by the Ministry of Health for the month January and February 2015 had not been paid. At this time they have already been paid and the company explains the reduction in the amount of the average salary, on average 20 BGN. for the senior medical staff. That's the only discount. According to data from the medical establishment, the amount of the monthly remuneration of the Executive Director of the Hospital St. Petka "Vidin" AD, on 31 March 2014 is BGN 2 511,02 and on 28 February 2015 is BGN 2 542,76. The monthly remuneration of the members of the Board of Directors on 31 March 2014 is BGN 1 406,75 and on 28 February 2015 BGN 1 271,38. I'll give it to you. [[to the MP Vladimir Toshev]] This reference. Here, this is where I leave it. [[in the stands]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u196	A line, would you like a line? I see you've written down the numbers here for a line!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, when the figures say something, even we wouldn't allow ourselves to comment on it. I would allow myself to say this. For your information, so many hospitals are at your head over 300, you hardly know that the last increase in wages in the Vidin hospital has been since 2011. Others were coming, but we have come to this situation. There is no way to motivate graduates to work for 600 or 700 BGN, how to motivate them to qualify further to reach their salaries to 1000 BGN. We know that the state has serious health problems at national level, but in this regard, wages are somewhere better. Thank you for your information. I'm glad that a little bit, despite the obstructions of some colleagues, we'll clarify the situation of the Vidin hospital, because I don't think it's an exception. I've known since I talked to my colleagues that there have been cases like this in several places. Our common struggle will be by improving specifically the situation of the Vidin hospital, then in the nearest of the Montathan, Vratsa, the Loman, the Belgrade-based hospitals, to improve the health system, along with the reforms you have undertaken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u198	Thank you. A hole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u199	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Toshev, we are really going to make a joint effort for everything you say. In your statement about poor quality treatment of patients previously discharged and so on, I neglected to say the following. I take that as an excuse to self-serve. I will refer to the Medical Audit Service to check what you say, and I will duly inform you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u200	Thank you, Minister Moskov. Mr. Toshev, please come back to the stand to ask the next question, which is also about the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. Five and it concerns the Board of Directors. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u201	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I very much hope you will do this audit, because in our next meeting we will also talk about other extremely unpleasant cases concerning the lives of patients in the Vidin hospital, but this is further. Now about the Board of Directors of the Hospital. Petka "AD" in Vidin. This is your exclusive prerogative because you just mentioned that you are the owner of 83% of the shares of the AD, so you can solve the problem single-handedly. We know that one of the main duties of the Board of Directors or the Board of Directors, as its exact name is, is a complete stabilisation of the hospital's activities and its strengthening. If the operational management in the face of the Director, the chief physician and his assistants performs any inappropriate actions, the Board shall correct them and, accordingly, deter them. You mentioned in your previous sentence exactly in relation to the Hospital. Vidin that it is an obligation of the Board of Directors to manage transparently with the practices of good governance. Mr. Chairman, in order to get involved at least once in time, so that there are no remarks to me, I would like to ask the Minister: what is the composition of the Board of Directors at the moment? What are the criteria by which they have been appointed and are still the virtually significant body for the management of the Hospital Vidin?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u202	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. Minister Moskov, you have three minutes to answer your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u203	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Toshev, in so far as the question I am prepared to answer is for measures to improve the condition, and you are referring to the Board of Directors, to say that there is a General meeting of shareholders in the hospital. I can say that the Ministry representative will be changed. We need to conduct further consultations with the municipal councils, which are part of the shareholders, and with the local medical community for further change at the hospital board. On your particular question. The State represented by the Minister is one of the shareholders of the General Assembly. In this capacity, the Minister has no right to take sole action relating to the condition and activity. In order to improve the status of the material base and update of the equipment for the period 2011 - 2013 from the state budget through the Ministry of Health of the Hospital "St. The funds for construction and repair work on new equipment and equipment amounting to 1 million are provided. Four hundred and forty thousand. In 2014, a total of 1 million funds were allocated to the medical establishment. 490 thousand. lv. for the following sites: "Development and repair of the first department of internal diseases with activities in cardiology, rheumatology, establishment of an intensive laboratory, purchase of equipment for the department of invasive cardiology " 1 million. 400,000. BGN, and BGN, because there really is a prescription for elevators to be changed. By the way, that $90,000. lv. They haven't been mastered yet. That is what I can say on the specifics of your question, how it finances the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u204	Thank you. Will you take advantage of your right to a line? Here you are, Mr. Toshev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I understand that you and I speak very well from both the stands and outside the stands, we are basically from the same political group and we confess, at least in my opinion, the same ideas for the development and health care in Bulgaria, as well as everything else. I specifically asked you, and I have no claim against the Ministry's representatives on the Board of Directors. But, colleagues, though, if out of 100 shares I hold 83, the other 17 wouldn't care at all which municipality how much above zero percent he holds and what he will do with them. This is about the AD. My specific question was this. On the Board of Directors, honor and respect for the man, Dr. Petrov, I say it from here, he probably watches, if he doesn't watch, they'll tell him, I respect him very much. He is the former mayor of the town of Kula several terms, former director and of the cult hospital, which was closed at exactly his time. That's different. He's very good as a man, but he's already at his age. He's alive and well for many years! However, he continues to be on the Board of Directors and I am not sure exactly what good advice and practices he imposes in hospital management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u206	Thank you. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u207	I agree.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u208	Okay, thank you. You're welcome. We continue with the next question by Mr. Toshev regarding the purchase of a car with high passability from the management of, as you know, a multiprofile hospital for active treatment. Petka "JSC" Vidin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u209	Is he gonna ask ten questions about this hospital?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u210	I do not see anything outrageous or funny in asking these questions to clarify the situation of the hospital. So far, we've talked about a lot of things at the hospital. I'm getting to a specific case now. Currently, the Vidin hospital has only three ambulances with specialized equipment that can serve patients with very serious diseases. In addition, there are only three haemodialysis vehicles that patients need because we know that the hospital is legally obliged to take them from their homes, treat them and return them to their homes in such cars. For reasons unknown to me, the hospital director has announced a procedure and has already finalised it and has purchased for the needs of the hospital's management car with high passability. That means an SUV, as usual. And since I'm from Vidin, she's not from Vidin, I'd like to inform people who are not from Vidin is an extremely equal city. The hospital's area of operation is in roads that are almost zero verticals. Who needs this car, and why exactly is such a car purchased? It is written in the motives, by the way, that they would ride with him if needed highly qualified specialists for giving advice to the treating doctors in the Vidin hospital. I think a car does a lot better work than a jeep.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u211	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. Minister Moskov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u212	Are you on a helicopter? Only Boyko travels by helicopter.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u213	No, in my private car.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u214	Honourable President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Toshev, in connection with a letter received at the Ministry of Health concerning the purchase of a car with high passability from the management of the Hospital "St. Petka" city. Vidin, an opinion was requested from the Executive Director of the company. In response, the Director shall state the reasons why the Board of Directors imposed a decision on the medical establishment for the purchase of the car in question, namely: - As of December 31, 2013 MBAL Sveta Petka АД, Vidin has a total of 10 cars, of which only three are of residual value, and the other cars are used up. Those are accounting terms. A car is provided by the Ministry of Health under the Tuberculosis Programme and is used only for purpose, and a car is for service. - The car used by the management "Reno clio" was manufactured in 2004, which significantly increased the cost of its maintenance and was raised with a waste. - With the available transport is served the population of the district and are transported from and to their homes every day about 40 patients. This is the dialysis you were talking about. - For consultations and medical examinations and treatments specialists are required to be transported from Sofia, and there is also a need to move seriously sick patients for specialized treatment to Sofia, which is risky with the available outdated transport equipment. - The shortest route to Sofia is through the Petrohan Pass, which route is often preferred than through Vitinya due to frequent repairs and diversion from the main road. I'm talking about the answer to the hospital. These and other similar reasons have motivated the management of the hospital to analyse the state of the fleet and to take measures to purchase an appropriate car that is effectively functional and to be used not only for business purposes but also for services where necessary the operation of the medical establishment. Following an expert assessment of the technical condition of the fleet by an independent expert and a report with a proposal from the transport manager, the Board of Directors of the company at its meeting of May 2014 decided to purchase a new car. After fulfilling all the legal procedures, the medical establishment has concluded the lease contract for the Great Wall Hover H6 car. The monthly payments for the payment are BGN 1314,40. and with this amount, in the opinion of the Executive Director, the financial situation of the hospital is in no way difficult, not only for business purposes but also for activities related to overall medical care. Here to say that I will seek from the hospital's management a detailed reference to when and how it was used for medical purposes and will give it to you again because I am sensitive to administrative expenses. In conclusion, just to say that the need to purchase a car for the needs of the medical establishment is a matter of the competence of the company's operational management, which is decided by the Board of Directors. It is not sought and it is not legally required the consent of the principal to ask me what my attitude would be to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u215	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Toshev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, what you have said repeats what I have asked you in the motivation to the question. The truth is, and it is already forming that in a few million, about 10 million, we never found out what the hospital's duties are, several tens of thousands of leva are really not much of a problem for loading the hospital's financial situation. The problem, however, is that it really happens to be purchased, and you didn't say it quite clearly, but buying things that have nothing to do with the hospital's medical activities, and not having aspirin in the hospital, I think that's not good. And whatever we say, however we comment on it, this is the situation at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u217	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. Mr. Minister, will you take advantage of your right to dodge?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u218	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u219	Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u220	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! After more than 140 questions by MPs for several weeks cannot be included on the agenda, after the most embarrassing issues are postponed with different primos, with the absence of ministers, by placing them in this part, which will never be on the agenda, today the majority is applying another tactic to six questions about one hospital.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u221	Seven.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u222	No reason I said he didn't ask about the roof alone. And is there also a conflict of interest, dear colleague? Therefore, Mr President, I ask you to have an extraordinary day in which to address very current issues which are deliberately postponed. And the second time you do not allow six questions to a representative of the majority on the same subject, because it is ugly, except that it is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u223	I don't see how this has anything to do with the way this works.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u224	There's a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u225	What's the connection to the way we conduct it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u226	I'll tell you what the connection is. Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u227	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Chairman, please, both you and the others from the management, when you ask questions so stubbornly, to declare business interest. It's a clear business interest because this hospital is stolen. It's very stolen! And when things are put in order, it starts to ask why this contract, why this firm, why invasive cardiology... Let the D.A.'s office, let all the authorities handle this. But to use the parliamentary tribune to make pressure for business deals with the hospital is the theft of the health of Bulgarian citizens, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u229	Mr. Mikov, you know very well that an obligation to declare or lack of conflict of interest is required on any occasion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u230	It's good to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u231	It's good to do, but it depends on the person who speaks on the stand. I can't urge everyone to do something that's written down to do two things. Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u232	Because today I have no right to a personal explanation, I will use the procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u233	They weren't in the way they used to be. Go ahead, you go ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u234	And here it should be written that I do not have any personal, business, business, social, economic, friendly [[a line from MP Mihail Mikov]] I have no relationship with anyone at the Vidin Hospital. I have no relationship with anyone at the State Hospital. I don't know the owners.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u235	In invasive cardiological.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u236	If someone is not controlled, it is good to put order, because someone is not controlled, perhaps under some active influence.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u237	I hope that by using the procedure in the manner of conduct...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u238	Personally, I declare that I do not know the owners of SBAL invasive cardiology. She doesn't have a name. This one, first. Secondly, it is unacceptable for us to be attacked because my questions have been asked for three months and are not in any violation of any rules, but precisely the position at the beginning of today's control to ask Mr. President, this and to you...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u239	You finally say something to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u240	...and to the leadership of the Assembly in today's control in accumulated I do not know how many questions there, three identical questions to Minister Angelkova. Three exactly the same questions on the left side of the room. That's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u241	Don't confuse us with Attack. So what if we sit on the left side?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u242	Order, please. The next question is from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev on the lack of the medicinal product Herseptin for the treatment of cancer. Here you are, Mr. Kadyev, for the exhibition.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, after the absolutely non-essential question whether the hospital in Vidin should buy a high-speed or low-passing car, because, Mr. Toshev, my wife is there and if you go to the village of Plakuder, Vidin, without having a high-passing car come and call me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u244	Mr. Kadyev, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u245	Don't bother the MPs and the minister with absolute nonsense. Not to mention that the high-pass vehicle will probably recover VAT, while the other one they would buy will not recover and will cost them more. We put this aside and move on to the essential question about the medicine Herseptin, which is a medicine for one of the most severe cancers - breast cancer, and is far more important than any high-passing car. Dear Minister, my question is a result of a signal that I received from an oncology patient. I was alerted to the lack of Herceptin medicine, which is vital for cancer cancer cancer. In the specific signal we are talking about the Hospital for Active Treatment "St. Marina." Varna, from which they state that the medicine is missing and does not give information about a possible date on which it will be available. The price of a single dose on the free market is 3 thousand. £700. It's a sum that's impossible for the vast majority of the population. Each failure to take the medicine puts the patient's recovery at risk and largely makes therapy meaningless. In this regard, please answer the following questions: First, what is the reason for the lack of the medicinal product Herceptin in the Hospital for Active Treatment. Varna? Secondly, are there any other medical facilities where there is a lack of this medicine? Thirdly, what amount do the Ministry of Health and Health provide for the purchase of this medicine, and what part of patients' needs covers this amount? In other words, what part of them rely on their own funds and what part of the budget? Fourth, what measures will you and the Ministry of Health take to ensure the timely access of all patients to the necessary medicines so as to ensure the best possible results in the treatment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u246	Thank you, dear Mr. Kadyev. Minister Moskov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u247	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kadiev, in connection with your letter concerning a signal for the absence of the medicinal product Herceptin in the University Hospital. Varna, I'm telling you this. The medicinal product Herceptin, 150 mg and 600 mg/5 ml, with a single INN, is authorised in Bulgaria under a centralised procedure under Regulation (EC) 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council for the treatment of HER2 positive breast cancer and metastatic stomach cancer. The same is included in Annex 2 of the Positive Drug List and is paid by the NHIF outside the price of the clinical path or clinical procedure of the hospitals in which it is administered to the needy patients. In other words, this is not part of the costs of hospitals that can be contractable or not. The hospitals are simply mailboxes through which they pass, the med is discharged and the Cashier then pays for it. In connection with the signal you received, the Ministry of Health has requested an explanation from the Executive Director of the University Hospital St. Marina. Varna, for the lack of Herceptin in the medical establishment. According to the provided by Prof. Georgieva information The medical institution provides that medicinal product for treatment of HER2 positive breast cancer in accordance with the provisions and rules in force under a signed contract for medical activities with HROC Varna. Requests for delivery of the medicinal product shall be made on a monthly basis to the wholesaler designated by the Commission. This was provided on 1 April 2015, and the first quantities were delivered on 3 April 2015. Following discussions with the trader, the remaining non-excessed quantities of Herceptin were delivered at a later stage. At present, the treatment of all patients in need is provided in full volume by the hospital. For 2014, the National Health Insurance Fund paid for the medicinal product Herceptin an amount of 28 million. 66,000. £820. The funds have covered the needs of the patients of 100% paid are all prescribed, allocated to the patients and reported by the medical institutions. Particularly at the University Hospital "St. Marina" for 2014 NHIF has paid 1 million. $241,000. BGN 317. Herceptin administered to 53 patients. In the first quarter of 2015, NHIF paid the sum of 340 thousand. BGN 894. in the medical establishment for that medicinal product. In the Ministry of Health, as well as in the NHIF, there are no reports of problems with the provision of Herceptin in other hospital care facilities in the country. Outside of that question, I'll allow myself to say two sentences. Along with another medicine, Herceptin is the second most cost-effective position on the Case. There are certain areas in the country where there is a huge concentration of a percentage of the Cassata's expenditure on this drug compared to other regions of the country. At the moment, the Ministry is doing an analysis of the fact that there are places where the positive women, that is, HER2, exceed the world average rate of such positivity of the relevant type of tumor drug, which does not in any way change the policy of the Cassata, at any such request, to make this thing available. Is there a temporary lack of the drug in question also hidden in something else? In a neighbouring hospital in Varna, I had the opportunity to say it last week, the authorities of the police and the prosecutor's office found that it was about the following: Herceptin is listed to patients, the Cashier pays it, then this Herceptin is sold somewhere else. I can't tell if there's a connection.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u248	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Kadyev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u249	Dear Minister, the patient I'm talking about is a woman from the village who is not a person who will take her medicine and sell it and so on. Herceptin is an ampoule that is given once every 21 days. In the words of doctors who have spoken to this woman, any dose delay by more than 15 days may make the treatment meaningless. In its case, the dose delay is 40 days. So if St. Marina told you that everything was okay with their patients, they lied to your eyes. Everything's fine right now, yeah. I've spoken to the woman today. There are doses at the moment. In fact, the most important question from now on is not what happened in the previous 40 days. That they lied to them, lied to them; that someone must have sold something or done something. What I expect to hear from you is to ensure that you no longer have this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u250	Thank you, dear Mr. Kadyev. Minister Moskov, please come in for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u251	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kadyev, I don't just guarantee, but there is really no such problem. If such a problem in some minimum time interval. e.g. between the 1st and 3rd, about when they say the application was filed and the delivery occurred, this is not because of the policy of the Ministry, the policy of the Casa, uncertain funding. The overall problem is neither have I time nor maybe now is the time: what therapy, what patients it is written in, what quantities, whether all these quantities are used for treatment, whether these drugs are the quantities that are declared to be imported into the country are for Bulgarian patients or are related to parallel exports. The problem is comprehensive, but the guarantee is clear: the policy of the Ministry, the policy of the Cassata provides the treatment that they have prescribed in relation to their competence the relevant doctors from oncology There's no reason why the cancer patients shouldn't get the therapy that their doctors thought they needed. I guarantee it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u252	Thank you, dear Minister. We are going to ask the National Representative Maya Manolova about the policy of the Ministry of Health for the payment of hospital care. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Manolova, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u253	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, you are definitely the Minister, who in the early days of the government of Boyko Borisov-2 raised the flag of reforms. We have listened to all grand tales and intentions, of which so far, thank God, only one has been realized in practice, unfortunately with a negative sign, the introduction of the notorious methodology for allocating money to hospitals. Thanks to this methodology in just one month you have managed to achieve the results that have not been seen for other health ministers, you have left the patients without medication, the cancer patients without treatment, the hospitals are gradually piling up debts, and the patients are piling up anger, going from hospital to hospital, finding out where there is one with no limit left. Of course, those who have money pay. The others are waiting. In our previous opposition activity, we have failed to convince you that this methodology is unfair, that it makes it difficult and literally denying patients access to medical care. In this you have not been persuaded by the doctors or the word organizations or the people who have gone out on the street, but today in connection with your notorious methodology for distributing the money in hospital care, I have for you bad news and for the citizens a good news. What doctors, word organizations, patients, the opposition could not convince you, the Supreme Administrative Court has told you by order of civil case No 5462 of this calendar year. With this order, the Supreme Administrative Court stops the limits of hospitals. If you are not informed I think this is news that should cause your interest. The famous methodology that twisted the hands of hospitals and patients is suspended. This means to translate it into an understandable human language that hospitals can now spend on the activities they perform!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u254	Bravo! [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u255	I mean, what you're proposing, even according to the Supreme Administrative Court, is unacceptable. And because obviously you're having fun, I'll tell you what he thinks of your methodology, which is...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u256	Mrs. Manolova, the three minutes are up! Please ask your questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u257	I'm done. Namely, this methodology makes it difficult and delays medical care and can cause significant and difficult damage to patients. This is the assessment of your activity. The patients gave it to you, the doctors gave it to you, and now the court gave it to you and stopped your methodology. And my point is, what are you going to do now?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u258	Thank you, dear Mrs. Manolova. Minister Moskov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u259	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Manolova, I don't know. It is nice to be repeated quite often from the platform of parliament, what you have said: "And now, ladies and gentlemen, hospitals will be able to spend! " Well, that's a happy thing to say. That's what it's all about, isn't it? Okay. Just knowing what the point is, because I don't think that's the point. I can, of course, answer specifically your question regarding the methodology. Of course, each one of us is a methodology, not mine, it is a methodology agreed between the management of the Casa and the management of the Medical Union with the signatures of both organizations. So much for what doctors think of the methodology. Whether patients should be intimidated by the methodology in order to maintain margins in profits of medicines, non-profit activities and so on is also an issue on which I will not argue with you. You, even though you are politically defending your own people, know very well that this is the case. To say the following, at no time has the methodology caused any harm to health. Let's say this: The Cashier's Supervisory Board decided because there were two thin moments in the methodology. One was related to the Cashier's desire and through the methodology to calm down, to limit public spending in some medium European borders from our contributions to expensive medicines, so the supervision of the Casa made the following two decisions. The first decision was to remove and centralise the money paid by the Oncology Drug Treatment Fund, each birth... the payment of births, payments for hemodialysis and payments for the invasive procedure... the procedure is in the intensive care unit No 9. It's for patients who are in a coma, on apparatus ventilation and so on, with the clarity that this can't be lied to, you can't label who's giving birth, who's on dialysis and so on. At no point did the methodology limit a woman's ability to give birth where she chooses. Speculation on this topic has been suspended and, I hope, forever by the decision of the Cassate. Separately, the other problem, which somehow arises, which is already objective, was related to a non-compliance related to new activities at the end of last year and at the beginning of the one revealed by hospitals. Then these estimates, given to 95% of last year's hospital spending, did not record at the beginning of the year these new activities that a hospital is developing. They didn't report any activities that hospitals had stopped developing because there were cases like this. On this basis, the Cashier's Supervisory Board has decided, the analysis has been done and for each of those hospitals that have such a discrepancy, I have seen from the Casa manager already these estimates, they have approved funding from the Casa Supervision, respectively the 25th will be decided and the budgets of the hospitals will be adjusted with the emerging activities and their budgeting. That is, none of the methodology has in any way harmed or damaged or enabled any patient to be treated where he chose. If we talk about the fact that all the patients and all the doctors are satisfied only when there is no control over the spending, the National Fund is us, you know, through taxes and insurance is paid everything that is stated, this is not a philosophy that I share. She doesn't work in any place in the world. There for no reason, neither a court nor a representative of the people nor anyone can afford to say that the security of public finances in terms of a real result of the work is linked to damage to anyone. I'm telling you again, we spent all these years without control. If these spendings were effective, as you claim, and should continue, then perhaps our health performance should have improved. It is obvious that spending money in this way does not lead to improvement of health, the ergo system needs to change both as a structure and as a way of financing. I hope I answered your question, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u260	Thank you, dear Minister. For two supplementary questions please come in, Mrs. Manolova. You have two minutes in total.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u261	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, you clearly do not understand the situation you are facing, both you and the Cassata and the doctors and the patients. The order of the court is an assessment of your activity. The opposition is not the author of this methodology. The methodology was adopted by Decree of the Council of Ministers. For the first time, the Supreme Administrative Court suspended an administrative act which lays down the rules for financing hospitals, with reasons that this administrative act of the Council of Ministers makes it difficult to provide medical assistance and can cause significant and difficult damage to patients, which means that there are no rules at the moment. The action of the rules that you have adopted has been suspended. At the moment, there are no ways to distribute the money to hospitals. This is an assessment of your activities separately from the assessment given to you by the patients, doctors, MPs, including those from GERB, who were blaming you yesterday on the Health Commission, including the mayors of GERB, who have gone out on the street to protest your ideas. My two additional questions, and I expect you to answer and what you will do with the financing of hospitals are, of course, related to two other grand intentions of your own to merge hospitals and close oncodispansers. Only today in Shumen 2000 thousand. people have signed against the closure and infusion of the dispensary in Shumen at the Multiprofile Hospital. You know, you would have been a valedictorian minister before 1989, because there were such educations back then. Somewhere I've written them down. District Hospitals, all in one! In the current market conditions in which health is also functioning, what you are doing is really amazing and you are about to get on your feet and patients, and citizens, and doctors, and MPs from GERB, and mayors from GERB, and all reasonable people in the country who believe that healthcare is one of the most important social systems.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u262	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u263	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Manolova! To the first question, let me say that with the texts which, hopefully, next or next week will finally enter the Chamber, the Health Insurance Act has, in essence, ceased, so that if this is not clear, it becomes clear. Nor has anyone been happy with a limit-related methodology. This is what we have inherited, this is what we must manage from the point of view of the correction of public finances. I wasn't the guy who broke his shirt here a month ago about the government budget deficit being overrun over a loan, was I? Do you want us to have a common logic about everything? Otherwise, it's about the important matter you said. I don't know what you mean by market conditions and modern trends. If you walk a little further from the center of Sofia, you will see that every single trend is not, well, any legislation, any reasonable political thought is directed that the hospital complexes should be multiprofile, with the opportunity to respond to complex treatment of patients, and few in number, because this is an extremely expensive occupation, requires complex treatment and a real reason for this. No one, for any reason, has any intention of shutting down any activity related to oncology or anything else. What is proposed on the website of the Ministry and is about to be approved in the Council of Ministers, in Parliament and so on, that is to say, your will is important, is related to this: when the huge percentage of these former dispensaries are in the buildings or in the courtyards of multi-profile hospitals, what is the reason, if I, God forbid, get cancer disease, I cannot use the full capacity of the multi-profile hospital with all the equipment, with all the personnel collateral to prepare me a common treatment algorithm linking the power of the two units, and I need one activity to be carried out in my dispanser, then to be discharged, another activity to be carried out on me in the hospital, and then my observation to be carried out by a third structure? That is, the admission of an environment called a market or whatever you would call it, where the patient is like a small animal in a jungle, wandering between different individual institutions that have created some kind of comfort and hold on to it, without a clear algorithm, without a clear path, without a clear direction of its treatment, issued by one hospital, with the epicrisis must go to the other, then in the third for healing and for procedures for the same disease, is something that I do not accept. In this case, I'm not interested in the director's opinion of any of these hospitals. I am interested in whether, in your opinion, it is better for patients to receive a complex service related to the possibility of a multi-profile hospital with all its parameters of equipment, competence, human and personnel, to realize, or do you think that patients should continue to enter and exit from different medical facilities within the framework of the treatment of the same disease? That's the change I want to make. If you don't agree with her, we just won't get along.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u264	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Manolova, you have the floor for expressing respect for the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u265	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, I would like to give you an absolutely well-intentioned advice on the following actions you will take, including the closure of the oncodispansers and their merger in hospitals, to listen to the opinion of the specialists of the people working in these dispensaries who have managed them in the last 10, 20 years or more who have had a look. And what I said about market conditions, I think it's very simple. Why is a dispensary that is well managed, which, by the way, is a complex centre, is not it? A complex oncological centre, which means that it provides a complex service if it is well managed and has good financial parameters, what is the interest of patients to be connected to a hospital, which thanks to your and similar methodologies has accumulated 20 million obligations? You know, the experiments you've been doing, I've been trying to find some logic in them. What you have done so far, and what has been, thank God, suspended by the Supreme Administrative Court, is to change the principle that introduced your predecessors 15 years ago, namely the principle that the money follows the patient. You changed this principle as follows: the patient follows the money because the patient is looking for a hospital that has money to pay for his treatment. As we all know, the money is determined by the officials, your employees in the Ministry, and those in the Health Insurance Fund, and it turns out that the money goes after the clerk, which may provide comfort to your employees, but ultimately works against the patients. Moreover, I warn you of something else, there is serious tension against your next experience with the introduction of several packages in the health insurance system, because people have already understood that your objective is once again linked to money, namely the diseases that will be fully financed by the Health Insurance Fund, to be limited. That is, the continuation of the market principle: who has money is being treated, who does not have a waiting or simply is not being treated, there is no way to comply with the required principle by your government: accessible and quality healthcare. I really advise you to listen to what your experts are saying. Listen even to what the opposition tells you, because your political path after the launch has gone down in a hurry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u266	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. The next question is from the National Representative Vladimir Toshev on the management of the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment, St. Petka "St. Petka" AD, Vidin. It is a good thing that you declared no conflict of interest, even though you do not have such an obligation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u267	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u269	Once the procedure is completed, I'll give you the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u270	It's never too late, you have time. I have a few more questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u271	Mr. Toshev, do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u272	I have a few more questions for Mr. Minister, and they concern tragic incidents that ended with death at the Vidin hospital. Since I didn't have the opportunity to address you before in the procedure, Mr. Minister, and it was a conflict of interest, if you wish, check the state angiographer who was purchased for 1.3 million. lv. with your money, i.e. with ours, the taxpayers, all Bulgarians, which company has exactly completed the order and whose company is it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u273	Is that your question to the Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u274	No, no.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u275	Ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u276	Yes, I will, Mr. Chairman. With regard to the management of the hospital, Mr. Minister, do you know what the composition is? There, according to my information, I hope it is not true, but I hope that I have not been lied to by the first job of the economic director of the Vidin hospital, in such a difficult economic condition, belongs to a young lady to whom I would not like to mention the name. After that, I don't know if you have and how many piaras you have, but the Vidin director has piari. In addition, it has a department manager, is it a sector, is it a directorate, I have no idea, of European projects, without implementing any European project during its management in the hospital and so on and so forth. My question is: what is the management of the hospital and what attitude will you take, because there even the prosecution intervened in terms of improperly spent money?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u277	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. Minister Moskov, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u278	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Toshev, I will allow myself to break the Rules for just one idea and to say: when you change a system, Mrs. Manolova, you change a healthcare system from a state in which practically everything is subject to cash payment, legally or illegally in the hospital, you want the socially significant diseases, those of whom we are massively ill, to be valued and the rules made so as not to be paid by any Bulgarian citizen, that is, against these diseases it does not matter whether you are rich or poor, and to call this in the way you call it, is really cynical. Excuse me. Mr. Toshev, the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment in Vidin is currently managed by the Board of Directors, as follows: Dr. Violeta Ilieva Dochkova In this Chamber, the Board of Directors was entered in the Trade Register on 8 January 2014. During the term of office of this management of the Ministry of Health no changes have been made so far, by me, to the Board of Directors of the medical establishment. Managing Director of the medical establishment can only be a person with an educational degree "Master of Medicine," respectively dental medicine, with a qualification in health management. Dr. Violeta Dochkova is a medical master's degree and holds a degree in health management, a master's degree in specialty.. Public health and health management................................. and meets the requirements laid down in the Law. For the other members of the Board of Directors there is no regulatory requirement for their education and qualification, as well as for both to have experience in the field of health. For the other things in the hospital administration you say, the formal answer is that the Ministry as a principal has no authority to appoint administrative and other staff. It's a matter of operational management. However, I will request a report on the amount of non-medical administrative personnel and will see if this is the subject of any waste. Otherwise, from the point of view of the hospital management's qualifications, you must have seen in the draft Law on Medical Institutions, consider it a provocation on our part, we must really very well clean up, perhaps the board of directors, and do we need to introduce a certain qualification and a certain profile there?! These are things that the law has not regulated so far. I hope that the people's representation is actively involved in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u279	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line is Vladimir Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u280	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for the answer kit we developed today for the dialogue we had. I want to tell you that we are only concerned about the health of Vidin citizens and about the jobs of health workers in the state hospital, because private cardiology has already lost its staff. That's where they were fired. The important thing is that you and I come to the right conclusions once we find out what the facts are about this issue. We need to find the reasons and get to the right conclusions, because the Vidin hospital is the only one on the territory of Vidin region. On other occasions of your previous colleague, I have said that including your colleagues died because there are not enough quality conditions for treatment in Vidin. The doctors are wonderful, the medical staff is wonderful, but unfortunately they are not responsible for the leadership they have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u281	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. A hole? You won't take advantage. Come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u282	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is in the manner of conduct, introductory, with one sentence. Without questioning the right of any MP to ask whatever questions comes to mind, thinking that they are important to his electoral area, yet I think that somehow asking two the same questions at the same time and allowing them to be allowed to parliamentary control is a bit much! I'll quote you...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u283	Your procedure is in the manner of conducting it, and you are talking about how the questions are admitted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u284	You have admitted now, at the moment, from the stand, Mr. Chairman, for example, a question about the Board of Directors of the Multiprofile Hospital, and the last question was about the management of the Multiprofile Hospital. It's like the board isn't the board or the board isn't the board. Next time I expect Mr. Toshev to ask questions by name for each one of the Board, if possible also in the same sitting, also eight minutes, so that we can calmly leave time for the opposition to ask their questions. Mr. Chairman, please don't let these things happen! We simplify, with an apology, parliamentary control and turn it into a meaningless dialogue on topics that could be summarized with two questions, with the corresponding answers, or as policy questions, and not for each case to be a separate question asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u285	Mr. Ermenkov, I would agree with a procedure in the manner of conduct, if you'd paid attention to me why I allowed Mr. Minister to make a duplicate after asking Mrs. Manolova. Then I would agree that I have committed a breach, but when there is a corresponding order in which the questions are asked, you know that everyone follows the Rules. All the rules of procedure have been preserved. From then on, there's nothing else I can do when I'm in session. The next question is from the National Representative Slavcho Atanasov on the eradication and fate of the specialized hospital in pneumatic-physiacal diseases for active treatment in the city of Plovdiv.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u286	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! The Pulmonary Hospital in Plovdiv is an institution with more than 70 years of history. It treats not only tuberculosis patients but also patients with other pulmonary diseases from all over southern Bulgaria. The hospital has an extremely well-prepared team of specialists. It is equipped with the most modern equipment in the country for pulmonary diseases. It is surprising that the closure of the hospital is at the request of the mayor of Plovdiv Mr. Totev. The idea is to close the hospital and transform it into a department of the University Hospital St. George, for which 1.5 million were inexplicably invested. lv. The only argument for the closure of the hospital is that there is a debt of 3.5 million. lv. The hospital to which pulmonary diseases are transferred has much greater debts than 70 million. lv. Other health establishments in Bulgaria have even greater debts. Does that mean they have to be shut down?! Dear Minister, my questions to you are as follows: have you met with the hospital team after repeated insistences? Second, on what basis is the laboratory of microbiology of the hospital "Kudoglu" transferred to the much more indebted hospital "UMBL" St. George?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u287	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Minister Moskov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u288	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Atanasov, on the occasion of the question received by the Ministry of Health regarding the eradication and fate of the specialized hospital for pneumo-physiatric diseases for active treatment in the city of Plovdiv, I would like to inform you: The hospital is a single commercial company with limited liability with 100% municipal ownership. The property rights of the municipality as sole owner of the capital are managed by the Municipal Council in the city of Plovdiv. The medical institution has been granted authorisation for medical activities by the Ministry of Health 30 August 2012, with diagnosis and treatment of pneumo-physiatric diseases and outpatient follow-up of the subject contingent on the grounds of art. 46 of the Law on Medical Institutions. In accordance with art. 51, p. 6 of the Health Services Act the Minister of Health may withdraw the permit to carry out the medical activity after a request has been made by the medical institution for suspension, to which a decision of its owner has been applied, in this case the Municipality of Plovdiv, the Municipal Council. The termination of medical establishments established by municipalities shall be carried out after the consent of the Minister of Health..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 54, p. 3 of the Law on Medical Institutions. At the moment, and from my conversations with the municipality, I've found that there is no such intention. No documents have been submitted to the Ministry of Health with a request for consent to the closure of the hospital. In relation to the checks carried out by the RZI and the labour inspections carried out, Plovdiv, related to the activities of the medical establishment, where changes in circumstances and non-compliance with the issued permission to carry out the activity, the Ministry of Health has asked the new hospital manager Kudoglu. 50. No documentation has been submitted at this time for the modification of the authorisation. To conclude, I believe that the debate on eradication or non-liquidation or transformation should take place on the territory of the Municipal Council, Plovdiv, who owns the medical establishment. The country has carried out appropriate actions to provide adequate medical assistance for the treatment of patients with pneumopthasiatric diseases, including for the treatment of patients with tuberculosis. With the opening of the Phtysiatria Department and the transfer of the TB Control Laboratory property of the Ministry to the University Hospital St. The provision of quality medical services is not only for the household conditions for patients and staff, but also for better access of patients to all specialized structures of the university hospital, given the level of competence of the medical institution. This will not violate patients' access to stationary specialised pneumo-physiatric aid, as there is adequate epidemiological surveillance, timely diagnosis and effective treatment of tuberculosis in the region. Patients with non-specific pulmonary diseases are also served by the Hospital of Plovdiv. Mina (in Bulgarian) Ltd., Plovdiv, according to the data of RZI. I mean, because today, before I leave, I wanted to be up-to-date in the answer to your current question, I want to say that the new pneumatic-Physiatric ward in St. He's already working, he's accepted patients, along with the equipment. My conversations with the municipality and the mayor are not related to upcoming closure procedures, but to an infusion of the previous hospital in one of the municipal hospitals, but let me really not know which one. It is important to me that there is no violation of the ability of patients to be treated in the territory of Plovdiv and the surrounding areas. For the other really owner of the hospital is within his power to decide. I think that you, as an influential person in Plovdiv, can participate in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u289	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Atanasov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u290	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Minister, I understand the difficult situation that you yourself are in. True, the hospital is municipal and after all the principal of it is the Municipal Council, but that is where the difficulty comes from, because a 70-year-old institution created a hospital just for pulmonary diseases, understand, from the time of Tsar Boris with 27 decares wonderful park, at the moment this hospital was transformed into a hospital. George is in a unit that can't even carry out screening. I'll just tell you, from the Rhodopes, the Smolyan collar has 4,000 miners. These miners will now have to travel to Sofia to conduct their examinations. Not to mention tuberculosis as a disease which, according to the European directives, is now being revived. This hospital, which was created precisely,................................................. for pulmonary diseases during the term of Plovdivski 2007 - 2011, provided with the best modern technique, at the moment in practice, Mr. Minister, you can visit it, it does not function. So I can say this. We will do everything possible after changing the current mayor, with your joint efforts to restore this hospital and there to treat so many people who have pulmonary diseases. Because it's really a shame these days to break up the palace and build a hut. That's the truth. Since the hospital is on extremely attractive terrain, it seems that's why she has an appetite for it. I guarantee you that if it is closed down my forecasts always come true for the city of Plovdiv, in just a few years on this beautiful terrain, something completely different will occur on this beautiful building. Probably a private health facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u291	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u292	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Atanasov, I share your concern for possible discomfort for patients. Indeed, it is a concern that must be claimed, but in this case it does not have its own grounds. St. George's Clinic. It is really very modernly equipped, extremely well equipped and equipped. It allows the entire contingent to be taken by patients with specific pulmonary diseases such as tuberculosis. I do not know, indeed, in the context of this dispute concerning the way of the municipal healthcare organization in Plovdiv, there are things that I do not know, but I will not know either. Support from the Ministry will have any idea of the municipality, which is related to clear structuring. In this case, let me say, the entire staff was also my commitment, which I made to the mayor of Plovdiv, to all medical staff from the hospital "Kudoglu" was guaranteed the conclusion of the contracts of employment in the new ward in the hospital "St. George. If there is a gap with this, anyone who has asked doctors to go to the new ward again, it is secured really with modern equipment, really with modern infrastructure, I guarantee it, as the principal of the St. In this regard, we act in sync with the municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u293	Thank you, dear Minister. After we finished the question of the hospital "Kudoglu" in Plovdiv, we also finished the questions to the Minister of Health. Let us thank him for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to questions to Todor Tanev, Minister of Education and Science. The first question is from the MP Kalina Balabanova about draining huge amounts of EU funds through fictitious student internships in the municipality of Varna. Here you are, Mrs. Balabanov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u294	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, a scandal has recently erupted in the media space regarding the draining of huge amounts of EU funds under the Project "Student Practices." A case was solved in the city of Varna with a hair salon, which according to documents has provided internship to hundreds of students from all over Bulgaria and de facto such practices have not taken place. Only this hair salon was taken from about 75 thousand. lv. under the Project "Student Practices." Turns out the owner of the hair salon had contracts with six universities without knowing about it. As a Member of the National Assembly elected by Varna District, I was contacted by many students who were willing to become part of the program, but for a number of reasons were not approved by the Project. I remind you that the project "Student practices" was created for students in order to support their future and professional realization. My questions to you are: who is the team under the project "Student Practices"? What kind of work have they done so far? How are they selected and what are their rewards? Who's the project manager? Who is the management team of the Ministry of Education and Science responsible for spending European funds, and how is control being carried out? Why, since the Ministry of Education and Science's team has found out about the abuse committed, has not signalled the relevant authorities and has not taken specific action? I would be grateful for really specific answers to the specific questions asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u295	Thank you, dear Mrs. Balabanov. Minister Tanev, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u296	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Balabanova, I take your question quite responsibly and seriously because it is a concern, of course, of the whole system, of all parents, of course, of students, and especially of us at the Ministry, because we are responsible to these students and, of course, to the effective use of European funds. As far as the specific question is concerned, I suppose you mean the investigations that took place in bTV in January, I think it was in bTV, I can brief you on the following. The Ministry of Education and Science does not in this case participate freely or involuntarily in the draining of this money. Secondly, all the measures have been taken and, thirdly, the money has been recovered. Now the details. You know what the system is, we have a web system, employers make a registration in it. For participation a check is carried out in the Trade Register, higher schools may set additional requirements for employers. Students apply through a purpose created their profile and by being approved by the employer and concluded a contract with the higher education institution, conduct practices in a duration of 240 hours. Within the autonomy of higher education institutions they are solely responsible financially from this point forward, which does not mean that the Ministry has no right to control and that is exactly what has been done. The date is 13 January 2015. A member of the team of the Ministry of Education and Science Project has conducted this team, about which you ask me, project "Student Practices", a conversation with a representative of the company from the city of Varna, who has reported that it is difficult to register in its web system. The team immediately found that the company already has a profile in the web system, there are contracts with higher schools and contracts of students to participate in the practice. Until the situation with this duplication is clarified, the company profiles, the profiles of the persons posing as its employees and mentors on the matter, as well as the students who signed documents for the practice in this company, are immediately blocked. So far, so good. During the next three days the team of the project "Student Practices" is in place and does its own research in relation to the manager of the company, the higher schools with which they have a contract, and so on. From the published annual financial statements in the company's legal and information system APIS and from the scanned copies of the contracts with six higher schools, a small difference has been established, but it is enough that small difference is actually fraud, in the stamps and the signatures placed on behalf of the represented person. The facts were described and sent to the manager of the company and to the affected universities as they bear this responsibility. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm moving on. The employer has been advised to report to the competent... The Ministry of Interior is entering... I can't finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u297	If you want to finish in the back, if it's a little bit what you have to present?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u298	Let me just say that the money I have right now is $4,000. £425. is the European funds already recovered. It's about them. According to our estimates, the total value of all expenditures of higher schools is 16 thousand. BGN 049. Some of the students have also recovered the scholarships they received, which means that at risk there are about 3000 BGN which will be restored and are probably already recovered, I have not checked because this morning I land from another place, or from the budgets of the higher schools - not from the state budget, because they bear the immediate responsibility, or from the persons who organized and implemented the fraud scheme. Everything is known to the relevant authorities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u299	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Balabanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u300	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I must admit that with every passing parliamentary control I have a question for you, I am becoming more and more confused. The amounts that you just presented to the people's representation, if I have heard correctly, are close to BGN 7000. In the exposition of my question, I explained to you that it was 75 grand. lv. In addition, this particular case with the hair salon in Varna is not the first scandal about the project "Student practices." You remember in 2013, when more scandals broke out, one of which, by the way, was quoted by you just now by the registration web system. During the time of Minister Ignatov his political advisor, rather her student, won in 11 months two and a half million contracts with the Ministry of Education and Science and not a small part of them on this particular project. I, as MP, have information that the companies that were launched during Mr. Ignatov's time continue to lead the project and continue to drain funds. I took out articles from 2013 with the companies and their property, the way they won an order, the amounts were a scandal. Yes, you correctly noted - the next scandal broke out at the beginning of the year. Is it possible that the Ministry of Education and Science does not give enough concrete and correct answers about what is happening to this project? The questions that I have asked you, not a single name, who is involved in this project, who is leading it by the Ministry of Education, what salaries they are taking, you cannot give amounts to which the total amount is BGN 7000 but to lack much larger amounts. I'm sorry, but this is not serious. Indeed, here, at the end of his speech in the manner of leading Mr. President, although it is not his fault, to ask the ministers to respond specifically to our questions. I think there are enough intelligent people in this room not to be content with allies and small talk. There are specific questions, ministers have plenty of time to prepare their answers, with specific answers. Do not underestimate yourself, colleagues, demand this from the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u301	Thank you, Mrs. Balabanov. The procedure in the manner of conduct was used to justify everything, and now we accept that, only we must not forget that between Minister Sergey Ignatov and Minister Tanev there was another minister. Will you use your right to dodge, Mr. Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u302	I was asked about something specific, and I was in charge of it with some numbers. A written answer has been sent to you. Now I'll tell you later, because the answer is long. The project "Student Practices" is from 2012. His head from May 2013 to today is Valeri Kotsovski, who is a longtime employee of the Department of Finance of the Ministry and is an expert in the field of public finances. The actions of the persons who have used publicly available data from the Commercial Register for the purpose of abuse of Student Practices have been revealed by the project team before the first media reports about this. So I've answered quite specifically, and no one in this room has lied, nor have I stalled or anything else! If you have any specific data, as you say, Mrs. Balabanov, I ask you to give them to me immediately and I will pass them over to the SANS, with whom I am in ever better relations.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u303	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the National Representative Boyka Marinska on the status of eligibility for the holding of executive positions and participations in the general meetings of the higher schools of the lecturers, who are over 65 years of age. Here you are, Mrs. Marinska, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u304	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! In Bulgarian academic practice, there is a serious problem in clarifying the status of the lecturers, who are over 65 years of age. In accordance with art. 328, para. 1, t. 10 of the Labour Code these persons retire at the age of 65. On a proposal from the Cathedral and the council of the main unit or branch, after a decision of the Academic Council, the labor contracts with the habilitated persons who take up the position of Professor, when they reach the age of art. 328, para. 1, t. 10 of the Labour Code may be extended for a period of one year, but not more than three years, but for the habilitated persons who are employed by the Associate Professor and for a period of one year, but not more than two years. This is the provision of § 11 "Transitional and final provisions" of the Higher Education Act. For the purposes of the Law, however, such extension automatically transforms the employment relationship from one for an indefinite period within the meaning of art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1, t. 1 of the Code, in a temporary one under the order of art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1, t. 2. In order to be a member of the General Assembly or to hold a senior position, the relevant habilitated lecturer should work on a basic employment contract, according to art. 27, para. 1 of the Law on Higher Education. For the purposes of § 4e, t. 1 of the Additional provisions of the Law on Higher Education a basic employment contract is only the employment contract concluded on the basis of art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1, t. 1 of the Labour Code. Thus, persons who are 65 years of age, although no doubt in employment and legal relations with the relevant university, cannot be members of the General Assembly of the relevant school, because according to art. 27, para. 1 of the Law on Higher Education it consists of representatives of the academic staff of a basic contract of employment. According to art. 31, para. 1 of the Law on Higher Education for Rector, Dean and Director of Branch or College are elected habilitated persons who after the election take up the position on a basic contract with the higher school. According to art. 26d, para. 4 of the Law on Higher Education the same requirement applies to the heads of departments. In line with the above, for example, the practice at the Technical University of Sofia is formed, where the mandates of the former Rectors were terminated at the age of 65. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In other higher schools, and in a small number, the general meetings included habilitated persons over 65 years of age, while such persons also occupy senior academic positions from the above mentioned. At the risk of avoiding a diverse and contradictory application of the Law and possible lawsuits, which have already been introduced to attack a decision at the general meetings of higher schools and acts of their bodies, mandatory uniformisation of these practices is necessary, which can be done by issuing a mandatory instruction of the Minister of Education and Science to higher schools, specifying the annexes to the provisions of the Higher Education Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u305	One minute you're running out of time, Mrs. Marinsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u306	I'm formulating the questions in just a few sentences. The first question is: will the Ministry of Education and Science draw up a letter with the decrees to the higher schools to align these practices? The second question: what actions does the Ministry of Education and Science intend to take towards those holding senior positions in the Bulgarian universities in conflict with the requirements of the Law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u307	Thank you, dear Mrs. Marinska. Mr. Minister, you have five minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u308	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the House! Dear Mrs. Marinska, your question is completely correct, I fully understand its importance after more than 30 years at Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski. Indeed, your findings and the review you have made are absolutely accurate. However, I doubt that such a provision could have the necessary weight. I am referring, i.e. duplicate or furthering the law that exists at the moment, and I am talking about the Higher Education Act in this form that we have, with all the incompleteness of the matter, because it can again be found in such trials. It is unlikely that a provision can filter out these unpleasant consequences. We mean after meetings and many advices that we have received on this issue that the norm of § 11 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Higher Education, which you basically mentioned, do not rearrange the basis under art. 328, para. 1 of the Labour Code, which you spoke of, in another way. They're not rearranging! This means that the habilitated professors in higher schools can remain on a general basis of work and after the age of 65, if so determined by their employer. The extensions under Paragraph 11 of the Transitional and Final Provisions do not make the contract concluded with them unlimited into a fixed contract. So I'm giving you the opposite interpretation. You say what I morally agree with, but there's also the opposite, and that's used in court. We share the statement expressed by Prof. It is a legal opinion that the use of the word "society" in § 11 of the Transitional and Final Provisions does not define the extension as a clause for a period of time, but as a time during which the contract of employment continues its existence and effect, as concluded between the parties on the basis of art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1, t. 1 of the Labour Code indefinitely and as the principal within the meaning of § 4e, e.g. 1 of the Additional Provisions of the Higher Education Act. Either way, the question is obviously not well clarified in the law. For years the academic community has suffered from it, it has come to court cases, to a variety of conflicting exits from there for one way, for others in other cases in reverse, under the same starting circumstances. This leads to a time for the Higher Education Act to receive a very serious reform in this area. Perhaps I will insist, as far as the ministry is concerned, not a provision, but simply to be with you, Mrs Marinska, what you propose, I will support. I hope the Ministry agrees with what you're proposing, because we find it appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u309	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Marinska, please come in for two supplementary questions for which you have a total of two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u310	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, from my life and administrative experience, I know that when I ask three lawyers to interpret some text, I usually get four opinions. Therefore, let's stick to the Higher Education Act and the Labour Code every change to a fixed-term contract, its extension by some period of one, two or three years turns it into an unlimited one or three years. Simple and clear! It follows that according to art. 10, para. 2, p. 7 of the Law on Higher Education the Minister exercises control over the higher schools of compliance. Since it is not respected, it is within your powers to carry out an inspection according to art. 10, establish a protocol with recommendations and a time limit for their removal. If they are not removed, in case of non-compliance with these recommendations, it is your right to propose to the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency the withdrawal of the accreditation of the higher school. One more thing, one more question. Minister, are you familiar with the judgment of the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg, the second Chamber, of 18 November 2010, in joined cases, not to quote them, where the Court directly finds that the employment contracts of the habilitated persons over 65 years of age are not timeless, as the Ministry of Education insists, not you, but your lawyers, you are not a lawyer. This automatically means that these persons are not under a basic employment contract within the meaning of the Higher Education Act, cannot participate in general meetings and take up managerial positions. I will now provide you with a copy of the decision of the European Commission, give it to your lawyers and ask them to interpret it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u311	Thank you, dear Mrs. Marinska. For an answer, Minister Tanev, come in, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u312	Mrs. Marinska, we have a legal department, a directorate that's been operating for a long time, and that's how she interprets things. Like you said, I'm not a lawyer. But what I do know is that even if these people aren't in this department, we have to have a directorate. There will always be room for interpretation, not in the ministry, but outside it, until it is established precisely enough. Thank you very much for this 2010 document you gave me. Indeed, we will try to reevaluate this based on your words and we will be in touch. I intend to be in touch and answer you in writing on these matters. If there are any options, I guarantee that we will use them. We will do our best to use them. But, again, you will probably agree with me that we should not go into interpretation, in such a broad interpretation, which brings individual cases into court. The law should not be like this, we must clarify it, now is the time and place when these reforms are being made. Some proposals made by Mrs. Marinska, the team from the Ministry will add on the basis of these documents, and let them put into a bill for amendment and supplement to no longer have these interpretations. Because the law is a law when it's accurate, not when it's a trial ground on a case-by-case basis. I'm sorry it's like this, it's welded and it's weighing on me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-15.u313	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Marinska, will you take advantage of your right to express your respect for the Minister's answers? No, you're quitting. It's 2:11. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourned. The next regular meeting is on 20 May 2015, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. Have a good weekend! [[PHONE RINGING]]
