ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u1	I shall open the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of the National Assembly, after the decision of the National Assembly yesterday on changes in the staff of the Council of Ministers, with an introduction. No 554-00-573 of 11 March 2015 Mr. Veselin Vuchkov, Member of the Parliamentary Group of GERB, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria resigns as a Member of the National Assembly with the desire to terminate its powers early. On the basis of art. 50, para. 5 of the Rules suggest that this be the first item of today's plenary day. Please vote on the adoption of such a decision. Vote 148 MPs: 133 against 6, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. But before we go to that point, we need to finish a little bit more from yesterday's plenary day on: THE PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY ANCETAL COMMISSION FOR THE FACTS AND FACTS RELATED TO THE ACTS OF STATE AUTHORITIES AND I recall: they were voted by the operative of the Draft Decision on the first three points of the creation of the Commission, the principle on which it is being built, namely......................................................................................... We are expecting a proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center, etc. 4 of the draft decision is written down:......................................................................................................................................................................... Therefore, I expect from the Bulgarian Democratic Center a proposal and proposals for the Commission's term. Here you go, mate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! On behalf of our parliamentary group as Commissioner, we propose Dr. Krasimira Kovatchka.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u3	Thank you, Mr. Filipov. From your group yesterday, it came as a project for a whole new proposal for change, and we haven't finished the vote, which is why, under this procedure, I am going to put this proposal to the vote right here. Please vote on Mrs Kovachka's proposal to be a member of this Commission. They voted 143 MPs: 134, against 2, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u4	Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Ministers, honourable Members! In relation to the incompleteness of t. 4 in the Commission's Decision on the duration of work, we propose that this period be three months in view of the complex subject which has been placed as the Commission's task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u5	Are there any other proposals, Members, on the duration of this Commission's work? I won't. I'm voting on it. 4 to be:.... is elected for a period of three months................................................................................................................ We vote. Vote 138 MPs: 135, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I now vote on the full draft decision with its name, its basis and its four points, together with the membership and the Presidency of Mrs. Atanasova. Voting regime to conclude in the third plenary session the subject of this draft decision. [[Heckling]] We vote on the whole decision. They voted 143 MPs: 140 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO TERMINATE THE POWER OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. Service project of: ? RESPONSIBILITY? terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends the mandate of Veselin Borislavov Vuchkov as MP from 24. election district, Sofia. Are there any MPs willing to take a decision on the draft decision? I won't. I shall put to the vote the presented draft decision of your office. They voted 143 MPs: 130, against 4, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. We move on to: - HEARING OF THE RESPONSIBILITY MINISTER OF THE COORDINATION OF EUROPEAN POLYTICS AND THE INSTITUTIONAL QUESTIONS OF BULGARIA'S MEGLE KUNEVA AND THE MINISTER OF THE ENERGY TECHNIQUE FOR SITUATION IN THE SITUATION OF THE DETECTIONAL AREAS AND THE COORDINATION OF THE STATE STRUTTURES FOR THE QUICK TRANSFER OF THE SITUATION OF THE SITUATION OF THE SITUATION OF THE SITUATIONS FROM THE DETECTIONAL AREAS AND THE COORDINATION OF THE STATE STRUCTURS OF THE QUICK. Importers: Mihail Mikov and Dora Yankova. - HEARING THE MINISTER OF REGIOAL DEVELOPMENT AND BLEGOSTER ON ACTS AND MEASURES PROPOSED BY THE STATE AUTHORITIES AND - HEARING THE MINISTER OF THE ENVIRONMENT AND WATERS ON THE EXPECTED PREVENTIVE MEASURES FOR PREVENTING THE MEDICAL AGE OF WATERS PRESENTED BY THE SNOWING OF THE EXPECTED REGIONS IN EXPECTED REGIONS. Exporters: Saliha Emin and a group of MPs. On yesterday, the Conference of Presidents agreed with the representatives of all parliamentary groups that the procedure should be common. I recall the way in which it should proceed, with the peculiarities that questions will be asked and answered will be received by one deputy prime minister and four ministers. Before that procedure, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members! As we will also discuss preventive measures, and no preventive measure is effective without the citizens' commitment, and, unfortunately, this is the problem the authorities are facing, I suggest that the forthcoming hearing be broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Radio and Bulgarian National Television.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u7	Mr. Anastasov, yesterday there was a proposal that points 1 and 3 be broadcast directly by the National Radio and National Television. We already have a solution. I hope the cameras are already on, and so are the microphones. The basis for the requested hearing of cabinet members shall be in art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 2 of our Rules. I would like to recall the procedure when the National Assembly proceed to the hearing which the proposer for a hearing makes a presentation of the questions within 5 minutes. In this case, I have just recalled that there are two proposals for a hearing. One is from Mr. Mihail Mikov and Mrs. Dora Yankova in a total of 5 minutes, the other is from the group of DPS also in a total of 5 minutes. The persons heard shall inform the National Assembly of the questions to be heard within 10 minutes. After asking the questions, the floor will be given to the Deputy Prime Minister and the three ministers to answer within 10 minutes, after which each of the parliamentary groups is entitled to two questions, and the MPs who do not belong to a parliamentary group total to one question, each question within 2 minutes to the individual persons heard. Hearing persons shall be responsible after asking each question. Parliamentary groups shall be entitled to comment on the responses of the persons heard within 5 minutes of asking each question. The request for a hearing of Mr. Mihail Mikov and Mrs. Dora Yankova was first submitted at the time. Who will develop the request for a hearing within 5 minutes? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u8	Madam President, ladies ministers, Madam Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! On the basis of art. 110 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly asked to be heard by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Issues, as well as Ms Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, about the situation in the distressing regions, above all in South Bulgaria, Smolyan region, part of Pazardzhishka, Kardzhaliska and Haskovo region. To remind the Members of the National Assembly that, according to the requirements of Chapter 7, according to the Law governing how the state operates in disasters, the Council of Ministers shall form state policy in the field of disaster protection and that a general guide for disaster protection is being implemented, that there must be a National Strategy to reduce the risk of disasters, that every ministry must have such a plan and therefore have a policy in that sense. Along with that, the National Early Announcement System, yes, was applied one week before that the code red. I think the Ministry of Environment and Water was in shape and warned the institutions. We, ladies and gentlemen, are facilitated by the fact that perhaps at the second meeting of this National Assembly we were listening and debating how the state will function in winter conditions. However, when we asked the question from BSP left Bulgaria: let's debate the functioning of the country in winter conditions in general, as a single mechanism interinstitutional, we brought this into: Is there money for winter maintenance, or there is no? Well, we have a new budget. There's enough money in the budget to clean up. The money has increased, I congratulate the government, for the municipalities for winter cleaning, especially in the Rhodope municipalities, but the problem has arisen. The problem is more than seven days Bulgaria, part of Bulgaria, much of Bulgaria is in distress. For more than seven days, citizens have been asking themselves a painful question: "Is there a state?" There are settlements in Bulgaria, which for more than 300 hours are deprived of bread, electricity, water and life-saving medicines. There are places where medical authorities do their job, but there are places where that cannot happen for objective reasons. Can we, however, fellow Members, here in this House, also address the government, say and give everything to the elements of nature? Can we, and is it fair, shift the burden of responsibility of the government, ours, to the local authorities, to nature, to the elements? I don't think so! That's why there's a country, and that's why it works. I don't want to think if what happened between 50 and 70 cm of snow, in certain places, yes, the sleeps were much bigger, it had blocked the whole country. What would we say then? In parallel, I would like to share with you very responsible, we ask, not because it is an obligation of the opposition. We ask because thousands of Bulgarian citizens are waiting for an answer to the question: Who and when will help? Who's gonna back them up? Who will take over the overall coordination? In parallel, we also ask: where was the National Crisis Headquarters and who was in charge of it? Yeah, there was no Home Secretary. He was retired. The vice-president of the Council of Ministers, as we simply call him, what he did interinstitutionally, to bring together the institutions, to partner, to be visible to complement, to be able to talk, to be able to take adequate measures. Yes, we saw ministers who go to the regions, but more useful in these cases was the interinstitutional organization. I am done with this "I have addressed the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister for European Affairs " where was the headquarters? I would like to address the Minister of Energy why seven days so many people in more than 100 settlements do not have electricity? Why Bulgaria for seven days in distress? Is that acceptable, Mrs. Petkova?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. From the DPS, from the importers, who's gonna take the floor? Here you go, Mrs. Emin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Pavlova, in the last six days our country has been facing the challenges of heavy snowfall, which practically blocks life in several regions, including Kardzhali, Smolyan, Haskovo and Pazardzhik. Although it is not unusual for this time of year, the snow has become a real natural disaster, leaving thousands of our compatriots without elementary living conditions. For six days a number of towns and villages in southern Bulgaria have been cut off from the world without access to medical care, bread, electricity and water. Sick people and mothers were on the verge of survival, relying only on specialized equipment to pave the way for them to lifesaving medical care. It even came to the ridiculous situation in which a mother had to be transported by helicopter so that she could have her child in Ardino municipality. Everyone, even for the most impartial observer, has had the feeling that the measures taken to deal with the situation are insufficient and do not lead to the desired results in time normal for our time. From many places in Haskovo, Smolyan and Kardzhali we have received information that road cleaning is mobilized not specialized equipment with suitable equipment, but old and other agricultural equipment. This confirms the fact that destitute municipalities do not have the opportunity to deal with the situation themselves due to the lack of resources and specialized high-cost equipment. However, in the event of disasters, we must not forget that the main responsibility lies with the state in the face of its institutions. Colleagues, I'm far from the idea of trying to find someone to blame for this situation. Much more correctly, it is faced with it, to join forces to help people purely human and stately to solve the problems they face. However, I cannot help but point out that in all of us there is a feeling of poor coordination, untimely measures taken, of missing opportunities to counter the crisis. The weathermen warned about heavy snow a few days before they arrived. It is difficult to imagine that our country does not have the resources needed to deal with challenges of this nature. The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has proposed a hearing to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works on the actions and measures taken by the state authorities and institutions in relation to overcoming the country's distress situation and, in particular, in Kardzhaliyska, Smolyanska and Haskovo region caused by heavy rainfall in the last few days. Madam Minister, what have you undertaken to assist the local authorities and the population of the affected municipalities, and at what level is the interaction between the local and executive authorities? We also want to hear today from the Minister of Environment and Water about the envisaged preventive measures to prevent the harmful effects of water caused by the melting of snow due to an expected surge in temperatures in the affected areas. In this regard, dear Mrs. Vasileva, you probably do not need to be an expert in water management to know that the accumulated snow in March is a ticking time bomb. Unfortunately, we have seen many floods in the past months. With so sharply falling and rising temperatures, human instinct tells us that in March the expected sharp rise in temperatures and snow sleeps that we are now struggling with will very quickly become a water element and will sharply increase the flow levels. In this regard, we would like to receive information from you about the measures taken by the Ministry of Environment and Water, especially an analysis of the volume of water reserves in snow as of today, information on the management of all water sites, including the issuance of prescriptions for increasing the volume of dams in Bulgaria, so that a tidal wave of snowmelting can be met and information about all other measures taken by the Ministry of Environment and Water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Emin. There is now an opportunity to answer the questions asked, in charge of Petty Officers First Mrs. Kuneva, within 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u12	Good afternoon, everyone! Thanks for asking. I think we owe it to each other to tell who has done what and to what extent to let the Bulgarian citizens know, including from the stands of the National Assembly, what we have managed to do. I'd like to divide the answer to my question into two parts. On the one hand, this will be a report. Each one of us is prepared with figures, facts prepared with documents to say how many snowflakes, what are the standards in the European Union, which roads are cleaned first, which are the second, which are the third and so on, to compare where Bulgaria is in a situation where there is a disaster and how it is doing. On the other hand, however, beyond these facts, I would like to draw attention to something that may actually be the more important part of this dialogue, which I hope will come between us. It is how we cooperate and how they manage to coordinate authorities in a time of crisis, including within the Council of Ministers. So, first of all, the environment was extremely heavy because of the heavy snowfall. A very heavy snow, many broken trees, a cut-off power grid that left isolated and powerless thousands of people. We're talking over 40 long-range aviaries, and we're talking high-mountain areas. In places because of the heavy snow and heavy snow, over three metres of sleep formed. Fallen trees have made snow cleaning extremely difficult. I would like to emphasise that at the very first moment, when it became clear that this situation was coming and is about to deteriorate, we had immediately convened the National Crisis Headquarters and headquarters on the ground. MoEW Directions, the Ministry of Interior ordered their territorial structures to inform regional governors and mayors of municipalities of the expected dangerous phenomena. It was also ordered that regional and municipal disaster plans should be introduced as necessary in the part of the "Surveillant snowfalls, snowstorms and icy snowfalls." That is, Mrs. Yankova, we will be able to compare the plans at this time what was in the general plan, what was in the local plans. Now is the time when we can take into account whether these plans have actually been made properly and if we have actually been able to fulfil a point by point everything provided for in the plans. But as the first steps, the push of the plan and the gathering of the Crisis Headquarters, it happened and it happened immediately! It was March 6th! I would like to draw particular attention to the active role of Minister Vuchkov, who was at this moment a minister who resigned. We were in a constant relationship, but more importantly, I think this was the right step, and there were several public statements in which we could all make sure that Minister Vuchkov, regardless of his resignation, is in his post and does what is necessary for coordination from the point of view of the Ministry of Interior. He didn't give up on these duties for a moment, he didn't hesitate at all. Secondly, apart from the fact that the plan is moving forward, it has moved on. Thirdly, in a situation that was not normal, the resigned Minister of Interior had no shaking in coordination and in fulfilling the commitments of the Ministry of Interior. This is a sign of overall political stability. Bulgarian citizens can rely on the government. A very good coordination was created between the different ministries. Joint teams were clearing fallen trees from the snow and helping sick and destitute people. Crisis headquarters were constantly exchanging information with the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and other interested departments. I would also particularly like to draw attention to the fact that we have seen how the state acts in the face of power, but also the state in the face of society as a whole. I particularly want to highlight the role of the Bulgarian Red Cross and of mobile operators, i.e. the private sector and the non-governmental sector. My colleagues from the Regional Ministry, the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Environment and Water will state in detail what is done. I will make a summary of the efforts we have made. Since it has moved on to the next difficult moments that may be waiting for us with the melting of the snows, I would like to say that yesterday at the Council of Ministers, we have adopted measures for possible future floods in connection with the melting of the snows and given the poor weather forecast. A few words for a summary. Even before the snow fell on March 6th, as I said, the structures were on full alert. On 7 March the Central Operational Headquarters was activated and an Action Plan for heavy snowfalls and flood action was introduced; the plans of regional directorates in Smolyan, Haskovo, Kardzhali and Pazardzhik were introduced; distress situations were announced in Lucky, Velingrad, Sarnitsa, Galabovo, Mineral Baths, Batak, Peshtera, Yakoruda, Ivaylovgrad. I contacted some of my colleagues in the European Commission who are working in this area, and if it had become more difficult, we were ready to ask for help from neighbouring countries as well. Over 2,000 employees of the Ministry of Interior participated from the affected areas, I stress 2000, plus 1250 from other regions of the country. The advantage was given to provide medical care. I agree that the case of the baby who was transported by helicopter is serious, but this is actually a happy outcome. When there is no other way to help, there is a helicopter available to the Bulgarian citizens. This isn't the first time this has happened. I mean, in many countries in such disasters, it is precisely a helicopter to make an emergency landing and take a sick one that is part of the normal emergency situation. The advantage was really given to medical care, including transportation to hospitals. He reached them with light and heavy chain equipment, provided food and medicine. Separate joint teams of the Ministry of Interior, walkways and energy companies were working on removing the accidents in the power grid. It's very heavy snow! Minister Petkova will summarize the situation at the moment and the efforts made to restore the electricity supply. Separately, the Ministry of Interior assists in rescue operations by providing snow-cleaning machines. The people of Fire Safety and Fire Safety helped clear the trees, pull out damaged cars. I would like to thank the media, who were also at their post and passed directly from these difficult areas, and in this way it can be seen what is really being done on the ground and stressed that there are people with courage, persistence and professionalism who during this time were working and saving other people. Rotor snowplows from other areas of the country were preceded. The efforts of the authorities were extremely difficult, but still Smolyan district over 100 machines, Haskovo over 90, Kardzhali 58 machines. That's why Mrs. Pavlova will be speaking at her exhibition. The army. I can give you a detailed reference literally day by day. The summary: military formations have been helping with people and machines for clearing snow since 7 March; food and helicopter surveys have been carried out, which I think has also been very helpful; supplies of food and medicine in the Ardino region also; evacuated was a mother, as we said, and other seriously ill ones. I think we should tell ourselves what we have learned from this crisis situation and, thanks to the measures taken, of the plans implemented to see how to do better next time. God forbid, but I agree with Mrs. Yankova that we should be ready. These are areas that need special and detailed coverage of the lessons learned from this crisis situation. I'm not talking to you because I'm a deputy prime minister in the government, but really objectively speaking, this time coordination was really good. I hope that every time it gets better, but at this point, my political assessment is that the government has dealt with coordination.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. Mrs. Petkova, you have 10 minutes to express your opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u14	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, first of all, I would like to thank you for your question, because it is really important. The subject is extremely important, it concerns an extremely large circle of people. That is why this issue is very timely. For this reason, I will allow myself to present to you and to the Bulgarian public on days what action the Ministry of Energy has taken, of course, together with colleagues from the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Interior, the local authorities, the district managers, we all work as one team and continue to work this way. I will now introduce you to the concrete actions we have taken on each individual day. On 7 March 2015, according to information from the electricity system operator, 44 are the power lines. At the end of the day after the intervention of the ESO 9 teams are restored power lines. The emergency substations are 15 substations of the ECO. According to the electricity distribution companies without power on 7 March in the territory of EVN there are 890 settlements. 800 subscribers. 156 emergency damage control teams are in operation. On the territory of CEZ 264 are settlements without power supply. 745 subscribers are powerless, respectively. On the territory of Energo-Pro 25 are settlements that are powerless. Overall, on the first day of the disaster, the total population without electricity was 1179 and the subscribers were 271 thousand. What happened at the Mini Maritsa East on the same March 7th? The emergency plan of the company was put into effect at 16.30 pm on 7 March. Substation East was flooded, the substation that actually provides the power supply of the mine transport network and is really a very important object from the mines. Due to the significant disturbance of mining activities, the deteriorated situation and flooding of some of the mining facilities were limited mining activities in Ruzdnik 1. Due to the transfusion of the dam "Kovachevo" on 8 March the following day, evacuation of people and equipment was carried out in the area of the train station and at the loading stations of the mine "Troyanovo 1" respectively. On 8 March 2015, according to the information provided by the ESO, 35 power lines were offline, as well as a new substation in Kazecevadova. At the end of the day 13 power lines were restored. According to the electricity distribution companies in the territory of EVN there are 713 settlements and 186 800 subscribers. That day 152 emergency crews were working to remove the damage. On the territory of CEZ 103 are settlements on 8 March without power and 16 844 subscribers. On the territory of Energo PRO 11 settlements are without electrical power. On the 8th of March, the dike of the Sazleika river broke in the region of Galabovo near the Galabovo substation, which is 110 kilovolts away. In the meantime, the substation shut down its power with 110 kilovolts and the area of Galabovo remained powerless. The substation was powered by 20 kilovolts from the substation in the town of Stara Zagora. This power supply allowed part of the population of Galabovo to be supplied with electricity in due time. In view of the crisis situation and on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 2 and para. 2 of the Energy Act and Article 2 of the Energy Act. 3, para. 1 and para. 3, p. 1 of Ordinance No 10 on the order for the introduction of a restriction regime, suspension or limitation of production or supply of electricity, heat and natural gas was issued my order for the introduction of a restriction regime for the supply of electricity from 0 hours on 9 March 2015. On 9 March 2015, according to the information of the ESO, there remain 22 aviaries, as well as a new accident at Samokov substation. By the end of the day, seven power lines were restored. According to the electricity distribution companies, there are 537 populated meats with 107 180 subscribers on the territory of EVN. One hundred and fifty-six emergency teams continue to work to repair the damage. On the territory of CEZ, the settlements without electricity on March 9th are 66, the subscribers are 6409. On that same day, the emergency regions were organized by helicopter of the Ministry of Defence, which took a view from the air of the interrupted power lines in the region of Kardzhali and Haskovo, as well as other areas, of course, which was extremely important and useful to really see where the accidents were and to be able to take the most rapid and adequate action. On March 10, 15 of the power-generating system operator's power lines were installed at the end of the day following the intervention of the ESO teams, five of them were restored. According to the electricity distribution companies in the territory of EVN 473 settlements are without electricity and 75 000 subscribers respectively. On this day, 161 emergency crews are working to remove the damage. In the territory of CEZ 23 are settlements on 10 March without power and respectively 1118 subscribers. On 11 March of the ECO system, the information is as follows: 10 are the power lines aviated, at the end of the day after the intervention of the teams three of the power lines have been restored. According to ERP data, without electricity in EVN's territory at 1:00 yesterday 423 settlements are without power and 60 762 subscribers respectively. That day, 192 emergency crews were working to repair the damage. By 16.30 March, on the territory of CEZ there are no more settlements without power and all subscribers have electricity. With regard to the emergency situation in Mini Maritsa-East, I inform you that the reconstruction works in the pit of Troyanovo 1 are going according to the established timetable. The ruptured dikes of the internal water heaters are rebuilt and are further strengthened. The overflowing of the dam, which happened on March 8th, was stopped. Work is also being done on the drainage and restoration of substation. East, the restoration of the tracks also goes according to schedule and depending on the weather conditions are expected to restore the whole movement on the railway line on Saturday and to normalize the supplies for the TPP. What's the status at 6:00 yesterday? The power lines in the ESO system are 7 and one substation of the 15 on 7 March, which were in emergency condition. According to EVN data at 5.30 yesterday, 407 are settlements without electricity, including 58,580 subscribers. What's the status of today at 8:30 in the morning? On the territory of EVN the settlements without electricity are 393 and respectively the subscribers are 57 230 subscribers without electricity. Currently, 660 people work in the territory of EVN. These are 32 teams of the power system operator and about 519 people from EVN emergency teams. There is absolutely joint work in a team and our power system operator teams will remain in place until it is necessary and until the power supply is fully restored in all settlements. This, ladies and gentlemen, is short of information, statistics by day and what we have actually done as the Ministry of Energy together with other colleagues. I would like to point out the following. I appreciate your concern. It is indeed a difficult situation, but I want to assure both you and the Bulgarian citizens that the concern of the state is really very great. Besides concern, the state also demonstrates very fast, adequate action. We really worked together as a team, everyone together, and I think the results are there and we will continue to work until the final removal of the damage on the ground. But the coordination that was created, we were in constant contact with colleague Pavlova, Vasileva, with Mrs. Vuchkov, with Mrs. Kuneva, with civil protection we are in constant communication with the mayors of the settlements. We're meeting support from everyone. I am using this case specifically to thank the 101st Alpine Battalion of the Ministry of Defence, because colleagues have been extremely useful in these difficult areas for our teams. The snow sleeps are really huge. You know, Mrs. Yankova, in the high-mountain areas it is very difficult to get to the accident to remove it. I hope today, by the end of the day, if we have access to the Ardino substation and it is put into service, and people will be powered with electricity. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. I give the floor to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova. You're entitled to an answer for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I stand before you with the clear awareness that the consequences of the March storms in the districts of Kardzhali, Smolyan, Pazardzhik, Haskovo, the mountain regions of Pirin, the Rhodopes, Rila are yet to be analyzed. Fighting the consequences of this natural element is yet to continue, causing lasting negative damage to infrastructure, to the people who live in these regions. Even today, at this moment, when we in this House are discussing what has been done and what has not been done, there are still dozens of settlements and Bulgarian citizens who are without electricity, without water, without power and without access. However, I would like to assure you that the efforts of all institutes in the country in complete coordination were made so that in this situation prioritizing precisely with the care of the most urgent cases, the most needy, not to let people be in distress, there would be no people who did not have access to medicines, no people who did not have access to water, no food in all possible cases when, of course, this could have been done. Unfortunately, several people have lost their lives. That is why the lessons from the situation, we have yet to analyze the damage, yet to see what the damage is to humans, to animals, to infrastructure, are ahead of us. I am convinced that today, in this House, we must join forces on what more we can do and how. At the same time, however, I would like to point out that hundreds of people have been mobilized, are currently still mobilized, working in place in the snow sleeps. They've been working 24/7. They haven't had a day off. Additional machines from all over the country were mobilized, additional specialized equipment from all over the country. Over 950 machines specialized equipment worked in the territory of all regions where there was this natural element that had struck. Dozens of people work. That is why I cannot allow us to speak in this Chamber and hear accusations against these people that they do not work, that the state is not there, that it does not cooperate. Hundreds, tens of hundreds of people are in place. These are the employees of road support companies, firefighters, army colleagues, civil protection colleagues, energy companies are there, in place in snow sleeps, and I would like to thank them today for making efforts in the difficult task they are struggling with and coping with. Several concrete facts that I would like to share and respond specifically to the question of what the state has done and what actions have been taken by the institutions. With regard to Kardzhali region: after the declared code red, after the increased snowfalls, which first started in Kardzhali municipality, then Ardino municipality, then for the whole Kardzhali district and the declared disaster situation, in the whole area and throughout the region was directed additional technique. From the initial necessary equipment of 47 machines for the area, the area where there are more than 650 km of Republican roads, the cleaning of this heavy snowfall over 58 l per square metre of snow that has led to the increase and accumulation of sleeps up to a meter, a meter and a half, and in places and much larger, has led to the wetting soil, the wet snow on the trees made it extremely difficult to clean the roads, because even this specialized technique, even specialized rotors, combined machines and graders, which were provided in this area from all over the country, were hindered by the fallen trees of the roads. This led to the fact that in order to clear a kilometer of road, it took an hour, two, sometimes three to move the machines. The vast quantities of thousands of trees that fell on the area prevented the cleaning of roads from being carried out. However, 360 people were mobilized with chainsaws, including road stations, which helped our forestry colleagues so that these trees could be exported. But believe me, the sleepers are over two, three meters. All this made it more difficult to clean the road network. What have we done? Priorityly we started with the first-class roads in order to be able to be provided, as all the rules and requirements require, access to the municipal centers in Kardzhali and in Smolyan district was provided in all settlements on the first day of the worst and most critical day. As early as 8 December, roads were drilled to the district centers, near the district cities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u17	No, that's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u18	I hear you're saying that's not true. But let's make a distinction. We're talking about a breakthrough. We're not talking about these roads being able to move cars. We are talking about a breakthrough that will provide high-speed equipment, civil protection technique, emergency medical equipment to be able to deliver medicines, to be able to transport and transport needy citizens. Only on the 10th, only the last two days have we been able to open all roads from the Republican road network, which will be already passable under winter conditions. But at no time was it allowed on Republican roads to be unable to transport with a high-passable technique of medicine and the needy citizens. With regard to Smolyan district, I would like to say that on the territory of Smolyan region, a very difficult specific mountain region, which has access only and only in the direction of the road network, with small exceptions, the closure of the clean-up roads, the cleaning first of the huge wood mass that has fallen, after which providing the directions through the passes of Rozhen and Pechinsko, was provided with the transport of the most necessary means, including by providing generators to work at the gas stations, because there, in this region, there was a problem except for the transportation of heavy goods, due to the lack of electricity due to the lack of communication, including the lack of mobile connections were interrupted, the petrol stations could not provide fuel for the equipment of the teams not only the road-supporting companies, but the teams of civil protection, emergency teams to provide assistance precisely due to the lack of gas supply, including the lack of gas supply of gas stations, which could be provided for all the fuel. There's been a lot of talk about coordination. We hear criticisms, we hear comments from colleagues that the state was gone for seven days in small towns. That's not true. After it was secured, huge efforts were made to break through all the main directions of the Republican road network in the settlements in the district centers, over 120 machines specialized road maintenance equipment, rotors, fadroms and other special equipment were directed to the municipal centers. Since yesterday, teams of road support companies of the Road Agency have been working to help and support both municipalities and the municipal road network. We must not forget that, apart from those 1,000 km of Republican roads that are most severely affected in this winter disaster, there are still so many municipal roads in which municipalities have a commitment to ensure their maintenance activities. We understand that the technique is insufficient, we understand that working in these municipalities is difficult. That is why more than 130 machines have been redirected to the territory of all these areas to help with the clean-up. The cleanup is yet to come. Colleagues, you've all seen these pictures, they're facts. The sleepers are over three meters that we see that the machines are struggling with. Sleeping is more than anything we're talking about. We're not talking about 50 inches. The sleeps are over three meters, the twists are huge and all combined with the huge snow combined with the multitude of trees, the lack of energy, the power supply, all this creates prerequisites for the inability in these areas with a magic wand to clean things up and be opened. I assure you, that's what I'm saying, there will be many lessons. The snow is about to melt. This melting will further complicate the situation, because we expect landslides falling on the roads, we expect an increase in river levels. That is why I would like to say once again: thank you to all those who work, thank you to all those who responded. I want to assure you that the state is here, the state is in place. In such a disaster, the important thing is to make an effort, not to criticize each other, not to politicalise, but to unite together, to find a way to better synchronise, how better to work, not just to criticize. It's easy to criticize from this room, but if you come and see and go together, things look different when you're in place, when you're among the people, and when you see these sleepovers. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Pavlova. I give the floor to the Minister of Environment and Water Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva. You're entitled to an answer for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u20	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, fellow ministers! I would like to assure you, on behalf of the Ministry of Environment and Water, that everything I have said so far by my colleagues, namely the concern about the severe situation that has arisen in relation to the heavy snowfalls over the past days, the full coordination and synchronization of all authorities, all representatives of the state institutions, including the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence, as well as regional authorities on the ground, regional authorities, regional governors through the established organisation and work of local headquarters, as well as mayors. I thank them all for working together to deal with the difficult situation. With regard to the measures that can be taken to reduce the damage caused by a possible next flood, I would like to introduce you to the current situation at the moment. As you know, the Ministry of Environment and Water monitors the state of water and water sites throughout the country on a daily basis. In case of a complicated weather situation, the Ministry of Environment and Water shall activate the 24-hour operation of the operational unit which collects, summarizes and analyse the information received and shall take the necessary action together with the companies carrying out the technical operation of the dams and shall warn all institutions. This was also done upon receipt of information from the National Institute of Metrology and Hydrology before heavy snowfalls began. Everyone has been warned of this in order to be able to be mobilised so that all measures can be put in place to activate all authorities and authorities to deal with the situation. In connection with the disaster situation in the country, created as a result of heavy snowfalls, we also need to think about what will happen during spring snowfall. As you know, the situation continues to be complicated at the moment, especially in the lower currents of the Maritsa, Tunja and Arda rivers. In short, the condition. The level of the Maritsa River at Svilengrad continues to be coded orange on a warning. The same applies to the Tundzha River in the Elhovo region, which continues to be directly below the red threshold of concern, as forecast to maintain the trend of smooth decline, staying below the orange threshold. We also have increased attention for the Arda River watershed. That is why we have taken urgent measures and adopted a package of actions that must be taken immediately by all responsible institutions. As you know, according to national law, the competences of various state authorities have been created in relation to overcoming natural disasters. That is why, in the government yesterday, we made a decision to ensure coordination of all competent authorities to achieve optimal results in overcoming the consequences, in the event of a deterioration of the situation in relation to spring snow melting, because water quantities in most of the country are above the high water thresholds. Most of the country's soils are over-wet, which is a prerequisite for rapid formation of surface swelling. The snow cover in Rila, Pirin and the Rhodope Mountains, as well as the ridge of the Balkan Mountains is significant. At present, the available water equivalent of the snow is 175 to 225 l/sq. m for the regions of Rila and Pirin, for the Rhodopes from 80 to 125 l/sq.m, and on the ridge of Stara Planina from 60 to 125 l/sq.m. On this map I want to show you [[shows map of Bulgaria]] the designation of areas where there is the most abundant accumulation of snow masses. The possible snowmelting will create prerequisites for significant quantities of water that should be translated through the river network of Bulgaria and we should be ready. Therefore, the government has decided to establish an organisation immediately and to urgently take all necessary preventive measures and actions to prevent potential flood risks in the country, to prevent disaster situations and to prevent human health from occurring due to the upcoming spring snowfall. I will only mark the key measures that are part of the 14 package of measures adopted by the Council of Ministers. These are: dam owners and their operators to set up the necessary organisation to provide free volume so that we are sure that the dam levels are at the safe level; to ensure the conduction of river beds at a distance of up to 500 m after the dams; district managers, mayors of municipalities and districts to take urgent measures to ensure the conduction of critical sections of river beds and facilities along the river basins, in accordance with their powers; mayors within the settlements, district managers outside the settlements and respectively the irrigation systems to take measures to clean critical sections around the bridge facilities; the owners, the mayors of municipalities and the irrigation systems to take urgent action to strengthen protective facilities, if necessary; the Agency for Public Infrastructure to take measures to clean critical sections around the bridge facilities; the owners and users of complex dams and significant and strict compliance with and to take urgent action to strengthen theenvironment , ifnecessary; All such authorities and institutions shall be obliged to submit continuous information to the competent authorities, to disclose in case of critical situations so that timely and adequate measures can be taken. These measures, which I have quoted, come into force immediately after the decision of the Council of Ministers has been taken, and I have already sent letters to activate the implementation of the measures and put them into effect immediately since yesterday. In addition to what has been said so far, regarding the need to bring all possible prevention measures and actions, I would also like to quote several other measures adopted at national level on which we are working together with all the other institutions with competence in this direction. As you know, measures have several aspects. Institutional I believe that the past days have proved the really high level of coordination and communication in sync between authorities and institutions. The legislative texts have been prepared for a change in the Water Act to ensure better control over the technical condition of the facilities. Infrastructural as you know by decision of the government and order of the Prime Minister of the Republic were created interdepartmental working groups that clarified the ownership of 253 of the 268 dams, which were designated as such with unexplained ownership, while the rest were controlled by the district governors. At present, there are no deserted dams on the territory of the country. The information collected about dams in the transmission state is also now summarised. "Irrigation systems" conduct events under control and decommissioning. Intensified control, a series of measures regarding maintenance of facilities, non-illegal logging, overcoming the problem of pollution troughs of rivers, I have issued an order specifically for checks by the control authorities to prevent unauthorised pollution along the rivers, as well as control over the construction of flood zones. Not just that. With regard to the infrastructure measures to be taken, funds were provided in Operational Programme "Environment 2014" 2020. We have negotiated with the European Commission funding of 160 million. lv. for the new Priority Axis "Prevention and management of flood risk and landslide risk" which provides for the strengthening and rehabilitation of protective infrastructure and hydrotechnical facilities, the establishment of a National Water Management System in real time and the establishment of six centres for increasing the readiness of the population in the country. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Once again, I would like to assure you that the entire government, all competent authorities, are working together to address the challenges arising from disasters...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u22	...to face the challenges. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u23	Thank you. There's a procedure from Mrs. Manolova, and then we go into art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 2: Any of the parliamentary groups shall be entitled to two questions, and the MPs who are not members of a parliamentary group shall be entitled to one question in total, each matter within 2 minutes to the individual persons heard. Hearing persons answer after asking each question. Parliamentary groups shall have the right to express their views on the answers of the persons heard within 5 minutes of asking all the questions. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ladies ministers! In fact, by reading the text of art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 2 You have facilitated my procedure, but due to a misunderstanding in plenary and a hesitation in how many questions each parliamentary group is entitled to, and whether it has the right to summarize twice what the four ministers have heard, I would like to point out to you that the text of art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 2 says that each parliamentary group is entitled to two questions to each of the persons heard. That is to say, each parliamentary group has a right to a total of 8 questions, has a right to hear 8 answers, separately independent MPs. As it concerns two separate requests for a hearing, after the procedures have been completed, the answer to each of the parliamentary groups is entitled twice five minutes to draw its conclusions and conclusions from what the ministers have heard. I am simply repeating, as there is a misunderstanding in the Chamber which parliamentary group has what opportunities in this hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u25	You have fewer options in general, because you are less MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. This issue was discussed yesterday at the Chairman's Council when we adopted a decision for a joint hearing. There is no question about two issues from each parliamentary group to the heard deputy prime ministers and a general attitude on the subject. Since it is one and common in this case, we can bring the entire Chamber of the Council of Ministers, but we cannot set aside two days of plenary time for questions and answers. Let's get to the first question. In the order of the size of the parliamentary groups, from the group of GERB come, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u27	Madam President, ladies ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My first question will be to Minister Pavlova. I am charged with this commitment by the GERB Parliamentary Group because I am a direct witness to the situation in Smolyan region and a participant in the actions of the Crisis Headquarters, convened by the regional governor. At the risk of repeating what has already been set out by Minister Pavlova, I will ask after the Red Code by the responsible institutions has been known for expecting heavy snowfalls, what measures have been taken by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Road Infrastructure Agency to deal with road cleaning? What is the specific situation at the moment and how passable are the roads from the Republican and municipal road network? I do not want to think that opposition colleagues rely on this hearing to make political dividends. I believe that responsible parliamentary behaviour requires that we bring relief to citizens, that state institutions can deal with critical situations, even the size of the one created. I believe that it is indeed our common duty to create a calmness in the people of these regions, that they can rely on the actions of everyone involved in dealing with the crisis situation that are continuing so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u29	Dear Madam President, ladies ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs Daritkova, first of all, I would like to assure you that given the announced Red Code for heavy precipitation expected in the districts of Kardzhali and in Smolyan mainly, what we did was preventative. As early as Friday, on 6 March 2015, the teams were set up and urgent operational meetings were called to enable the necessary mobilization of equipment, of teams and preparation to ensure the maintenance of the roads from the Republican network in these two most critical areas, as well as for others, except Kardzhali and Smolyan, for the districts of Pazardzhik and Haskovo, as well as for Blagoevgrad region. The situation of the Ultimate was also complicated enough. What was done. The available equipment, as required by the contracts with road support companies, was provided, namely at least 58 machines for Kardzhali district and at least 90 machines for Smolyan district. All this was there. However, given the complicated situation, as I have already mentioned, as the soil is over-wet, the trees fall, we see that the poles fall, literally like chopsticks, this led to the need of the whole of Bulgaria from Shumen, from Varna, from Razgrad and from Burgas and Haskovo, to provide and mobilize an additional heavy technique to ensure the cleaning actions of the Republican network first, starting with the first-class roads. It's what we do. Once these roads are pierced and passable, at the moment all this technique is redirected to help the municipalities so that it can reach the smallest settlements. The most critical is at the moment in Ardino, where there are still 50 small settlements to which there is no passability. I personally spoke with the mayor of Ardino, who told me last night that the municipality in this mountain region has 5 machines available. That's why he's been rerouted from last night to extra machinery and equipment to help. The situation remains complicated in Sunday. There are also redirected teams to work and assist so that the roads can be fully accessible. I want to assure you that there is no place to which the teams cannot reach, including the so-called "Sleigh Sleigh Protection," although access, food, bread, medicine and all that is needed is provided in places with sleighs. As has been seen, where this is not possible, with the assistance of the Defence colleagues, with the assistance of the civil protection colleagues, helicopters and other equipment are provided and everything is being done to ensure that all teams at locations led by the regional governors, as leaders under the Crisis Headquarters Act, make efforts in maximum coordination of these actions so that there is no chaos. That was actually the most important thing we've tried to provide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u30	Thank you. Mrs. Manolova, please come in for the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u31	Madam President, honourable Members! I demand that you comply with the rules of the parliamentary Rules, which allow each parliamentary group to ask two questions to each of the persons heard. This is the constant practice of the Parliament when more than one person is heard, it is not usually accidental for each group to have the right to ask him two questions. I'm listening now that at a meeting of the Conference of Presidents, you have decided to jointly violate the norm of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u32	There were BSP guys there.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u33	...with arguments that these four ministers were a collective, were one, were four in one. These are four separate ministers with separate portfolios, with separate commitments, with separate responsibilities. Having asked two parliamentary groups to listen separately on two different topics, the most normal thing is not just to listen to them in plenary, but to be able to ask them specific questions. Believe me, Madam President, we have enough important questions that are asked by the people of the distressing regions who expect under direct control of them to hear their answers. I don't know what the four ministers are afraid of! I don't know why you keep them. Once they have come to parliament, the most normal thing is to have an opportunity within the Rules to ask them questions and they will answer from this tribune of specific questions rather than common fairy tales.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u34	You keep wasting our time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. For the last time, I am explaining that there is a collective decision at the Conference of Presidents, today at the collective leadership of this plenary. Each parliamentary group shall be entitled to one point on one subject, regardless of the number of ministers heard, to ask two questions and to take an attitude within 5 minutes. Question on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the BSP left Bulgaria
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u36	Procedure in the manner of conduct! [[The National Representative shall go out on the stand. Replies from BSP LB.]] Madam President, it is true that there is a collective decision to unite two questions, only that decision does not in any case repeal the requirements of the Rules of Procedure. As you can see, I came up with the Rules when it comes to a procedure in the manner of conduct. This procedure shall be conducted under art. 110. It explicitly states that the questions are addressed to the individual persons heard. This is definitely clear and is not subject to any comment. This means that since we have agreed to bring the two hearings together, we must by no means violate the requirements of these Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u37	That's right!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u38	There are MPs who have submitted the proposals for a hearing. According to the Rules of Procedure, they are entitled to two questions for each of the persons heard.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u39	Thank you, Mr. Imamov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u40	Dear Madam President, ladies ministers, honourable Members! My question is to Minister Petkova. Before that, however, I would like to say a sentence on the occasion of other ministers' exhibitions and to reveal to Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva a great secret. Mrs. Kuneva, wintertime snows, sometimes it is very heavy. Summer weather is hot and in June there may be downpours. Report this information in your planning. You may think that you have dealt with the disaster, but the people of the regions, from the Haskovo region, firmly say that you have done nothing. Furthermore, the mayors of small municipalities also strongly claim that the state is missing. You let them handle who can.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u41	Where are the municipalities?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u42	That's not an arbitrary statement from me. Also ask your MPs who were at a meeting Tuesday with mayors from the Haskovo region. My question to Minister Petkova is this. Will the energy system guarantee the normal work of the mines in the Rhodope region and of the mines in the energy complex of Maritsa-Eastern? Did you know that in Zlatograd, Madan, Rudozem and other areas the mines are flooded due to insufficient power? Now thousands of people, thousands of miners are deprived of their right to work. Perhaps for weeks there will not be restored the normal course of work. Will you ensure that the energy complex of Maritsa East will work normally and next week there will be no collapse in coal supply and collapse in electricity production?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u43	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. The question was for Mrs. Petkova, but Mrs. Kuneva was mentioned at the beginning. Come in for an answer, Minister Petkova. After that, Mrs. Kuneva will have a chance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u44	Dear President, dear Mr. Georgiev! I understand your concerns about the status of the Mini Maritsa East. I would like to assure you, as well as from my exhibition just now, it has become clear that we have reacted as quickly and adequately as possible. I speak to the state, the district governors and the mayors respectively. As early as March 6, 2015, after we received the information about an upcoming complicated situation, we sent the newsletter to the Ministry of Environment and Water, which contains information about the expected precipitation, we sent such a letter to the Mini Maritsa East and they took the necessary action accordingly. As I've already explained to you, at this time the mines are working normally, no problem. [[DPS lines.]] In the Rhodopes, in the same way. I mean, there was an organization with the miners from Madan and Rudozem, working together. We have done everything possible to get an electrical power supply in place as quickly as possible so that no such crisis situations can be reached. I think we've avoided this situation. At this point, I think we can't talk about a breakdown in the energy system. Once again, this is due to good organisation and coordination between the individual institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u45	Thank you. Mrs. Kuneva, you?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u46	Mr. Georgiev, since you have decided to give me instructions when winter is and when summer is, after all, you are a former Deputy Minister of the Environment, perhaps the conversation about climate change seems to you as part of your duties? I want to tell you in the order of reasonable conversation with you that what happened this March did not happen 50 years ago. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP LB and DPS.]] And for him, you just need to get a reference. Let me still tell you that it's not common... [[Extending noise and lines from BSP LB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u47	Please respect each other, colleagues! So, with calls from place to place... Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u48	Can I still say that a situation where there are 1205 signals for accidents that are: rescue of distresses Even in law, there are terms such as force insurmountable and extraordinary circumstances. So, please, let's really get to the point. We're perfectly well-intentioned with my colleagues. Anything you say when the disaster is over and appreciated, we'll be able to come back to you and say, "That's what we did well, that's not so good." Next time we will do things the way they are in the highest European standards. However, I ask that we demonstrate a tone that Bulgarian citizens expect from us. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u49	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, welcome, colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u50	Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will really stick to Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva's app. I'll ask questions on the ground. Dear Mrs. Pavlova, yes, you said that the public roads are being cleaned by priority: first-class, second-class, third-class and fourth-class, which are municipal. My question is of the following nature. In times of distress, we think it is most important to have coordination between all state institutions and municipalities in the face of mayors. All these days, I was in the Kardjali area. You visited the district of Kardzhali, the District Crisis Headquarters, met with the district governor and members of the Regional Crisis Headquarters. In the municipalities the municipal crisis headquarters, which are led by the mayors of municipalities, are responsible for the disaster situation. In this regard, during your visit to Kardzhali, did you make a meeting with some of the mayors of Kardzhali district because they are responsible for the situation by municipalities? There were some absurd situations, and if there were such coordination at first, they wouldn't have been. For example, on the way to Jebel, I think he's third-class, the Jebel Road Ustra - Pripek is cleaned, the machine returns, goes to clean another place, and then only on the fifth day again comes back to clean the way Jebel - Ustra - Dobrintsi - General Gesevo, who is only 2 km away from the first time that is cleared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u51	Thank you, Mr. Hajrula. For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hajrula, let us correctly note the distributions of the responsibilities of the institutions in the country. The first thing we need to say is that in such a distress situation, as you rightly pointed out, we have municipal crisis headquarters, regional crisis headquarters and National Crisis Headquarters. My commitment, as a minister responsible for the Republican road network, is to do everything necessary for regional road managements throughout the country, when necessary, and specifically for regional road managements in the territory of the municipalities in which there is snow, to carry out the necessary cleaning activities on first, second and third class roads. It's my job. And that is why in a situation like this, in a situation where we have crises and disasters, my commitment was to see if the teams were working on the ground, whether there are enough machines, whether there is enough work, coordination of the activities of maintaining the Republican road network. In the situation in the district of Kardzhali we saw that the machines were not enough, we saw that coordination between the different municipalities of this snow-cleaning technique was not good. That is why, personally with engineer Zlatev, who is the head of support for the whole country, we have joined this coordination. From Sofia, where eng. Lazarov led the headquarters, directed machines from all over the country. It's our commitment, and it's my personal commitment. That's why I joined the regional crisis headquarters. The district governor, who runs this district headquarters, is co-ordinated with the municipal headquarters. I'm not the Minister of Disasters, I'm in charge of the Republican Road Network. And yet, as you can see, to this day and to this day, and all the other days, when the municipalities, when the municipal headquarters turned to us, where they turned to us, everywhere upon request we sent equipment and equipment, and we redirected it from the Republicans. Especially for the way to Jebel, which you mean, yes, we cleared this road. The machine came back so it could get involved in the other major directions. We prioritize them against the number of settlements that serve the appropriate path. Where we're talking about municipal, when we finished with Republican, we rerouted equipment. Especially from Jebel at the Road Agency, there was no call for an extra request for tech. If they do it today, it will be sent immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u53	A question on behalf of the Reformation Block Group. Mr. Veliv will ask the first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u54	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers! Today's hearings certainly meet a public need and what excites us all in parliament and in the country, especially our compatriots, who are in an extremely difficult situation. I believe that these measures, which are identified and taken, will have their effect on overcoming these natural disasters. We can, of course, and we should probably look for the reasons and a little deeper, related to climate change and changes that will not pass our country. That's my question, too. It is aimed more at Minister Ivelina Vassileva, because for years I have been dealing with water, true, more with water quality, while in this case we have a huge amount and the question is: what is the policy of the Ministry of Environment and Water for the lasting solution of these problems that arise and will arise, unfortunately? How to assess the risk, how to manage the risk and ultimately prevent such adverse events for all our countrymen, if possible, for the economy? That's the essence of my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u55	For an answer Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Veliv, there are undoubtedly many challenges ahead of us, as you mentioned. Climate change and the actions that are being taken globally, at European level, at national level are important in order to combat the challenges that lie ahead of us, the challenges that need to be addressed with adequate measures at national level. Last week, during the Council of Environment Ministers in Brussels, Europe's position on the upcoming forum in Paris was not discussed, where the global agreement is expected to be adopted for all countries that are members of the Convention on Active Action in relation to climate change adaptation and mitigation policies. What does the Ministry of Environment and Water do in particular? Of course, I could hardly explain this within the short time I have. With regard to the prevention and management of flood risk, we follow our commitments and obligations as a Member State and carry out the tasks that national legislation has put in place for the preparation of flood risk management plans. These are documents arising from the Flood Directive and the requirement by Member States to implement a long-term planning approach to reduce flood risk, with action being taken in three stages. The first stage of the assessment of flood risk. Following analysis and evaluation of available information on past floods, a preliminary flood risk assessment has already been completed and areas with a significant potential flood risk for each pool management area have been identified. The degree of involvement for each settlement will be determined after the development of the threat maps and the risk of flooding for each area. The maps are currently being developed to determine the risk of flooding. This is the second stage that is expected to be completed by the end of this year. According to the requirements of the Directive, maps of flood-threatening areas are developed for each basin management area, including the spread of the bay area, maximum water quantity, maximum water-level cats. These maps shall be developed on the relevant scale and collateralisation so as to provide information on maximum quantities of water. They will be made available to the public, then proceed to the third stage, as required by the Directive, and it provides for the development of specific measures to be taken at each level [[the President gives a sign that the speaking time has expired]] , of all authorities and institutions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u57	Thank you, Minister Vasileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u58	These are documents that outline horizontal actions and measures related to the prevention and management of flood risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u59	Thank you. On behalf of the group of the Patriotic Front Mr. Bayraktarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u60	Thank you, Madam President. My question is to Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy. Mrs. Petkova, it is clear that in front of nature we are all small, only in Velingrad municipality it is not the first time heavy snow falls, not for the first time there are sleepers three and four meters, but, I would say, for the first time in many years Velingrad municipality almost 80% in a few days remains without electricity. What's the problem, anyway? The problem is that the electricity distribution company, and I unfortunately couldn't hear from you an answer on this issue, has not carried out any preventive measures to clean the clearings through which the main highway cables pass, if that's what I can call them. In other words, the big problems came just from the fall of trees that broke the cables, but for years there were serious costs for such activity, as we have seen, that the cost of cutting bushes for ten million on the roads was accounted for, only that the bushes were standing. The same problem is being observed now and here and it's not from yesterday, and it's not from that day. I would ask you: what control does the Ministry of Energy carry out in relation to these activities of the electricity distribution companies, and what sanctions do you have the opportunity to impose on these electricity distribution companies, since there is an inconclusive fulfilment of the obligations concerning large groups of the population? After all, Velingrad is the spa capital of the Balkans. The tourist activities have been blocked. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Madam President. From this point of view was hit the image of Bulgaria as a tourist country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u61	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. For a response Minister Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u62	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, the question you are asking is really very serious. I'll answer you like that. Regarding what investments EVN makes on the territory of Velingrad Municipality, what is the issue of investment at all, I am afraid that the Ministry of Energy does not have a specific butchery. These are costs directly linked to its licensing activity. From now on, all control relating to this activity is within the competence of the Commission for energy and water regulation. I very much hope that the Commission has taken appropriate action, has any plans on how this process should be controlled from now on, because it is indeed very, very important and leads, as we all see, to very serious consequences. With regard to the subject that you have put in place regarding the prosces between the power lines, let's just deal with the situation, let's end the disaster, let's get over it. Even now I am taking this opportunity to share with the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament that we intend to initiate a change in the legal framework relating to the expansion of the prosecs, because this is a very difficult problem - about 50% of the damage that has been done. Maybe it wouldn't have happened if you had a bigger distance. But, of course, it's a matter of regulatory changes. We will raise this debate and we believe that it is very important that there should be a solution on the subject. A huge part of the power lines were ripped right out of fallen trees not so much by the weight of the snow. This actually led to this discomfort in Velingrad. We have worked very hard to rebuild the substation. We did it. I understand that we have also created discomfort for the hoteliers, and I ask that we be excused, but that was the situation. What was required of us, by the ESO, was done at a hundred percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center, we are listening to you, colleague. Mr. Iglev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u64	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable ministers! My question is to Mrs. Vasileva. On Tuesday, we had a meeting in Haskovo with all the mayors in the district. The situation around the Maritsa River is extremely serious. All along the river there are deposits that threaten by flooding settlements and agricultural areas. And if the weather warms up, there is again a danger of flooding Greece and Turkey. So my question is: what alternatives does the Ministry of Environment and Water take to prevent this danger? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u65	Here you are, Minister Vasileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Everything exported by the MP is monitored by the Ministry of Environment and Water. As you know, it has been mentioned, the operational unit is in 24-hour mode and the state and level of the river are observed along the Maritsa River. And you mentioned, especially in the lower current, the waters are high. In the Harmanli region, there is an increase in river levels in Svilengrad. Indeed, Maritsa, given that it is a cross-border water site, requires us to respect our commitments within the meaning of the Convention on Cross-border Water. In this regard, we are fulfilling our obligations on March 6th, when there was a danger of raising the river level, we warned our neighbours from Greece. Subsequently, notes were sent to neighbours from Greece and Turkey on the 9th. So we are fulfilling our commitments in terms of revealing the dangers associated with increasing the levels of rivers to neighbouring countries. As regards the condition of the water site, as I mentioned earlier, some of the measures that were adopted by the government and which we introduced in immediate action, with an indication to the district managers, to the mayors, to the There is also an early warning system that is installed along the Maritsa River, followed by the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology in interaction with the Ministry of Environment and Water. That is, in real time we get information and send it around, notify the competent authorities, so all measures are taken to address possible risk situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u67	Thank you. There is a question on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of "Attack." Mr. Nikolai Alexandrov will ask the first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies, members of the Council of Ministers! You will understand Mrs. Pavlova or Mrs. Vasileva will answer my question, as it is not so much aimed at the disaster at the moment, because what needs to be done is done. It is directed at the consequences that can arise from it, namely during the snow-melting process: what is the state of the riverbeds? The regions where there is a large retention of snow cover are mostly forested. From the footage we saw on TV, you could see trees cutting in general so they could be cleaned. It worries me that the branches of these trees will go into the riverbeds where corks can be obtained. In the event of a good coincidence or not so good for some, it depends on how we look at it, if the weather warms up, a large mass of water is formed in large snowmelts, which will eventually bear all these branches to the riverbeds. The so-called plugs can be obtained in locations. We have already seen these in the case in Varna, in Asparuhovo, when such a tub was clogged. We've seen how much damage this could lead to. My question is this: what is being done to clean and maintain river beds so that they can cope with the flow rate that would possibly result from the melting of the snow cover? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u69	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, in relation to the question asked, I would like to quote a specific measure from the measures taken yesterday by the government: These are the responsible persons, institutions and agencies who need to take all measures and actions to clear the riverbeds, not to get unleashes, because this may be a problem and a reason for flooding the areas around the riverbeds. All of them must do their work, organize work on the ground immediately, in order to prevent such adverse consequences. This will be carried out by regional managers, mayors and Irrigation systems and will be under the strict control of the institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u71	Thank you. ABB's group, come in. Mr. Kadiev will ask the first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, ladies ministers! I'm from Smolyan and I was there in the first days, then I had to come back, but I'm following the situation completely and I know what it's about. I have to tell you, for the first time, at least 55 years since I can remember, something like this has happened. It's snowing. We've seen a lot of snow, but a lot of heavy snow fell. To tear up the corresponding poles like sticks, you know what tones we're talking about? I know you've done a lot. I guess even more could have been done, but there's something here that really bothers me. It bothers me that there was no communication on the first day. On Friday night the snow fell, Saturday morning there was no communication. The mobile operators "Mtel" and "Vivacom" disappeared. The only thing left is Telenor. And why is there nothing left but Telenor? Because only Telenor had the opportunity with aggregates to maintain its cells. [[Heckling]] The problem is that not all of them belong to the Telenor. There wasn't actually such communication to make it possible... We're already in security here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u73	Mr. Kadyev, you're doing an honest commercial ad right now! [[Radio.]] Ask the question on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u74	Okay. I'm saying this because I want attention. I paid attention to the Communications Regulation Commission yesterday.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u75	Please ask the question you are 11 seconds behind the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u76	Why are there no measures and requirements of CRC for these operators to be provided with generators so that they can work around the clock to have communication? On this matter, please, take action.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u77	This question cannot be admitted to the Deputy Prime Minister, as it is beyond the subject we are debating. You have the opportunity of parliamentary control to ask Mr. Moskovski, this really up-to-date question, undoubtedly related, but not entirely, to the subject. Question on behalf of the non-members of a parliamentary group of MPs, Mrs. Barakova, we are listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u78	Dear Madame Chairman, ladies ministers! My question is to Minister Lilyana Pavlova and is related to your expectations for activation of more landslides and collapses in the distressing regions, along the road network in Plovdiv region and your actions in this direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Barakova. Mrs. Pavlova, we're waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Barakova, you're right, no doubt. Unfortunately, the huge rainfall of snow and rain is yet to cause enormous damage, not only on the Republican road network, but also on the territory of the whole country, in all regions where there is a prerequisite for the formation of landslides and collapses. Our expectations, especially in the regions that are currently in distress, and these are Smolyanska, Kardzhaliyska, as well as Pazardjiska region, are to activate landslide processes along the road network, as we have seen in recent weeks. Especially on the road from Krichim to Dospat, in the region of Chepelare, in the whole of Smolyanska and Pazardzhishka region they are active. What is the reason for this? The reason is that Rodopi as a mountain, such as geology is predisposed to such landslides and collapses, all the more so that in recent years the rocks there have been subjected to the so-called release into depths. They have become more of a faded, softened on the clay soil, which is very easy to crumble. All this leads to a huge rock mass, which literally collapses on the road network, but not just there. That is why our efforts and the measures we have taken are directed in two directions. Firstly, all these machines, although, life and health, very soon we expect to end the struggle with the snowy element, will remain in place for the spring and summer in these regions, so that we can quickly, adequately, in the presence of these caves and landslides, they will be cleared out so that we do not close access, roads to settlements. As longer-term measures, what we are predicting is that in the most critical areas, especially in the area around Krichim, the road to Devin, additional facilities, bridge facilities, semi-tunnels are to be made to ensure that this rock mass does not endanger the lives of travelers. What we are planning is the development of a comprehensive programme in this direction - a programme with which the Travel Agency will apply as a beneficiary of the Operational Programme "Environment" as well as Minister Vasileva just said a special financial resource of 19 million. Euros are directed there. I hope that through this resource we will precisely make efforts to prevent, because prevention is what has been missing in the last 15-20 years. This is why the situation throughout the country is critical and the infrastructure in the country is critical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u81	Thank you, Minister Pavlova. Moving on to the second round of questions. The group of GERB is next. Here you go, Mr. Hristo Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u82	Dear Madam President, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies ministers! Dear Mrs. Kuneva, my question is for you. As it became clear from your exposé, nearly 3,000 personnel from the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior have taken part in overcoming the consequences of the disaster. It should be noted that the third mission of the Bulgarian Army is precisely to assist the population in disasters and accidents. In this regard, 97 modular formations of the Armed Forces are built, which are precisely to respond to such crises. We have all seen from the media reports how they have been selflessly involved in overcoming the crisis. I would like from this high tribune to extend our gratitude to all men and women in uniform, to all men and women in the Armed Forces, to the structures of the Ministry of Interior for their continued work for nearly a week and for all the efforts they have made. It seems that there is a clear coordination between the two ministries, but I would like you to give more information about what exactly actions were taken by the Armed Forces and rather by the Ministry of Interior? What was the coordination between them? What is your assessment of the response system itself by the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u83	Thank you. Your answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! During the previous few questions I spoke more about the Ministry of Interior, so perhaps now I should start with the Ministry of Defense. You are absolutely right that what we need to say today, regardless of all calls for improvement, for better coordination, for better performance in difficult situations, is to separate the controversial from the undeniable and say that people have done their job. I stress that coordination has been at a very high level, but let us also see what these two ministries have been doing both for defence and for internal affairs. The reference I have from the Ministry of Defense is literally day by day, and I think it gives a very good idea of the dynamics of effort. On 7 March 2015, the military formation in Smolyan, consisting of two soldiers and a rotor snowplow, provided assistance to the population in snow clearing along the Smolyan route Pamporovo. On March 8th, they continue with three such machines, are already in the ranks of 15 servicemen and provide assistance to the population. On March 9th from 15.45 pm to 17.00 pm Again on March 9th, under severe winter conditions, from the same formation of the town of Krumovo, in the composition of four soldiers, two pieces of equipment and one rotor snowplow provide assistance to the population in clearing snow on the roads in the region of the village of Manastir, the municipality of Lucky. 11 servicemen, one piece of equipment and one rotor snowplow continue on the Smolyan village of Straja, plus food delivery. Then in a group of five soldiers on the same day to help the population clean up snow outside the hospital building in Smolyan. Then Asenovgrad, on the same day, in the composition of 16 servicemen, three pieces of equipment provided assistance to the population in clearing the snow of the Asenovgrad route. On March 10 from 1.30 to 16.43 p.m. "Kuger" has carried out a flight along Krumovo route. Villages in Ardino Municipality. Krumovo for delivery of medicines for the distressing population, transportation of medical team for emergency medical care and medical evacuation of a mother from Gorno Pdranovo village. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] On March 10, "Kuger" once again carried out a flight with Krumovo route "Kurdzhali" villages in Ardino Municipality "Kurdzhali "Krumovo" for delivery of medicines and food products. On 10 March, four servicemen, two pieces of equipment and one rotor snowplow: the village of Monastery, the municipality of Lucky, continued the village of Smilyan and the village of Kirchevo. Then again on March 10,.. 23 soldiers to help clean snow in the area of a nursing home in the village of Rovino, Smolyan District, and the energy distribution company EVN to carry elements of an electric pole in the region of the village of Tikale, Smolyan District. They continue in the municipality of Straldzha on the same day, again with the forces of the Ministry of Defence. I won't have time for the Ministry of Interior, but I mentioned the scale of their operation several times. I would especially like to say that Mr. Nikolov, who is the Director of the Directorate-General, who is doing exactly the activities of fire safety, has been at his post all along and has ensured very good coordination with the Ministry of Defence. All those involved, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. Question on behalf of the Parlametary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u86	My question is to Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva. Mrs. Kuneva, you said, "We are yet to do an analysis of the causes. We will learn lessons and carry out prevention. Do not waste your time in this, because on 1 December 2014 after our signal here in Parliament, you called the Council of Ministers, which you and the Supreme Prosecutor's Office attended. That's where you did the analysis, and it's for the reasons. Technical maintenance and repair work on hydrotechnical equipment shall not be carried out or carried out at all. Secondly, lack of good coordination in exercising powers by all competent authorities. Third, liability by the competent authorities if there is grounds for committing administrative criminal liability of guilty persons. The responsibility between the control powers of the control bodies is completely fuzzy. It's a round-the-clock cutting of the woods. The control bodies, in that person, in the The responsibility is blurred and is not exercised, as a result of which, after this meeting of the Council of Ministers and these reasons for the problem, you decide how to deal with the problem. I am shocked that yesterday's decisions you made at the Council of Ministers are absolutely one to one written by those since December 1st. I'm only going to read you one thing because I don't have time: the dams in a severe transmission state. Ordering them to be suspended and decommissioned 1 December 2014 And yesterday, 11 March 2015: "Irrigation systems" to take action to temporarily decommission the dams defined in a transmission state. My question, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, is as follows: why have you not implemented any of the decisions you have made yourself from 1 December 2014 to 12 March 2015? What prevented you so much, or the forest, water, and all the other mafias in the country that are relevant to this issue, have stopped you from solving the problems? Tell Mr. Borisov that this decision of 1 December 2014, this shorthand, has no value. None of this is done. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] You're running after events right now, and you're running chaoticly and in different directions. Either get your shit together, or when those snows start melting, it's gonna be incredibly scary. I mean, why hasn't anything been done since December 1st?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u87	Mrs. Ninova, forty seconds out of time, so are you. [[Applause from BSP left Bulgaria.]] Come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u88	Mrs. Ninova, I'll make you happy. Each of those points that you talked about were made decisions and fulfilled. You probably weren't in the gym. I am sure that my colleague Minister Vasileva will give you information immediately. She actually read it to all of you that the ownership of the dams has finally been established. There are no more deserted dams, it is clear who is responsible and whose property they are. The field is being monitored. Here, of course, the Minister of Energy can specifically say about the dams of NEK, and we have as a fact changes in the Water Act. I mean, what the government could do so far. We are waiting for the financial justification of this Law because, you know, we are in a situation where we have to keep track of what costs when we apply laws. In no way will I be tempted to forward to the past and say: these are accumulated problems and so on. I know that together with you, we will succeed, step by step, to make sure that there is order. You're right, it's serious, that's why we said it then, and I am absolutely aware that your control can increase the efficiency of the Council of Ministers. This is how it should be? You are a parliament. The Water Act will be introduced in a very, very soon. I'll say again, we're only waiting for financial justification from the Ministry of Finance. The lyrics are ready. If you are willing to get more information from the platform, or after this session is over, you can do it from my colleagues. They're really ready to answer you point by point. All the questions are addressed to one person.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u89	Mrs. Ninova, Minister Vasileva could answer in particular if you wish. You didn't ask her a question, but she's willing if you like. [[Reply by National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]] You will address her in writing. Thank you. The Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will ask its question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u90	Dear Madam President, ladies ministers, dear colleagues! Since we are talking about coordination, this is the main thing we have heard so far from the answers, just to tell you what coordination is currently in order to get to my question. The coordination is that we have a problem charging the fuel machines. That's the big problem. The lack of communication with machine operators is also under any criticism. And we're talking about coordination and a job well done. The state is gone. That's the obvious thing that's happening right now. And I'm not saying it. It is said by the citizens who are currently in the snow trap. We've been there. It's really tough. Currently 393 settlements do not have electricity. And coordination was good. What's with the coordination, I can't understand it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u91	In all of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u92	No. Only in the Kardzhali district are there so many. For Smolyan, the number is the same. I have a question for Mrs. Pavlova. Why didn't the machines move and do everything possible to be on the ground, in a place where they could react adequately and immediately?! And how is everything honey and butter, Madam Minister, when you traveled from Haskovo to Kardzhali for three and a half hours?! Is this the understanding of an open road for a Republican road network?! This is also the place to thank Yunay Hamid, a nurse, and Dr. Filiz Abidin, who saved two lives. And we say the state is in place. Maybe I'm speaking and asking the question emotionally, but there's no way. People are in a very difficult situation. We're waiting for answers. I hope this thing doesn't happen again. Mrs. Kuneva, maybe because you only came to Kardzhali for summer, you don't know how much snow it snows in Kardzhali and Smolyan. My view is to come and winter time to see on the spot what is happening and not just to give an evaluation in the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u93	Mr. Ahmed, we're in question procedure. Invitations to ministers and Deputy Prime Minister for visiting individual settlements are outside the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u94	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u95	For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ahmed, you were probably chasing after someone else. If you've been following me, I've been traveling for 40 minutes myself. in the direction you mentioned. I didn't have a problem with moving. Yeah, there were complications. On the way, we met two of the rotor snowplows that came from Shumen and helped even transport them to get away with light cars. Forty minutes was the move. You're speculating from the stands. Second of all, I don't know which machines you're talking about. You're probably talking about the municipal machinery. I agree. Municipalities weren't ready, mayors didn't create the necessary organization and mobilization so their maintenance equipment would be on the ground. All machines committed to maintaining the Republican infrastructure were at their supporting points, as recorded in the instruction. [[Applause from GERB.]] We've made sure of it and checked it out. All the machines were fueled, and those that ran out of fuel normally due to a lack of electricity at the gas stations couldn't charge until the generators arrived. Teams from other traffic stations were delivering this fuel into cans. So the organization has been implemented.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u97	What about the National Crisis Headquarters?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u98	Here's the eng. Doncho Atanasov, who was three days in Smolyan region and personally provided, facilitated, organized and coordinated the companies in Smolyan region to help each other and carry fuel. They can't come here in the hall to speak, but we can give you more information in the couloir. Another question is that we have municipalities that have employed such companies, which do not have enough equipment, nor the technique is passable. Their technique really didn't have drivers and fuels, but this is a problem they could share with us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u99	It's about you, not the municipalities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u100	I understand you admit they're unprepared. I understand them, too. We have issued to them the necessary recommendations on how we recommend that they have points of reference, their machines come out on time. They don't respect it, unfortunately. Obviously, you are right about us improving coordination with local authorities and supporting them in order to better cope with difficulties like this. It's a proposal from me to them. We will provide our instructions, which we give to snow-cleaning companies to take advantage of them to their companies. We're ready to cooperate with all the available expertise we have. We've always been available, and we'll be here from now on. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u101	Thank you. He has the floor, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u102	There's a wonderful proverb: Let each sweep at his door and the street be clean. You guys do some things, we government guys do other things. People like that nurse you were talking about, I watched the report and I was genuinely touched. I'm doing my thing. I can't do what she did. I hope, however, that I will be so useful that I can say, after this mandate is over: "Yes, I have done everything so that she and many others like her can live a little better than it was 1, 2, 3, 4 years ago. So I don't take the blame that I didn't go to Kardjali this week. Of course, it is possible to do so. I'm happy to accept the invitation. I think I need to be at my post and do what I have to do within my competence so that every doctor and nurse can do theirs so that they can work more calmly and better. I'll join you and say thank you to all the health workers. Especially to thank this cute girl I saw on TV, and to wish for her recovery and the baby for which she made a sacrifice.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u103	He's gone off-duty!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u104	Out of work! The report was really touching. She went with her father to help. These things need to be highlighted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. Now it's the turn of our colleagues from the Reformation Bloc. Mr. Willy Lilkov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u106	Dear Madam President, ladies of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is to Mrs. Pavlova. I want to address you with a problem that is developing in the village of Simeonovo, Vidin. A landslide is activated because there is serious blurry formation over the village. This landslide took a house and cracked a few other houses. The landslide is developing now. It's about a disaster that's activated exactly in the middle of a snowfall. It is about that if emergency measures are not taken, there is a danger that this landslide will affect the road Sofia - Vidin, which is only 90 meters along a straight line from the landslide. And one more thing. Two of the reservoirs to take the waters to the Danube are currently clogged as well. There is a serious danger that if urgent measures are not taken, this problem will lead to Vidin being completely disconnected from the inside of the country. Therefore, I ask you to pay attention and provide funding for a project that has been unfulfilled for 7 years due to lack of funding, namely for serious drainage around the village to take the waters, not to send them directly to the village and flood it. Second, to master the landslide, to build support walls. Thirdly, to repair the reservoirs under the road that lead the waters to the Danube, as on average two TIRs per minute pass on this road. If this time it soaks, it will reduce its wearability and there is a real danger that the road will actually collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u107	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Lilkov, as I suppose you know, under winter conditions, road drainage activities cannot be carried out. What we can do right now is a restraint. I would call them more palliative measures in this period, as they will not allow a serious and lasting solution to these problems. At the end of the winter period, when conditions permit, measures will be taken so that we can secure this section of the road. As I mentioned, unfortunately, there are many such sections throughout the country. These are prevention measures for which resources are limited. We prioritize them more importantly, but when we talk about a first-class road, with such serious heavy traffic, this type of road direction is undoubtedly one that we prioritize as a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u109	A question from the group of the Patriotic Front Dr. Sultanka Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u110	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Ministers, colleagues! I remain convinced that the protection of the population and the national economy in Bulgaria are deprived of specialized management. I thank Minister Pavlova for being able to explain so well that the state was really ready for this situation, but again there is a problem in municipalities and districts. However, I ask the question: why is there no coordination, and why is there again chaos in these cases? At the same time, I would like to ask: why are not modern means and means used to protect, save and eradicate disasters for which there are sufficient opportunities? Dear Deputy Prime Minister, have municipal, regional and national exercises been conducted on the protection of the population of disasters between 2011 and 2015? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u111	Mrs. Petrova, I cannot allow your question of past time, which is beyond the mandate of the question asked to the respective minister or deputy prime minister. You have the opportunity to specify your question within the framework of the subject on which a hearing is requested.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u112	I am interested in whether there are basic trainings in this regard and whether the population is ready for normal response to such distress situations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u113	Not more specific than the initial way in which the question was asked, and it is hardly on the subject, but Mrs. Kuneva will be willing to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u114	Perhaps it will sound more like a reference, which I will tell you, but this is not a matter of my competence. There is a law in force on disasters and accidents, which makes a very clear distinction between who is responsible for what. This is within the Ministry of Interior. I am sure that if you ask the relevant question to the Minister of Interior, he will make a full reference. I had the opportunity to speak, as I told you, several times with Mr. Nikolov and from his words I am under the impression that especially at the central level such exercises, trainings are held regularly. As for its coordination with local headquarters, this is indeed more specialized information, which the Interior Minister is still able to give you in detail.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. From the group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u116	Dear Madame Chairman, ladies ministers! My question is related again to Haskovo region, Madzharovo municipality. The structure there is almost destroyed. The connection to the settlement is through a bridge that is too old. Three years ago, there were casualties on this bridge. The bridge is too old and one-way. In this regard, I ask you: will you grant funding for a pre-project survey of the bridge so that there will be no more tragic cases on the bridge?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u117	Mr. Iglev, I cannot allow your question, which is not on the subject which is the subject of answers today by the participating ministers and Deputy Prime Minister. The theme of infrastructure facilities, bridges across the country is very wide. You have the opportunity to ask the question in the order of parliamentary control, as this is a specific question and requires a specific verification. You have minutes of time, you can ask a question about the situation of the disaster at the moment is the topic of the hearings and the answers given by the ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u118	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u119	Thank you, too. Mr. Notev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers! I ask a question which is a logical extension of the question asked by colleague Alexandrov. Before that, however, I would like to sum up with one sentence that, after today's hearing, there seem to be more issues of strategic resolution than the clarity that has been introduced after your reports and information on what has been done so far. I mean, now that we are between two events, the heavy snowfall and the undoubtedly imminent snowmelting, which will likely lead to floods that we have already gotten used to, we do not have the right to think long and concretely about what else needs to be done in order and at the pace that we have heard the government has. I mean that the 14 points of the government meeting in December 2014 were to some extent the subject of discussion and decisions at the March meeting. You will agree, in spite of all the answers you insist that we already have, that this meeting would be completely unnecessary and the points would be unnecessary to discuss and repeat if the questions were indeed removed. That is, there is a strategic work plan, a job waiting for you, because we are in the midst of a permanent disaster. The good thing is that Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva, as if she had capacity and resources based on her professional experience, should be a decisive factor when all problems should be covered. On the question of Mr. Alexandrov, who asked you very specifically: what is being done about the expected floods for cleaning the river beds, the ravines, the ponds, is there a deadline, Mrs. Vasileva, for the implementation of these measures, which you have dropped in advance to the responsible factors? Will you expect a report from the people referred to as responsible before this disaster occurs?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u121	Thank you, Mr. Notev. For a response Minister Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u122	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, Mr. Notev, as has been mentioned, the time limit for the activation of all measures laid down in the Government Decision is to take all measures and actions immediately from those responsible. As far as the time limit is concerned, the answer is: the territories of all settlements must be routed as quickly as possible; all necessary prevention measures must be taken to ensure and ensure that risk situations do not occur; we must also be ready for spring snow melting. The time limits laid down by law are regulated. You know, there are two interdepartmental committees that regularly, twice a year, spring and autumn, form, establish the state of river basins, river beds, water sites in the territory of settlements. What we have triggered is the immediate mobilization of all responsible persons and bodies....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u123	Last question on behalf of the ABB Parliamentary Group. Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, ladies ministers! The disaster, especially what happened in Smolyan, Kardzhali, Haskovo, stems from the fact that at the first moment of heavy snow, the corresponding long lines fell. My question is to the Minister of Energy: do you think that this distance at the moment of 5 meters is enough and do you think that the gaps of these long lines have been maintained because this is the main thing to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u125	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Minister Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u126	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Kadiev! A moment ago I had the opportunity to share on the subject of Mr. Bajraktarov with regard to the proselytes. This really turns out to be a serious topic and perhaps a serious problem, but it is a problem that we will put to debate because we want to do our analysis after dealing with the disaster. We will analyze, of course, all the reasons for the severed power lines, for the accidents that have occurred, but what they see now in place colleagues, and what we see in practice is that one of the main reasons is precisely fallen trees on the power lines. The reason for this is the narrow sections that are between the power lines. However, certain regulatory changes must be made in order for this to happen. This is indeed a very important issue that we are going to put as a debate, because we believe that it must find its solution. Maybe half of the accidents wouldn't have happened to the power lines if the distance was greater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u127	Colleagues, we're running out of two rounds of questions here. We'll take a break. At 12.05 the parliamentary groups will have the opportunity of each group to express within 5 minutes their attitude towards the responses of the persons heard. Thirty-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u128	Colleagues, the meeting is ongoing. We move on to attitude on behalf of the parliamentary groups towards the replies of the Deputy Prime Minister and the ministers. Ms. Karayancheva from GERB group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u129	Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Ministers, Mrs. Chairman, colleagues! I want to thank you for the information you brought us here today, because it's up to date, it's 100%. I had the opportunity to be personally present in the eye of the disaster. What happened, my fellow Members, was a real disaster, such snow and old people have not remembered for 20 years. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB and DPS.]] Snow heavy snow with many broken trees.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u130	Colleagues, let's respect each other. Please, with such a general reaction from individual sectors, we cannot be collegiate! Let's hear from Mrs. Karayancheva, then each of the groups will have the opportunity to take an attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u131	The best efforts were made. The coordination was very good and I dare say it most responsiblely. In the first 12 hours there were clearly scheduled tasks, there was clear coordination and relationship between municipal and Regional Crisis Headquarters. They had come to the scene and General. Nikolov on-site coordinated the crisis situation. The ESO teams, EVN teams, fire safety teams, forest workers were all on-line and everyone was ready to help. On 7 March 2015, additional equipment came. All the ministers responsible for these disasters were in the area. But they weren't taking pictures, they were really to show and enable and assist regional crisis headquarters. The machines worked 24 hours a day on the Republican road network. Saviors, health workers are constantly on the field and I want to thank them because the work they give is really very hard. Because they know that after the next slumber, there's a man's life. We politicians shouldn't play with this. I thank you for speaking responsibly in this House today, without political references. Because where is the state? But where are the municipalities and the responsibility of the municipalities in certain situations!? Six municipalities cannot work in sync with the Regional Crisis Headquarters in Kardzhali District and one municipality to whine! I give an example, I'm correct enough with Momchilgrad municipality. Yesterday, they reported that 95% of their municipal roads were cleared. There is constant coordination with the District Crisis Headquarters today. To the helicopters. There was political talk that the first helicopter to come was on a cruise. Aren't you ashamed?! If only this helicopter hadn't come to do a sweep. [[DSS and DSS lines]] It wouldn't have been known that there was a broken long line in the village of Boyno, and now there would still be a problem and a search for this accident. Now over 100 people on EVN work on Dalja. This is where Ardino is powered. One hundred EVN and fifty ESO teams are working. This coordination, which was created in these crisis moments, really deserves congratulations. And I'll tell you something else. You told me about the nurse and the EMT. Bravo! And they will receive a reward. Yesterday were visiting Deputy Minister of Health Persenski and Dr. Sharkov. They really do make heroes. The same did the doctor and rescue team who walked 7 km to the village of Orlitsa and took a pregnant woman who was about to give birth. Those are the realities! And today, there's a high-speed technique waiting in Fire Safety to respond to every single signal. There is constant coordination between the municipal mayors and the District headquarters.................................................................................................... The roads are still being cleaned up. The machines that work on the Republican road network finished the work there and moved to help the municipal mayors, the small roads. Because this must really happen, fellow Members. I address the people who are in distress. They're probably not gonna hear me right now, but I want to tell them from here that at no point in their relationship with the mayors of settlements has been cut off. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Madam President, I have 30 seconds left. The connection is not broken because it is constantly being worked to get closer to them. I would like to thank all EVN, ESO, fire safety, lifeguards, foresters who walked and paved the way together with the machines, those who worked on the machines, the Grayders who really made the pitch. To the army, which also helped a great deal! That's a team! That's how it works! There may be passes. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There may be passes, but they're always repairable. First we have to watch people, and then we have to talk politics. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u133	And the police!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u134	Yeah, she could share with the police, but it's just that the minutes are limited, so there's no opportunity for everyone to thank themselves. And in particular, the police firemen. [[Reply of the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] Ms. Dora Yankova from the group of BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u135	Dear Madam President, Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, ladies ministers! I would say that in my conscious life there was much more snow in the Rhodopes. This must be the first time in Kardzhali. And I just got a call from people who said snow wasn't a disaster. A disaster would happen if it began to melt quickly. I want to share that the debate gave at least a chance for the citizens to understand, because during these seven days they did not hear, Mrs. Kuneva, although you said there was a headquarters.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u136	Where is this headquarters?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u137	There was no information. There wasn't any information, and there were guys from Civil Protection who turned them on on TV and said some things. You must have coordinated in some way. I'd like to express my infinite pride for the people's psychology and the spirit of the Rhodopeans. Perhaps in this process the only working formula has proved that there is human empathy, interaction, self-organization and volunteering between us and that, yes, local regional services have been mobilized and worked. However, there are a few things I would like to share. I'm sorry this gratitude won't hear the people in the 407 settlements where there's still no electricity. Now, purely working for us this debate is about having a solution. I'm addressing the Minister of Energy. Madam Minister, we are asking you to become an even better owner of the power grid. We will also support you with an insistence to the SEWRC for more investments. It is necessary, this is life in Bulgaria, this must happen! We want, we will support you and we will initiate a legislative initiative. It is no coincidence that my colleagues have imported several times a forest bill...... to be 25 meters and not for forest workers to be more important than the functioning of the state. We want there to be another status of the waiting area to the road infrastructure of the forest fund. They cut down the big trees and the small trees fell out of the heavy snow. And this is the second time, because in December 2014 it happened the first time. We will initiate and support the Minister, as long as he has enough activity and support in the government, we will give a package of measures for investments in the ERPs to be more underground, especially in mountain areas. If you have to find a solution. Where the most critical places are, I know it's expensive and the high transmission network. Those are hard questions, but they're necessary. Dear colleagues, it's not Mtel and the other operators that are to blame. We've lost the system of disclosure. Don't give yourself, God, is Bulgaria having a huge problem, we, what, are we gonna pull out the drums?! Or the megaphones, because the mayors are proud to have pulled out the megaphones. I'm addressing the Deputy Prime Minister. We need to prepare a system of disclosure and communication with every settlement. We can't say now that there's no phone or Mtel-link. It's part of the country's national security. So we're going to propose this, and we're going to propose a lot more, because we've been waiting in this debate together with the condition to see the holes that have appeared. Let's look at the standards as there is a standard for state roads when to launch first, second, third and fourth grade. We have to introduce this, it's our duty. So let's initiate a debate in Parliament.. a standard for how long to have a small, big accident. With regard to utility policies, we need to set standards. And one more thing. We make a lot of laws for entrepreneurs. We want them to be infinitely good, the big investors to have an entrepreneurial spirit. In this case, how did they partner with the state? This is also what we need to build, as politics and as work. Therefore, honourable Members, I believe that the initiative to make a hearing and debate is useful, and people also need to hear how the government works in times of crisis. And if you claim that these are good actions, I'm very worried if you had inadequate actions, what would happen? It would have been an even bigger disaster. I would like to address all of you for the following. We as MPs, as a left-wing group, will initiate a package of initiatives to assist the government. We are ready to partner in such a situation because it is useful for all the citizens we represent. Thank you. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers, if I have to go into the style of GERB, as the Minister of Disasters and Accidents...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u140	There was no GERB back then, and you weren't in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u141	Then you addressed her with the lady's natural disaster. But I won't do it. [[GERB lines.]] We of the DPS and we of the Rhodopeans are not, and we cannot be satisfied with what we have heard and seen today and in the last seven days. We understand the ministers were concerned, but that's not enough. Real and effective action is needed in such situations, which has been missing in the last seven days. We understood that the ministers did not know the Rhodopes and some of them were never where we grew up and enjoyed such snow. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Madam President, with procedural techniques today, in violation of the Rules, you have tried to correct this very important subject and to hide again, as you have been hiding for the last seven days. Deprived people and local authorities want to understand what the state does in such situations and what to expect in future ones, because this snow will soon melt. We have seen that there is no desire to draw lessons from what has been done right and wrong; and from what has not been done so that we can see our gaps, not allow them in the future, and do better in such situations. After all, we Rhodopeans did not get an answer to some of the questions: when will there be a road, bread and medicine? When will there be electricity in all those hundreds of settlements where people are currently in distress? [[Relations from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] However, we understand that in your opinion and your assessment everything is perfect. We Rhodopeans saw that despite you local authorities were close to the people and were doing the possible and impossible to help. [[Replications from the MPs Tsveta Karayancheva and Stanislav Ivanov.]] Clearly, your behavior is such that, in your opinion, the problem of disasters is the work of those in distress themselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u142	But you read that in the papers because you weren't there, you weren't on the field.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u143	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Bloc, Mr. Velikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u144	Thank you. Dear Madam President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, ladies ministers, we at the Reformation bloc appreciate the efforts of the government and of all those sympathetic and smart women with leadership functions as positive and think that we should thank them both and those who are not in the Chamber, including what has been said also with regard to our army and the help that the Ministry of Defence has shown, of course, and some other ministries and agencies. I also express satisfaction with the answers that have been given today. However, we are also looking forward, this question of mine, which was asked to Minister Vasileva, was also related to the sustainable solutions related to the prevention of disasters due to higher water standings. And in that sense, we would recommend, for example, what she said she was preparing, but it wasn't done, to speed up a bit. It is about the vulnerability maps of the relevant regions of flooding and depending on the most sensitive areas... those that are to say the first zone, closest to the rivers that are flooded, especially in higher, not even as high, there are measures to be taken by the local authorities, to take into account the issue of building permits, namely not to grant such permits. We also believe from the Reformation Block that local authorities could be a little more active in cases such as the last week, which seemed to have been present in all places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u145	Thank you, Mr. Veliv. On behalf of the Patriotic Front, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u146	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, ladies of ministers, I have heard many people speaking on behalf of Rhodopeans. [[Full line: higher, can't be heard.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u147	But more silence, please, in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u148	And I'm a child of the Rhodope Mountains, and I'd like to remind you that the mountain is giving birth to heroes. She gave birth to Momchil a lad, not Enyhan a grandmother. [[Applause from PF.]] However, honourable Members, we have a very good lesson that has happened in these few days, which has broken, first of all, the ministers, the so-called ethnic opposition myth.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u149	Colleague, I'm sensing that you're entering another subject outside the attitude of what you need to express.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u150	Madam President, please stop censoring me. I have a right to an attitude that I want to develop because it's important.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u151	I'm giving you the opportunity to develop an attitude without references.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u152	So, please, every second word you say, you're going to oppose me, and you're going to try to censor me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u153	My second word depends on your first. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u154	So the people living in the Rhodopes, Bulgarian Muslims and Christians, showed that they do not need political powers to organize them. However, the problem, ministers, is that even without snow, most of the settlements in the Rhodope Mountains cannot be reached for the simple reason that there are no roads there. In other words, regional policy in this regard has been ruining this exceptional region for 20 years. And the huge snowfall, I fully agree with Mrs. Yankova, as I am also a skier beyond anything that we know much more serious years with much more serious snowfalls. In Chepelare, two meters of snow fell as early as October. So snow isn't the problem, and that's not the problem. There's a few problems. First of all, I would like to thank you, Mrs. Petkova, for taking my question seriously, because this is, first of all, an issue related to the accumulation of costs, which the population ultimately pays through the cost of electricity. You have given me a very good answer today, which shows that there is once again no system of control over the costs of the ERPs in the country. Moreover, you have shown me that once again there is no coordination between the relevant specialized structures In other words, the people must pay for something that has not been incurred at all as expenses. Fortunately, nature had to intervene to show this problem. And I sincerely hope that you, in a very express order, along with the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, will clear this problem and make a revision in this direction. Mrs. Pavlova, I think it is high time for regional policy to be directed towards these places. Because in the Rhodopes, the only livelihood that currently enables development is tourism. Only tourism without infrastructure can't happen. I would ask you, I don't want to give you any advice, really to make an audit when a Ministry of Disasters and Accidents was headed by a minister and to see how many million funds were invested, for example, to Velingrad Municipality, to make a tour to see if support walls were built, whether roads were made, which were reported as asphalted, and they still stand on clay today. [[Replicate from Minister Lilyana Pavlova.]] Yes, I'm glad you support me, only it's nice to finally have the country really have action in that direction. You asked the question very nicely and Mrs. Sultanka Petrova. It is no accident that the Patriotic Front not once or twice says that military training is needed in schools. Because it's not military training just to know kids how to handle it in wartime. There, children learn how to cope with such crisis situations. And we have to prepare these children, because climate change will bring us more and more often before such situations. And here, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I hope you also have a leading role in this policy becoming a reality. Because it's useful. I hope that both Minister Pavlova and Minister Petkova will approach this time really responsible and stately so that we can not go further... I would ask you, Minister Pavlova, for something else in my own way. It is also good to do an inventory of snow-cleaning equipment. I have to tell you that a huge part of the snow-cleaning technique is not suitable for cleaning a snow cover over 30 cm. Rotor snow-cleaning machines in Bulgaria are practically missing. The last machine has been for 25 years, and the rest have long been scrapped, which hinders the actual and quality cleaning of highways. [[The President indicates that the speaking time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u155	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u156	Some people spoke for six minutes, but no one... [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u157	And you, six minutes and five seconds, Mr. Bayraktarov. [[Radio.]] I've given you more time because of the exchange lines and the dots between us. I gave you one minute and six seconds. Your group is very careful about the weather. For attitude on behalf of the BDZ Parliamentary Group Mr. Iglev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u158	Dear Madam President, dear Mrs Deputy Prime Minister, ladies ministers! The Bulgarians these days are shocked, and many of us are surprised by the way municipal and mostly state authorities reacted to a phenomenon that may be a bit surprising, but in no case is sensational snow in March. How can a few days almost all of South Bulgaria be blocked, can not take water and bread to the people?! I would not particularly like to dwell on how electricity distribution companies formally fulfil their obligation to maintain the route of electricity lines. Apparently, they can't handle the trees and the fallen branches cut the power. Apparently, there are also problems with the power lines themselves. From there they will probably say that the state does not recognise them investment in repair activities. Profit must also assume some responsibility. I demand that we know soon who and how will be punished for leaving people out of power for nearly a week! Once again, I attended a meeting in the municipality of Maritsa, including Haskovo and Kardzhaliyska District The infrastructure has been destroyed in Madzharovo. The connection with the settlement cannot be realized. Two more bridges through the village of Lyubenovo and Dinevo, Haskovo region need urgent reconstruction. In Lyubimets there is a danger of flooding particularly large agricultural areas because of the deposits on the Maritsa River. The same is reported by the mayor of Svilengrad, where the river threshold reached 4m and 60 cm. Ladies and gentlemen, 40 cm separates us from the complete tragedy for which we will normally look for a way in Bulgaria after the cart has turned around. 15 pump stations are down and 29 electric ladders have fallen in the municipality of Mineral Baths. I pay attention to all my fellow Members, do not go to Mineral Baths only when we have to vote for us. Go now and try to help people. The same is the situation in Stambolovo. I remind people with short memory in our election campaign, when we were many MEPs, current ministers and other people, were wearing boots, photographed in the media, helped in the village of Strandsko, Dimitrovgrad after the disaster of the floods. Colleagues, where are we now, since we've already been elected MPs? People need to feel that we are not only there when we fight for their voices, but when they really need help! If any conclusion can be drawn from this meeting, it is in the unanimous opinion of all mayors of town halls the state is missing! If the mayor of a village says the state is missing, imagine what the common people of these municipalities think! They're probably wondering why we pay taxes. I am paying attention to the state leadership, despite the disaster situation, the National Crisis Headquarters was not created, coordination between the individual units is poor. People show everyday heroism, but not only is there no one to help them, there is no one to guide them purely logically. From the Bulgarian Democratic Center and I personally as a member of the Haskovo region, we demand a quick assessment of the damage and adequate behaviour by the state to be reported to us at the beginning of next week! I have made a commitment to monitor the situation in the future for the good of the needy! They do not distinguish between opposition and power, but they see in us the state seems more and more unoccupied and helpless! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u159	Thank you, Mr. Iglev. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of "Attack" "Mr. Nikolay Alexandrov."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies, members of the Council of Ministers! I will avoid to a large extent the talking that is in this Chamber, because many people will say: "Let there be no political one, and there be no more professional one. " - I do not know pό political authority from the National Assembly. But I also wouldn't suppose that those in power would say that they didn't do well, and the opposition didn't. If you didn't do it at all, we wouldn't have been there at all. How we will perceive it in this room really doesn't matter. The importance is how people will perceive it, who will look at us outside and who will come six months from now on, and we will invite them to vote for us in the local elections. For all these people there is not the question: who has done what in the past, and what lessons we have learned from the past. The problem is that in these 25 years, whatever is being done in the country, no one takes responsibility for what happened, learns lessons, and does not change things. Snow isn't new. It's like saying that in June the sun is new, rising above Bulgaria. The point is that we do not expect you to deal with every snowflake that has set out to fall into the territory of Smolyanska, Haskovo, Kardzhaliyska and other areas of the country. But we expect as MPs, as representatives of the people, mostly perhaps people, when there is such a thing, not to come to human casualties and great losses. Here Mrs. Pavlova said: "We have little money for prevention. All right, honourable Members, honourable authorities, if you have really been sincere in this approach to more human, think about 1 lev invested in prevention, saves 6 levs. After that. We don't heal before, we heal after. How do you expect us to improve the situation? If we had control and surveillance, and the organs were doing all their work, we'd get to trees that were more than necessary in the proses?! We would have reached an outdated power grid that couldn't withstand the snow?! Or were we gonna get to collapsed ponds?! We have identified from the party "Attack" for us what the problem will be in the future, i.e. what the investigation will be like in our view. Mrs. Pavlova very rightly pointed it out.. There are expected to be landslides as well as floods post-factum. And from now on, what will the cabinet do as such, because that will be the other look of people. I can guess what it's gonna be like. Two months will pass, damage will be assessed, payment will be extremely insufficient for the people. People will say: "The State has done nothing. " The State will in turn say: "There is no money.'" We will start throwing the ball at each other and we will still have done nothing, and people will still not appreciate it. Mrs. Vassileva, I therefore asked the question I understand that cleaning the troughs should be carried out at the moment, but the real question is the monitoring, when will it be, how long it will be, what stages. Again, I don't expect every twig that will be suffered down the surface of the water to be monitored and removed. But it's the least we can do from here on out. We say disaster. It has happened, yes, most likely will happen in the future, colleagues, but not to turn them into cataclysms. We turn them into cataclysms when the state hasn't done its job in time, when in this room we've gone against each other, we've told each other some truth and someone doesn't want to accept it just because, you see, he's in power and he's a little beneath his dignity. This is what we are calling from the party of Ataka, let us do our job in the meantime. Give, having all the good suggestions, let's sit down, listen to them and really something to do, not just talk about something we're going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u161	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. We remain to hear the attitude on behalf of the ABB Parliamentary Group. Mr. Mihov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers! On behalf of our parliamentary group, thank you for your information and for answering the questions. For me and for my colleagues, a few questions arise, but they can be summarized in the conclusions of what happened after the so-called Osmomartian crisis. This raises the first question: did we manage and miss the Ministry of Disasters and Accidents? In this Parliament, the issue once stood before I had knowledge of parliamentary activity. I think at this point the ministers proved that they did well. But the next question arises: how was the crisis managed? The crisis is managed when there is real information on a real scale, during the time of the emergency situation itself. There was none, and I think that the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications should do a very serious analysis of the operation of the fixed support network, its duplication from military connections, relay stations that do not have battery and generator reservations and, as has become known, mobile operators. And even in avalanches, we rely on mobile operators. That can't be allowed. It's the foundation of the government. Secondly, in relation to the first question, the management of this crisis was not as centralized as it was decentralised, and that is why as many ministers are here instead of one. The question arises: after this event, which we are analyzing here today, whether the Security Council will gather all responsible people who have done or not to make the algorithm where and what else needs to be touched. In addition to communications, I believe that the crisis national and local headquarters were not really managed in the scale of the evolving weather environment. Next, the Bulgarian army is mentioned. She knows what she's doing. The Bulgarian army has a third mission, namely: support national security in peaceful days. She did it, but you know, fellow Members of Parliament, it's from the budget that we didn't give them. In this budget, both aircraft and heavy equipment actually combine combat training with support for the population, but this is not fair on the part of parliament. The army still needs to be supported. Finally, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, a long time ago we had to create a law that was a special law and which was called a "training of the population for action in an emergency situation." We owe such a law to our people, to the population, and I hope that in the Defence Committee we will start working on it, because both from the screen and the ministers have seen that the population is not en masse involved in helping both the military and those who have come I do not know where to get them out of the sleepers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u163	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Dear colleagues, thank the Deputy Prime Minister Mrs Kuneva, the ministers Mrs. Pavlova, Mrs. Vasileva, Mrs. Petkova, for the hearing procedure held today in view of the crisis of March snow, in short. Please turn off the cameras as well as the microphones. We are moving to the next point of our program, but Mr. Vladislav Nikolov wants the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u164	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will make three procedural proposals to extend deadlines. On the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules of the National Assembly to extend the deadline for proposals by the Members of the National Assembly to amend and supplement the Law on Bankruptcy, No 454-001-47, submitted by Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs on 19 November 2014, with another 7 days. On the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be extended and the period for proposals by Members of the National Assembly under the Deposit Guarantee Bill in the Banks, No 402-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers, by another 3 days, until the maximum term under art. 80, para. 1. and on the grounds of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules of the National Assembly to extend the deadline for proposals by 7 days under the Law on the fiscal council and the corrective mechanisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u165	Thank you. Colleagues, is there a reverse opinion? Do you mind if I put the proposals or vote separately on the three procedures? There's no shouting in the hall. I take it as a sign of consent to allow a general vote on the proposals made: under the Bank of Bankruptcy Act, 7 days; under the Bank Deposit Guarantee Bill, by 3 days, and the Fiscal Council Act and the Management Mechanisms 7 days. Please vote. They voted 93 MPs: 91, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. The next item in our weekly program is: SELECTION OF THE MANAGGER OF NATIONAL HEALTH CACUS. I recall that the procedure for the election was adopted by rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 18 February 2015. A report from the Committee on Health for the hearing of the proposed candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund was received. Mrs. Daritkova, we are listening to you to present the Report with the Commission's draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u166	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am making a procedural proposal in relation to Section Five, i.e. 1 sentence second of the adopted Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, for admission in the hall of Dr. Glinka Komitov.. a candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, proposed on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u167	I shall put to the vote the proposed admission to this House. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Quaestors, invite Mr. Komitov. Mrs. Manolova for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u168	Dear colleagues! Madam President, please invite the Minister of Health Mr. Moskov to come to the Chamber and participate in the debates on the election of the head of the National Health Insurance Fund. I'm guessing he consulted with his PR guys. His presence in plenary on such an important topic should help his high rating unless he fears uncomfortable issues. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] In any case, I ask you to invite him, because the topic is important enough and it is unlikely that Mr. Komitov will be able to answer any questions related to the activity of the Casa. [[GERB lines.]] Yes, we will ask Mr. Moskov, dear Mrs. Daritkova. We hope that he will come to plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. I sensed this proposal of yours. I've invited Mr. Moskov. He'll be in the room any minute. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u170	What timing we are in, Mrs. Tsacheva!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u171	We are listening to the report, Mrs. Daritkova, waiting for Minister Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u172	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe on hearing the proposed candidate as Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund At its extraordinary meeting held on 10 March 2015, the Committee on Health held a hearing of the proposed candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund under Section IV of the adopted procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly (GSP, p. 15 of 2015) The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Boyko Penkov, members of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health care, trade unions and patient organizations. The President of the Committee on Health Dr. Daniela Daritkova informed the MPs and guests that, at an extraordinary meeting held on 4 March 2015, the Commission carried out an examination of the documents submitted by the applicant regarding the admission to the hearing, pursuant to Section III, i.e. 2 of the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for election by the National Assembly, hereinafter referred to as the Rules of Procedure. In the verification, the Commission found that the proposed candidate had submitted all the necessary documents referred to in Section I, i.e. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of which a unanimous decision was adopted until a hearing in the Committee on Health is allowed by Dr. Glinka Dimov Komitov. The applicant's hearing took place in accordance with Section IV of the Rules of Procedure. In order to ensure full publicity and transparency in the selection of the governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the full stenographic minutes of the meeting shall be published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly. Dr. Glinka Dimov Komitov's candidacy as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, proposed on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB, was presented by one of the importers, Dr. Kiril Dobrev, Vice-President of the Committee on Health. It was said that Dr. Komitov has gained 32 years of professional experience in the healthcare system, including in the management of health care and health insurance. The proposed candidate has graduated from the University of Medicine at the Medical University of Plovdiv, has acquired two majors: "Accuracy and Gynecology" and "Social Medicine and Health Management." The candidate has completed a re-qualification training for obtaining a new professional education in law at the Higher Economic Institute of Sofia, now the University of National and World Economy, with a qualification of "Jurist in Business and State Administration" and has acquired an educational-qualification degree at the University of Economics and Political Sciences. He has acquired a Faculty of Economics and Social Sciences at Plovdiv University. Dr. Komitov specialized in health management in Paris, worked as a material collaborator to the Permanent Parliamentary Committee on Health and as an external expert in the Committee on Health and Social Policy at the Sofia Municipal Council. In 2007, he participated in the Committee on Health and Social Activities at the Council of the European Union in Brussels to develop and adopt the two new regulations on the coordination of social security systems in the European Union. Author and co-author of more than 40 scientific publications, participated in national and international conventions and conferences, including the World Health Organization, on topics related to health insurance, health insurance law, public health and clinical specialities. In his exhibition Dr. Glinka Dimov Komitov presented his views on the development of the National Health Insurance Fund. As priorities in the management of the public fund, Dr. Komitov pointed out the effective and transparent management of the funds from health insurance contributions with a focus on the final result and quality of medical activity. As a strategic goal of the management of the public fund, Dr. Komitov outlined improving the health status of the population. During the hearing, Dr. Komitov answered all questions asked by the members of the Committee on Health. In view of the exceptional public importance in the health system of the post of governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, representatives of the word and patient organizations were given the opportunity to express their opinions and questions to the applicant. With regard to the meeting to verify the submitted documents for admission of applicants until 4 March 2015 and the hearing of the admitted applicant, the Health Committee found that it complies with the legal requirements for taking up the position of Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. The expertise, administrative and management experience gained by the proposed candidate, as well as the additional qualifications and requalifications it has acquired, are positive prerequisites for the implementation of competent and responsible management of the public fund. The applicant has personal motivation to participate actively in the process of reforming the health insurance system to achieve financial stability and optimal functioning of the Fund, as well as increasing the confidence of citizens, patient and word organizations in the insurance model. On the basis of the hearing and the vote taken on the following results: the Committee on Health shall propose to the National Assembly: 1. To examine and vote on the proposed application of Dr. Glinka Dimov Komitov as Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund under Section V of the Rules of Procedure for which the draft decision is applied, as set out in the Annex to the report. In this regard, I suggest to your attention: Project! DECISION on the election of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 19th para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act HAS DECIDED He chose Glinka Dimov Komitov as the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. In relation to the decision adopted by the National Assembly, promulgated in No. 15 of the Official Journal of this year, following the Commission's report containing the draft decision that we have just heard from the President of the Commission, Mrs Daritkova, the floor should be given to the applicant of the proposal for choice at an exhibition within 2 minutes to be presented to us. That's what Mr. Kiril Dobrev will do. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u174	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly, I am pleased to introduce Dr. Glinka Komitov and some key points from his professional path. Dr. Glinka Komitov has 32 years of professional experience in the healthcare system, health management and health insurance. He is a graduate of the Medical University of Plovdiv. There are two majors in Obstetrics and Gynecology and Social Medicine and Health Management. He has graduated law at the University of National and World Economy Sofia, with a qualification of "Jurist in Business and State Administration." He specialized in health management in Paris. He started working on distribution as a doctor at the hospital in the city. Teteven in 1980 specialized in Obstetrics and Gynecology. He worked as such from 1982 to 1991 in Teteven, and then at the Hospital Plovdiv. After 12 years in the field of health as a doctor with a specialty in obstetrics and gynecology he was elected director of the Hospital Plovdiv, and her economic director. From 2002 to 2010 he was Deputy Director of the National Health Insurance Fund. During the period 2010 - 2013 he was Director of the Sofia Health Insurance Fund and since 2014 he has been CEO of the Second Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. He also worked as a material collaborator in the Permanent Committee on Health at the National Assembly since 2001. Author and co-author of more than 40 scientific publications. In 2008, he developed and published the concept of health policy and its strategic priorities under the conditions of continuing reform with specific policy approaches. He is co-author of the books "Management of Resources" priority of the health reform since 2009, "Management of hospital resources" "New hospital management" from 2011, "Health insurance in Bulgaria and in the world" 2013 His professional path, his high recognition of his work, his personal qualities and morals convincingly lead to the conclusion that Dr. Komitov not only has the will to take responsibility for the management of the National Health Insurance Fund, but also to be part of the team that contributed to the implementation of the reforms and achieved some of the main objectives in the areas of health care. In view of the above, the Parliamentary Group of GERB believes that with its rich professional and administrative experience, Dr. Komitov can contribute significantly to the construction of the health insurance system.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u175	Time will be taken into account on behalf of the parliamentary group 1 minute and 30 seconds at the expense of the debate group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u176	That's the last sentence I'm graduating with. All this would lead to better administration and functioning of the health insurance system, increasing trust and raising the authority of the National Health Insurance Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u177	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Mr. Kirilov, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u178	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I am making a procedural proposal to extend plenary time until the debate on this item is completed and the vote on it is taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u179	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal to extend the plenary session until the debate is concluded and the draft proposal for a decision is voted on. Please vote. Vote 101 MPs: 92 against 4, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, before I open the debates, I would like to remind you that, following their implementation, in accordance with the time available to the parliamentary groups under our Rules, the candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund will have the opportunity to answer the questions referred to it within 10 minutes, then the vote on the submitted draft decision will take place. I'm opening the debate. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u180	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Members of the National Assembly! The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front will support Dr. Glinka Komitov's candidacy as head of the Health Insurance Fund because we believe that this is a worthy candidate. He's walked his professional path to get to this high place. The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front made a meeting with him. Put the sick issues that concern the Health Insurance Fund at the moment and especially its draining. We believe Dr. Glinka Komitov will handle these problems. Let's not forget he's a Plovdiv shot. I've known him myself since 1992. The most respected person in our city and a great favourite of the women of Plovdiv [[crowd cheering]] Because he was an extremely good obstetrician. I repeat, an extremely good obstetrician! So once again, I say to my colleagues in the Patriotic Front that we will support this candidacy. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u181	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u182	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Dr. Komitov! Before I begin my speech, I will still remind my colleagues that I was right when on the 18th we adopted the rules and when some colleagues claimed that by the end of March there would be an elected governor. I was able to calculate without the help of the telephone car that we will need 23 days, which is today, colleagues! [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause by GERB.]] Colleagues, correctness requires that I say that I know Dr. Komitov and I am the only one here present who worked directly with him in the period 2005-2009 when he was part of the team of the Casa's operational management as Deputy Director, and I was Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Casa. I'm very familiar with his ideas, I'm very familiar with his potential. However, since 2009, a lot of changes have taken place in the regulatory base. The management bodies of the NHIF have changed, the Assembly of Representatives, the Control Board has been abolished. Activities were transferred from the Ministry of Health to NHIF such as dialysis activities, oncopreparators and others. Does the candidate for governor know what legal base he's gonna have to work with from now on? Is he aware of what additional responsibilities he will be entrusted as future manager of the National Health Insurance Fund? Unlike the period 2005-2009, for the first time hospitals have fixed budgets up to 95%, despite promises of the same funds as last year. What about the new hospitals?! What about the new activities?! Only at the end of the last two months of last year? 7 new permits of new hospitals, 39 authorisations for new activities. Is there a budget planned? Will there be funds for all of them? What about the changes to the Health Insurance Act that are already in parliament?! At the hearing the other day on Monday of the candidate for governor of the NHIF, he disagreed with part of the cooked changes. Among them is one of the main proposals suppliing the negotiation of prices and volumes between the NHIF and the word organizations. He explicitly stressed that lawmakers who do not support the proposal for joint checks are not allowed to comment on anything about the financial stability of the National Health Insurance Fund. Here is the place to remind that just last year, exactly one year ago, colleagues from GERB, from the Health Commission, did not support these same proposals for joint checks and financial control. The future governor is aware of the fact that the obligation on persons with suspended social security rights to recover them after payment of all due contributions since 2000 is being violated by the Institute of Paid-up Public Debts. In this way, the State abdicated its responsibility for the untimely collection of health contributions against the violation of the legal rights and interests of its citizens. There are also other proposals. The increase by 5% in the amount of the insurance income on which the state pays insurance to the persons under art. 40, para. As of early 2016, 3 of the Health Insurance Act essentially retains its legally privileged position until 2025. The state continues to be in debt to the health system and, in particular, to the NHIF, since in December 2010, in an unprecedented way, colleagues, even in European history, nationalised nearly 2 billion. lv. from the money of the Bulgarians to health.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u183	Well, again?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u184	In this way, the state continues to violate the foundations of the health insurance model. According to the proposals for a change in the Health Insurance Act, it is said that the insurance package will be divided into basic and additional. How will it be divided? On what principle? Who's gonna fund it? I am under the impression that this uncertainty concerns the candidate for governor, separately where it worries all Bulgarian citizens. The other proposal is the transfer of the powers to determine the list of diseases for which the National Health Insurance Fund pays the medicinal products, medical devices and dietary foods for special medical purposes. However, the supervision of the NHIF does not qualify. Minister, setting the list is an essential element of drug policy, and it is one of the main levers for you to define policy in this country as Minister of Health. The other proposal is that the Court of Cassate will be increased by two more people from the quota of the state, which will make it more than 50%, in fact constitutes the holding of the National Health Insurance Fund. Or perhaps after two of your coffers, which you currently have in Oversight, the minister also wants remaining members of his political cabinet to enter into the supervision of the Casa. This, together with the fixed budgets, puts an end to the insurance model and after 15 years of trying, after 15 Cassata directors, we are back to square one again. The tales of how money follows the patient remain in nothingness. What is new is that the patient will look for money in hospitals or, to put it simply, it is difficult for patients to access health services, and in places they are completely deprived of access to health services. In this situation the side question arises: does the NHIF need its 2500 employees? We can also ask the opposite question: is there a need for the Ministry of Health, which has already transferred almost everything to the National Health Insurance Fund? Yesterday the Council of Ministers approved the methodologies for the valuation and payment of activities in outpatient and hospital medical care, in the outpatient dental and complex dispensary monitoring of patients with skin and psychiatric diseases. According to this methodology, when paying in hospitals this year, overliminal funds will not be covered at all. Medical establishments will receive up to 95% of the funds made in 2014 if they provide an emergency and up to 90% if they do not provide one. With great attention from BSP left Bulgaria we will monitor how and by what methodology the budgets of the new hospitals will be determined, we will keep the information from them public, without hiding behind the notorious term. Finally, I share what I read yesterday from Dr Daritkova's interview, which, by overcoming its natural shyness and tact, I quote, said: I think that only at the end of this year will it be possible to take into account whether the really high rating of Minister Moskov corresponds to some good changes in the healthcare system. Let's be a little more patient. I really believe that if this energy and this high rating are heading in the right direction, we will boast better results at the end of the year. Dear colleagues, the BSP does not need to wait for the end of the year to understand what is evident from everyone in our country is coming another disaster in healthcare, which, apropo, happens whenever it manages GERB, even though it is currently in coalition. [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]] Dear colleagues, the roulette has turned. Two months ago, the Chairman of the Health Commission, today, the new Head of the Cashier. Who's next in the sector? The resemblance to the previous government when four ministers, three chiefs of the Health Commission and five heads of the National Health Insurance Fund were replaced in four years is obvious. Hopefully, the future director will be able to keep an eye on things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u185	Thank you, Mr. Raynov. Until today, I thought only classics were quoted and referred to them. It's a good thing you're quoting Dr. Daritkova. [[Radio.]] You must have noticed she's also a woman. [[Replication by the National Representative Emil Raynov. Awesome.]] Are there any lines to that statement? I won't. Any other MPs? First was Mr. Bayraktarov, then the word has Mrs. Kovachka, then Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u186	Thank you, Madam President. I note that you are a woman who looks extremely good for your age. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Bayraktarov. Let's get on with it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u188	Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, Dr. Komitov, we have said a lot to each other in the Committee on Health, but due to the limited order, we have not been able to tell each other everything. You will often hear from politicians that health care would be in a car accident. Health has actually been in a car accident for a long time, and there's no way he could have crashed a second time. The accident occurred after 1990, when, sadly, changes began with high hopes, but led to the fact that the Bulgarian patient had no normal access to medical services for a long time. It is no coincidence that the most important in this system is the patient during your hearing in the Health Committee. After all, all Bulgarian doctors take the Hippocratic oath and it is, once again, in the name of the god Apollo, to remind them of the................. the second time in the name of the well-being of the patient to help in any way. The patriotic front has expressed its support for your candidacy, but this support also goes through certain responsibilities. We hope, bearing in mind your exclusive business card, that they will indeed be paid with responsibility with serious, state-owned and real results. Since there is also Minister Moskov here today, we have had not one or two conversations about ideas, about the plans of the Ministry of Health......................................then we support them without reservation because we believe that this is the right path. On the other hand, I would like to ask you, not to lecture you, because you are qualified, in the first place, in your office, to stand a sign with the words:............................................................................ IMRO colleagues told me that you were the grandson of a member of IMRO. Your grandfather was one of the distinguished actors of IMRO. I would recommend that you apply these Voevod principles, which once applied the great Bulgarians to defend the Bulgarian national identity and the Bulgarian state, and did not hesitate if they should even lose their lives in order to have it today Bulgaria. Health care is part of national security. We can't have a developed economy, we can't have a developed country if we have a sick population. I would like to remind you of some statistics of the World Health Organisation, which, unfortunately, are not pleasant at all. The latest desperate statistics of the World Health Organization is that over 67% of children between 10 and 16 years of age are hypertensive. More than 15% of these children already suffer from childhood diabetes. Personally, I find it extremely uncomfortable when every year I have to look at some fundraising initiatives - I do not know what Bulgarian Christmas, I do not know what other fundraising initiative to send another child to treatment. Personally, I've been investigating the Fund for the Treatment of Children Abroad. I have to tell you, the data was desperate. It turned out that over 86 thousand were spent for a Bulgarian child. lv. for treatment in Bulgaria and finally we had to collect 10 thousand. BGN to send the child to Germany and in one month to return it brand new. Here's an example: spending, spending, spending! In other words, let's avoid quantitative indicators once and for all and step on quality indicators. It's a health card. Trust me, it needs to be introduced as quickly as possible. [[Heckling]] It is consistency between the Ministry of Health and the Health Insurance Fund. Personally, I have asked you the question that, according to the statements of the former, I can say already, President of the Health Insurance Fund over two thirds of the staff, according to her words, does not know the Bulgarian and specialized legislation on which they should work in the Health Insurance Fund. If it's true, it's extremely disturbing. It means 3 billion. 75 million. This year they are run by incompetent people. So you've already been put in an extremely delicate position to select the footage, and it's qualified personnel. It is no coincidence that in the questions I asked you in the Health Commission, I paid attention to some of the developed health care systems and, in particular, their health insurance systems and I pointed out to you the English health insurance fund. It is no different with the Austrian, German and Swedish, where, notice, more than 80% of the people who work in the health insurance sector are not medical persons and do not need to be. The best hospitals aren't run by doctors. A good surgeon should be in surgery, in surgery. The cardiologist should be in his office where he shows his abilities and saves lives. It is not his job to do management work. I pay attention to these things because it is precisely the expertise that you need to pay attention to. We expect that this year will be one of the first years in which the budget of the Health Insurance Fund will not be updated. Moreover, we expect this budget for the first year to report an excess.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u189	The Cashier's budget?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u190	Yeah. We expect and this should happen because 3 billion. 75 million. It's not a little money, and we can't afford another year of out-of-control spending. I hope your expertise is good enough to achieve these indicators. I know a lot of people are hoping that this summer will come up with a request to update this budget. Personally, I hope you disprove them. You will have full support in this direction on the side of the Patriotic Front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u191	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? Mrs. Kovatchka to speak. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u192	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Dr. Komitov, colleagues! The parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center will support Dr. Glinka Komitov's proposed candidacy as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. There are several reasons for this. First of all, people's expectations for changing and improving the management of the Cashier have increased. For more rational and transparent management of public funds of the Health Insurance Fund and more transparency of financial flows. The programme presented to the applicant, indicating rational and ambitious measures to improve the management and control of the funds provided to the performers of the medical activity, is encouraging. There is a demand for governance through consensus and preservation of what has been achieved by the previous leadership. Last but not least, no way can be ignored and unanimous approval of Dr. Glinka Komitov's candidacy by the Health Commission. Special attention requires transparency of financial flows in the Health Insurance Fund. Our deep conviction is that we can achieve a barrier here, restore trust in the system and reduce unnecessary costs. We believe that this is an organizational issue, but many can also help NGOs, patient organisations and, of course, the Doctor's Union. Regardless of the tools to achieve this goal, the new leadership will meet support from the Health Commission and the entire medical community in implementing such a policy. Control of spending funds from the Health Insurance Fund is a central problem. The way of his decision also depends on the success of the reforms proposed by the future leadership. This control can only be effective if it is carried out by highly qualified, motivated and independent professionals. The radical solution requires a new module to be found. The management of the NHIF must propose the necessary administrative, organisational and legislative solutions. New solutions should also be sought on the quality control of the medical services performed. The current methodologies are hopelessly outdated and are in no way linked to the motivation and payment of the activity carried out. We understand the complexity of the problem, but it will not solve itself and will require further efforts on the part of the new leadership. Colleagues, leadership is an influence and we hope that the new governor of the NHIF will have a positive impact on the process of consolidating the management of the casata and its confidence will lead to change, higher efficiency and transparency for achieving the final result. Dear colleagues, perhaps not only here in the Chamber, in the country, among our colleagues, we ask the question: why is there only one application for director of the NHIF? Why didn't another doctor-Economist fellow dare to do it? We need to give a clear picture of the real situation in which Dr. Glinka Komitov will head the National Health Insurance Fund if we all give this confidence today. We know that in plenary it was promised by the Minister of Health that the Casa budget will not be updated. However, from now on, there is talk of a review of the budget in June 2015. The changes in the Insurance Act do not need to repeat what colleagues have said before me, for inaccuracies in the development of indicators, for checks on patients' satisfaction, for the collection of patients who have not paid up so far, all this creates an environment of uncertainty and perhaps this partly explains that only Dr. Komitov in this difficult environment assumes this huge challenge to run for director of the National Health Insurance Fund. On behalf of the Bulgarian Democratic Center we wish him courage! If he implements his programme, we hope to see real reform by controlling the counterparties of the Cashier. And not only that, we will control the activities of the Casa itself in the distribution of budgets in the 28 districts of the Republic of Bulgaria. The distribution of budgets to hospitals in each area shall be transparent, prominent and explained to hospital managers. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u193	Thank you, Dr. Kovachka. - What's the line? I don't see anyone who wants to. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Dr. Hassan Ademov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u194	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Komitov? The procedure for the selection of the governor of the National Health Insurance Fund suggests that all topics concerning the healthcare system should be included in the discussion. That's why I'm going to try to get back to the topic of today's choice, and it's the choice of manager of the National Health Insurance Fund. I would like to remind the MPs that the National Assembly will shortly elect the 16th consecutive governor of the National Health Insurance Fund within only 15 years. You must be asking yourself why I'm saying all this. Perhaps to remind the popular story that before the Ministry of Health and before the National Health Insurance Fund the queue goes very quickly. I say this because within 15 years of 2000 they have been selected and managed the National Health Insurance Fund 15 the manager will now choose the 16th. This means that an average annual management of a manager of the National Health Insurance Fund. The rules of procedure adopted by the National Assembly have determined that, Dr. Komitov, you should be presented as a candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. It's not your fault, of course, you're the only candidate. It is obvious that the other political parties represented in the National Assembly, who legally have the right to propose candidates for governors of the NHIF, have not dared to offer their own applications because they believe that, based on the practice of recent years, the guillotine of the parliamentary majority ultimately determines the governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. I say with regret what has happened over the years, but it is about to happen now. I hope that no one in this House has already made enough serious arguments to support this, there is no doubt about the expertise that Dr. Glinka Komitov has. I, as Dr. Raynov, can say that I have worked, albeit not immediately, with Dr. Komitov for many years when he was at the beginning Deputy Director of the NHIF, and then undergraduate. He worked as director of the Regional Health Insurance Fund in Sofia, he was the director of municipal medical institutions, which gives him a serious business card and gives him the courage and confidence to run for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. But that's not the problem. It's not the problem with his qualifications. The problem is completely different. Dear colleagues, by law and by definition, the National Health Insurance Fund is a public institution that manages public financial resources. It was said that for this year it will manage 3 billion. 75 million. lv. This is the amount set out in the NHIF budget for 2015. The National Health Insurance Fund, I repeat, is by definition a public institution. This means that there must be public control to spend the money. With what is proposed in the legislation with the Health Insurance Act, which has been submitted by the Council of Ministers and has already been voted in the Committee on Health, National Health Insurance Fund and the Supervisory Board are practically held because two other representatives of the state are proposed to participate in the management of the National Health Insurance Fund, in the supervision of the Casa. This means that, in practice, from now on, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance are the ones who will manage and take the management decisions, because it is the director of the NHIF who must implement the decisions of the Supervisory Board of the Casa, and they will be taken in the Minister's office. Because the political cabinet practically moved to the Supervisory Board because two Deputy Health Ministers and one Deputy Minister of Finance are in the Supervisory Board of the NHIF. This makes the presence of the other employers, trade unions, patient organizations completely unnecessary, because decisions will be taken only with the participation of the six representatives of the state. And the governor of the NHIF will be obliged to execute these decisions as it is written in the law. What the manager does is not make politics. He implements the decisions of the Supervisory Board of the Casa, he implements the Health Insurance Act, he implements the National Framework Treaty. These are the main things the NHIF manager is involved with. It is precisely because the National Health Insurance Fund as a public institution is subject to public law that it is well, dear Minister, your lawyers, that those who understand something of this matter should turn to the texts of art. 71 of the Convention No 102 of the International Labour Organisation, where something very simple is said: The public institutions are governed on a triparty principle. The State and participants of the State in these structures must attract all other participants in the health insurance system in order to be able to allocate responsibility to more entities and not to weigh solely and solely on those represented in the Supervisory Board. This is a very important issue, but I suppose it is the subject of the other law that is to be dealt with, perhaps next week. It is precisely because the Health Insurance Fund is a public institution, honourable colleagues from GERB, who are importers of the proposal Dr. Glinka Komitov to be governor of NHIF, that you missed a golden opportunity to hold consultations between the parliamentary represented political forces. Because this is a public institution, health contributions pay all Bulgarian citizens, employers, insured persons, the state pays at least, namely 978 million. lv. for this year. You have missed this golden opportunity to provide wider support and hence greater transparency and representation of the election of the new governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. If you had done so, we from our parliamentary group, based on Dr. Komitov's expertise, would have supported this application. You did not take advantage of Mr. Prime Minister Boyko Borisov's call, who said it was necessary and it is high time there was a new level of political debate, a new culture of political debate. If you had taken advantage of this procedure and these recommendations, perhaps the support for Dr. Komitov would have been completely different. Dear Dr. Komitov, you will be faced with another serious problem. This is the budget of the NHIF for 2015, in the preparation of which you have not participated. This budget is full of underwater stones, to call them conditional, with problems that will bloom, figuratively speaking, in a few months. Yesterday at the Council of Ministers it was said here that the methodology for the valuation and payment of medical activities in hospital and hospital care was adopted. There are huge problems there too. From there will follow the waiting lists, which will create problems of the National Health Insurance Fund and of course the Ministry of Health, as well as the Bulgarian Parliament and all Bulgarian citizens. What I would like to point out is that with this budget, with this Methodology, in the preparation of which you have not participated, you will have extremely serious challenges to overcome. When the National Health Insurance Fund goes through the so-called "Limits," you can't afford not to pay because you are legally obliged. All the healthcare establishments concerned will win the cases against the National Health Insurance Fund, so whether the budget will be spent or not will not depend on your decisions and your will, but on what we have adopted here depends on the measures the Minister of Health offers and how quality they will be. I would also like to say a few words about another problem that you will be facing, Dr. Komitov. You will be faced with another test, because you will have to use a popular recently political instrument called the Scraper. Your colleagues, our colleagues who will now support you in this choice, will insist on you scraping the representatives of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms from the management functions and places in the National Health Insurance Fund. [[Applause from PF.]] You are in a hurry, fellow Members of the Patriotic Front, to applaud, but now you will be disappointed, because this is another sector in which there is not a single representative of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Not a single representative! [[Applause from DPS.]] The masks are down, another myth is debunked! After the security sector, in this sector, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has no representation whatsoever. Representation will also wish the colleagues from the Reformation Block. They will want to replace all 28 regional directors of regional health insurance, because with them the thirst for power and governance is insatiable. Dear Dr. Komitov, all these concerns and problems I presented to you perfectly correctly as a sign of respect for your qualifications and as a sign that the National Assembly and all Bulgarian citizens should know what the problems you will be facing are. Because those who are now applauding and supporting you, when you come here to the Chamber for the update of the budget, will be the first to ask for your resignation. Then you'll have to remember what I'm saying right now. I want to wish Dr. Glinka Comitov once more good luck! I hope that you will succeed if you try to distance yourself and be equally distant from all political parties so that the National Health Insurance Fund can acquire its public image and Bulgarian citizens can receive a quality medical service. Thank you. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u195	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. For lines? Dr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u196	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Dr. Ademov, I address you as a man of many years of experience as a parliamentarians. I'll start with what you said about the scraper, as you claim to know Dr. Glinka Komitov. I would remind you that Dr. Glinka Komitov, as head of the Health Insurance Fund, in his three-year term, which he had, did not fire any representative of the Casata in three years. Moreover, regarding what was mentioned here, he was developing his footage. Dr. Ademov, I would like to share that the person who was injured and was politically fired was Dr. Komitov on the occasion of the scraper. So to talk here about politicality and concerns about political purges if you know Dr. Komitov, does not honor you! Secondly, I address you as a man of dignity. Here I address you to say: when are you honest and honest, as an MP and a representative of your political group? When did you vote in the Health Commission? Here I mean in front of everyone, it is also evident from the report read by Dr. Daritkova that you all unanimously approved Dr. Komitov?! When do you express your political voice in the Committee on Health? I'll be replicated here that this is a political decision. When we participate in our committees, do we not represent our political parties? Thank you. [[Applause and cheering by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u197	Thank you, Dr. Ivanov. Anyone else for a line? I can't see. Please, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Dr. Ivanov, for reminding me. I will remind my colleagues here that I have also worked quite a lot of time with Dr. Glinka Komitov and I have wonderful impressions of him. In this part of your line we are no different. I want to tell you that if what you say is true, and what will happen within his term, I will be the first to apologize from this tribune to Dr. Glinka Komitov. As for the fact that we voted in the Committee on Health Support for Dr. Glinka Komitov, Dr. Ivanov the problem is always in reading! Read carefully what we voted for! You didn't even understand what we voted on. [[Single applause from DPS.]] We voted Dr. Glinka "Dr. Daritkova" will tell you, read the text "We voted Dr. Glinka Komitov to be admitted to the plenary room for discussion and choice as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. There is no text anywhere in our vote whether or not we support it. Deal with what you voted for. I'm sorry you didn't understand what you voted for.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u199	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. The people's representative Nikolay Alexandrov has signed up for a speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u200	I should have said you both came from NDSV.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u201	You should have said that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u202	It's not too late.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, we of Ataka Party will not support the application due to a significant difference in the model. [[(Noise and ……]] The difference is that we don't think the model is good. If we're going to choose a director of the NHIF as an intermediary where people's health insurance money will go, excuse me, but we're against this model. For us, it is not normal for hospitals to call themselves companies and to continue this way! Every year in this Parliament, money for health care is constantly increasing in the direction of the NHIF. Every year or at least in the last year there have been budget updates. What my colleague from the Patriotic Front has also said, I am very surprised to see an excess in the budget, given that at the moment the Health Insurance Fund gives monthly limits for curing oncological ones. In the hospital in Varna the limit is 30 people per month. This is not how we preserve society's health, not even on the contrary! A large part of our society does not go preventively to research, and then we give more money for hospital treatment, which also comes at times more expensive. To the Committee on Budget and Finance, the previous President of the Health Fund Rumyana Todorova said very clearly that if the money in the budget of NHIF were more for prevention, for hospital aid, we would significantly reduce the amount of the budget, but we do not. We also expected to hear about reforms from the health minister. What is the reform here that we will move the Health Insurance Fund to the Ministry of Finance?! That's pretty much it. If there is going to be real reform, it is better instead of changing the model to have two people from the Ministry and one president of the Health Insurance Fund, who will be elected by the Chamber, let us make the Health Insurance Fund become a department in the Ministry of Health! In this way there will be reform, we will have changed the model and we will actually be able to talk about a completely different way of health care. I understand very well that there are many problems in health care. I can't think of a country in the world that doesn't have significant health problems. A number of governments are struggling to solve these particular problems. [[GERB lines.]] The Bulgarian experience or at least what we have seen from the Party of Attack in the last 15 years shows that we are not dealing with the problem, even on the contrary, we are deepening it. In some diseases, we're even record makers in quotes, so to speak, if I'm not mistaken, because we're second in the world in cardiovascular diseases. From now on, if we can't cure the nation, how can we... That's what I need to tie him to the economy. A lot of people don't make that difference. If we don't have a healthy society that can actually be economically active, we can't raise any more money that we can then give to health care. There are examples, there are many models in the world economy that explore these particular dependencies, however they are not studied with us. Yes, every year we read in the newspapers, practically every month you can read in the Bulgarian newspaper about a big scandal. lv. responsibilities! Why?! That's what this room did years ago, isn't it?! Let's change the pattern! Why would we account for 100 million every month? lv. obligations, are we gonna explain every month that there are health issues?! Are we solving the problem, or are we deepening it?! If we carry it with us somehow, we won't do anything. Minister, really changes and reforms in the sector are significant. I think in Mr. Borisov's previous cabinet three or four ministers have gone along this line. However, if you are really going to reform and really hold on to your words that at the center of your government as a minister will be the patient, put the patient in! Do not put the trade again, because this is the continuation of the old model and the continuation of the trade in health! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u204	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. - What's the line? I can't see. The People's Representative Maya Manolova has the floor. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u205	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Dear Mr. Komitov, the fact is that health policy is being formed and conducted by the Minister of Health, the Health Insurance Fund and its boss are implementing this policy. What the National Health Insurance Fund is doing is distributing public money in health care, and perhaps for this reason the main expectations for you were given in terms of how much money is, whether it is sufficient and with the expectation that this calendar year the budget of the Health Insurance Fund will not happen. Moreover, spells have been cast on your behalf from this tribune that you will not be the initiator of an update of this budget after the health minister, even at the adoption of the Casa budget, spit that he will not want such an update. So, instead of you, representatives of the ruling majority have repeated it several times, we will not ask for an update of the Cashier, we will realise not a deficit but an excess. What I expect from you is to confirm it in a personal capacity of this tribune, and I am doing it for a reason not in order to pick on you, but in order to make sure that you have really been informed of the state of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. By the way, this can do not just any MP, but also every Bulgarian citizen, and there the information is alarming. It is about this: only medicines, if we divide the budget of the Cashier on a monthly basis, what is planned to be spent is within 45 million. lv. Only the Cashier in the first months of this calendar year and last year spent an average of 53 million. lv. I mean, it's about 100 million. lv. a deficit that is initially at stake and is not about overcosting, so 100 million. lv. minimum of red medicines will light the Cashier at the end of this calendar year. If we look at hospital care, divided on a monthly basis, what is due to hospitals is about 142 million. lv. What is paid for hospital care for December last year is 155 million, for January 157, expectations for February are also within 160 million. lv. I mean, 200 million. lv. The safe will only be lit in hospital care. If we look at hospital care, since it is more complicated with numbers, I will only quote the letter of a doctor from Smolyan, a pediatrician who alarms that because of the way the directions for hospitalized specialized medical care will be distributed there will be children in March who will not be able to use such directions. [[Laughter at Minister Petar Moskov.]] Well, meet the pediatricians of Smolyan, dear Mr. Moskov. Yes, it is very easy in plenary to make faces and show disregard for what is said by the parliamentary platform. In fact, in fairy tales you are very good, perfect you are determined, consistent, reformer, but somehow in actions until now we have not seen it. I hope you'll correct me by the end of this calendar year at least. So this is the situation and I expect that Dr. Komitov is more responsible than the health minister, as this will be his commitment and from this parliamentary tribune will state whether there is concern about the budget of the Casa and whether it will really ensure that it does not come to it that he himself asks for an update of this budget. Since the second topic, which is present in the speech of the Health Ministry, including in today's debate, is the topic of control, perhaps we should say a few words in this direction. If you understand the control within the framework of yesterday's decree approving the methodology for assessing medical activities, then I will tell you that this is the easiest, most ineffective and most unfair way of control. What's this about? According to the methodology that has been adopted yesterday, hospitals will be paid within solid limits, no over-liminal payment will be allowed, and if we rely on the numbers that I have quoted so far, it can be said from now on that by the 20th of the month the hospitals will no longer have money for payment of medical activities, that is to say they will have exhausted their limit and will weigh on them the ban on the last ten days of the month for payment of this activity that they will carry out. And here comes the question: if hospitals refuse to perform this activity, they will obviously have to form lists of waiting patients. As a lawyer, I'm interested, dear Minister, I suppose the parliamentary tribune is more important than the plenary ceiling. [[M Minister Moskov looks at the balconies, raging]] and I expect to hear your answer to this question, namely: how will the lists of waiting be defined and legally defined, how will it be assessed which patients are to be included in these lists, which diseases and ultimately who will take responsibility if a comparatively less dangerous diagnosis of life is caused by complications? This question excites not only me as a citizen and as a national representative, but also the directors of hospitals, because they are also shy and shy like Mrs. Daritkova when it comes to relations with the Casa [[GRUNTING AND GERB PLAYING]] and to fight money that is needed for the functioning of their hospitals. And the question is, if there are going to be waiting lists...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u206	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u207	... it is normal to have a clear legal basis for what rules will they be structured? If not, the question of hospital bosses and doctors who work in hospital care is: who will pay them the work they have done to save lives? And is it appropriate that an activity that has been carried out is not paid off? Perhaps there is a thought in this idea, there is a good intention to limit the abuse of money in hospital care, but it should be defined, it should be clear and not harm those hospital administrations who do their job in good faith and ultimately be in the service of the Bulgarian patients. So the answer I expect from you and Dr. Komitov is related to two things. Regarding the state of the budget of the Health Insurance Fund: do you have, dear Mr. Komitov, concerns about how he will reach within this year for the planned activities for payment? Secondly, in the context of yesterday's adopted methodology for assessing medical activities, how will they be formed and on what principles will the lists of waiting patients be formed so that there is justice in relation to them?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u208	Mrs. Manolova, the time limit of BSP left Bulgaria is over. Would you like an extension?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u209	Yes, please extend it. I'm done. I expect an answer to these questions. Not me, but the doctors in hospital care, first of all, and of course the patients.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u210	Thank you. For lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u211	Take the word in the manner of conduct, not the line, so you'll give her the word again.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u212	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Members of the National Assembly! We are currently looking at the candidacy of the head of the Health Insurance Fund. We are not doing an analysis of the health care in Bulgaria. Such a budget, I think, was soon done. Then there was a lot of talk about health care, with all its weaknesses and with all its positives. I didn't hear, and I doubt there will be any of us, colleagues, to question the professional qualities of Dr. Glinka Komitov, given his biography. In this regard, perhaps one of you Members of the National Assembly should take note. Since they asked Mr. Komitov some questions, I think it's okay, instead of scratching our tongues here, to give him the floor and let him answer the questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u213	Is that a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u214	It's a line, yeah. [[Reply from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]] No, it's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u215	Please don't enter the room. Go on, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u216	At least to our group he presented his views on these issues and the people who understand healthcare in our group fully appreciated his programme. My request is, fellow Members, let's not have a second health debate here. It lasted nearly two hours ago. It was only a month ago. I think we're gonna let him take a stand from this tribune, and the next thing you know, we're gonna vote for his candidacy, and it's indisputable. With football terminology, when you have Messi, everyone is looking to take him on their team and correct the weaknesses in this team. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u217	Thank you. Here you go, if you like.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u218	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! I don't question the qualities of Mr. Glinka Komitov. I don't know him, but from what we've heard from doctors and employees in the system, he's really a quality, educated, competent and prepared candidate for the head of the National Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u219	Like any member of GERB!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u220	I can't argue with that. I don't want to argue with that. But anyway, Dr. Komitov will have to conduct the health policy of GERB [[SIGHS]] I thank you for the hint, and Minister Moskov in the Health Insurance Fund. He will have to comply with the budget parameters that he was voted on by Parliament, with the guidelines provided by the Health Ministry, with the decisions of the Supervisory Board. That is why I think it is normal for the person who will implement this policy of the ruling majority in the Health Insurance Fund to answer certain questions and we to be calm that he is aware of what awaits him in the Health Insurance Fund. On the other hand, to make certain commitments. In fact, a tone for such expectations was set precisely by the Patriotic Front with Mr. Bajraktarov's statement that here an update of the budget of the Casa will not happen and that Dr. Komitov will say this in advance. So I also hold very much, and I think that Bulgarian patients and doctors will also want to hear the future head of the Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. The people's representative Mrs. Dukova has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u222	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! I realize that you should learn a little from Mrs. Tsacheva in this attempt to lead the Assembly [[CHEERING IN GERB]] Even more so when colleagues from Left Bulgaria come out! Some people have their lives on the stage in jokes and pranks, others have Shakespeare monologues, third intrigued, fourth inquired about what they're doing here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u223	I don't think that's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u224	Yeah, yeah, that's it, that insult that happens to a minister when you don't have his powers; to a committee chairman when you don't have his powers anymore. [[Laughter in GERB]] ; when you reach their qualities when you have a capacity, and you're not a specialist in everything, understand anything. [[Laughter and applause from GERB]] You have no right to insult the MPs in this House like that! So I ask you to take the floor, because she will not give it back. [[Laughter at GERB.]] Just take it from her, or else we'll be sitting here making fun of each other, and we're here for another very important job. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u225	Mrs. Dukova, the leadership of today's plenary session will take an act of your procedure. Mr. Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u226	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, dear Dr. Komitov! Somewhere in the 15th minute, I regretted being here because apparently from my presence, squadrons are starting to fly, and it somehow affects the procedure for choosing the governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. After the NSI, this is the second big public fund. We're choosing a man who's operationally in charge of over 3 billion. lv. I'll say a few words in the specific procedure, but I'll take the floor and allow me to...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u227	I hope it's the procedure, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u228	Yes, Madam President, but there have been a lot of political suggestion on the back of the majority and on the back of the government. I must react with all my good attitude and understanding that an opposition should probably behave like this. I really don't understand, Dr. Ademov, how the Cashier's budget for this year is full of underwater stones, and you are against it against the backdrop of the fact that last year, under a budget of 300 million less you voted for..... and were part of the government that brought it in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u229	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u230	There are obvious numbers. We are not going to argue about the 2014 budget and the 2015 budget tabled whether or not they get away with 300 million. I mean, I don't understand this as logic, human, medical, mathematical. Perhaps I will make a very strong impression in some of you by saying the following. The regulatory framework of the Waiting List has been a fact for many years in the Bulgarian legal peace. It is related to the Regulation on access and was adopted in 2007. To correct me someone who made the decisions then? There is nothing scary about it, it is quite logical... both then and now no one should make dividends without understanding things to the end. If part of us said "us," I include myself including, were barely half of the books that a person, such as Dr. Komitov, wrote on matters of health insurance and financial flow control in health care, the health debate here would be at a different level. It's a satisfaction to me because, frankly, I'm behind Dr. Komitov's candidacy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u231	We'll see how long.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u232	Essentially, nothing was said about this choice. On the contrary, good words have been said by each of the representatives, regardless of the overall assessment of management policy. I mean, I'm really asking you to step out of this procedure with something good to say that a reasonable, good, qualified person has been chosen to run an important sector. There are not quite such a large series of cases where in the Bulgarian Parliament they choose quality people for important places. Don't take things back a year. Mr. Ataka's representative directly quotes.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You'll hear from Dr. Komitov. You won't be impressed, enchanted, enchanted. Dr. Komitov is a tough guy, tough. Within the framework of the elaborate political passions in this room may seem a little dry, a little out of place perhaps, only that the place of such people is right in the management of our money for the benefit of patients. Thank you for the support of Komitov's candidacy from all the groups who expressed this. Thanks also for the good words from the opposition. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u233	Are there any Members of Parliament willing to take part in the debate? We're closing the debate. According to the rules of procedure, Dr. Komitov has the opportunity to answer the questions asked to him or to express his views on those expressed by the parliamentary platform within 10 minutes. Mr. Komitov, come in. [[Replications between MP Hasan Ademov and Minister Petar Moskov.]] Please, no lines. Let's give Dr. Komitov an opportunity to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u234	Thank you, Madam President. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u235	Please, no lines. Let's give Mr. Komitov a chance and let's hear his answers to the questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u236	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My presence in this Chamber almost obliges me to say the following: The National Health Insurance Fund will strictly implement the Bulgarian and European legislation, to begin with. The mission of the Cashier, which I will try to follow, is to manage and spend the public funds collected through health insurance contributions, but in a way that is public, transparent, fully transparent for any citizen who wants to be informed, for example, through the website of the National Health Insurance Fund, where the funds collected for this purpose are going. And one more thing in the mission is that everyone who works in the system of the National Health Insurance Fund, in its regional health insurance funds, will be required to respect the dignity of everyone who has sought assistance in this system, regardless of their political beliefs, nationality, ethnicity, property status. This is what will be included in the mission of the National Health Insurance Fund. With regard to the main priority that I bet as an idea in the possible management of the National Health Insurance Fund from now on, this undoubtedly... I won't mention names, Madam President, in connection with art. 57, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I hope that if you look at it, however, it will not cause, say, a reply or a personal explanation. So the priority I bet will be control. That's why I said some of you mentioned it here a few times. Control has different dimensions, but my idea is to closely monitor control in two fields of one, but by law, under the current regulations, the National Health Insurance Fund is quite limited. These two directions are as follows: cost control and quality control. I may even include here, Mr Minister, if I may now ask, in the proposals under the Law for amendment and supplement of the Health Insurance Act, and to you as people who will eventually vote on the amendment of the Law, ladies and gentlemen of the National Health Insurance Fund, to extend the powers in this regard by giving the regulated right and the opportunity of the National Health Insurance Fund to carry out quality control. If anyone is interested, I can share my views on how to do this. And the strategic goal of not forgetting. The strategic objective must be the National Health Insurance Fund indeed, as one of you said, to be a major tool, but a major tool not to what some of you have been talking about so far, but a major tool to achieve the improvement of health indicators, health indicators. After all, it is from the activities of the National Fund, of course, in sync with all those working in the sector................................................................................................................................................................ At the same time, I would not forget if I were elected, of course, as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, that the National Insurance Fund, despite its autonomy, is relative, however, is a public-law entity that operates in the general health system, which is actually governed by the rules of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Health and from now on I consider the National Health Insurance Fund to comply with this, rather than to be a second centre of power in this sector. Regarding the really important issues that have been raised by some of you. Like I said, I'll look at you so I don't mention names. Somehow it is written on the legal basis, in the legislative framework, it is written that the Bulgarian citizen is almost entitled to everything in the health system and should be provided with it. This is what is written down, but this is not in line with the financial resource that is provided by all of us, as another Member, from the economy of the country, from the gross domestic product, so that it can cover all these activities with regard to the financial resource. This first macrogram, if I may say so, naturally, leads to the macrorama and the budget which you have adopted as MPs, in the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Act. In addition to the adoption of this framework, of course, it gives one frame and the subsequent actions that could be carried out and by, say, the signature of the Casa Governor, where they should be managed, I pay attention to this word once more, and not only spend those funds on health insurance contributions. However, I would like to confirm again here that although it was asked by one of you a question: how will it be compensated, for example, the difference of approximately 400 million. lv. For hospital care, shall we say? I'm talking about hospital care and medicine, because that's where the big deficit is formed. Hospital care and drug spending always form the large deficit of those 15 years that some of you have been talking about. That there will be a disaster, there is talk of this every year, 15 years we still expect a major disaster in healthcare and a deficit almost always is, except for the first few years when there was really a surplus, because, also this was mentioned, the surplus was set at the beginning, even when the National Health Insurance Fund adopted its budget. And it had an excess, on the one hand, because there were few activities that were covered, which increased 714%, that is, 7.14 times the activities since the beginning, since the establishment in 1999 of the National Health Insurance Fund, have been increased 7.14 times so far. Yes, the resource is also increased, but if we take the hospital aid this resource, which at the beginning was 200,000. lv. And now it's $1 billion. 340 million. BGN is increased 641%, that is, still a little less than the activity, and every day everyone wants, whatever activity appears, to enter and be paid by the Cashier. And that, I suppose, is no secret to you. To continue my thinking that I want to ensure the following: every patient, I will speak for explainable reasons, which I have just explained, about hospitals, about hospital care, which is reviewed under the rules agreed, because from now on, I hope that the contractual start will be mandatory in the work of the National Health Insurance Fund in the sector, so that those agreed between word organizations, if you will and pharmaceuticals, but there is no longer a formal contract, if the diagnostic and therapeutic procedures are met under these conditions, every such patient will be paid as he has ever been. Because there hasn't been any unpaid activity done on a patient in the relevant statement. That's what I guarantee from this tribune. I do not wish to concentrate on the more general numbers, which is done and will be done for sure from now on, because the full name of the methodology that you mentioned is not exactly a methodology for valuation, but a methodology for valuation and payment of medical care. In it, just yesterday, while the other day, when there was a hearing, it was not adopted by the Council of Ministers and I had no clarity whether these particular texts would be adopted, several options were set, how can I say, not exactly to be able to talk about fixed budgets. Of course the hospital hospital managers...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u237	I'm asking you to focus on completion, Dr. Komitov. Time's up for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u238	I'm done. They must be aware of the financial framework in order to know approximately what to navigate towards. Approximately! However, if there is an urgent need to carry out any activities, even though the budget of the hospital concerned is already running out, here is one option. If necessary, it can take 5% from next month, make up for them really next month, but it can be expected that there will be no such cases next month. A third possibility, with an arrangement with the Medical Union, may be additionally allocated from the Reserve of the Cashier. You must know that for the first time this year, two thirds of it is already exhausted and of 300 million it is 111 million, as 190 million are given for the first quarter, although in the rules and in the Health Insurance Act in art. 26, para. 2 is written down that only if there are...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u239	Let's respect the rules, Dr. Komitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u240	...extraordinary and uneven spending of funds. I don't see how in a month this can be established. With those few words, I think I've answered most of the questions I could remember. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-12.u241	For which I thank you. Colleagues, I recall the draft decision before we proceed to the vote. Please, if there are MPs in the towers, visit the Chamber and exercise their right to vote. Project! DECISION on the election of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 19th para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act HAS DECIDED He chose Glinka Dimov Komitov as the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund. Voting mode. They voted 146 MPs: 117, against 22, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. [[Applause.]] Congratulations, Dr. Komitov. Parliamentary Control Communication on 13 March 2015, Friday 11:00: Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin will answer two questions from the MPs Dimitar Gechev and Svetlana Angelova. Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer 14 questions from the MPs Stanislav Stanilov, Dimitar Shishkov [[two questions]] , Dzhevdet Chakarov [[two questions]] , Jayhan Ibryamov, Georgi Kadiev, Christian Vigenin and Emil Raynov, Valentin Nikolov Ivanov, Emil Raynov [[two questions]] , Georgi Turnovaliski, Teodora Georgieva, and Maya Manolova, and a question from the MPs Kristian Vigenin and Maya Manolova. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer 15 questions from the MPs Borislav Iglev, Mihail Mikov, Zhelyo Boychev and Georgi Svilenski, Petar Slavov, Willi Lilkov [[two questions]] , Maya Manolova, Cornelia Ninova, Petar Ivanov Petrov, Kalina Balabanov, Valentin Nikolov Ivanov, Zdravko Dimitrov, Ivan Valkov, Chavdar Georgiev, Durhan Mustafa, and Dzhevdet Chakarov and Mehmed Ataman. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer five questions from the MPs Ivan Stankov and Georgi Kuchukov [[two questions]] , Dimitar Delchev, and Stefan Kenov. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer four questions from the MPs Stanislav Stanilov, Desislav Chukolov, Krasimir Yankov, and Cornelia Marinova. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer three questions from the MPs Volen Siderov, Miho Mihov, and Petar Slavov. The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev will answer three questions from the MPs Kalina Balabanova, Plamen Manushev, Krasimir Petrov and Pavel Hristov a common question, and Borislav Iglev, and a question from the National Representative Boyka Marinska. Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer a question from the MP Slavcho Atanasov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the HNS delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - the Minister of the Interior of a question with a written answer from the National Representative Ilian Todorov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Petar Hristov Petrov; - Minister of Culture Vezhdi Rashidov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Metodi Andreev; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Lyubomir Vladimirov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to two questions from the MPs Slavcho Binev, and Velizar Enchev; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to two questions from the National Representative Georgi Bozhinov; - Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski to two questions from the MPs Lyubomir Vladimirov, and Dobrin Danev; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov to two questions from the National Representative Vladimir Toshev; - Minister of Agriculture and Foods Desislava Taneva to two questions from the MPs Boris Yachev, and Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to two questions from the MPs Lyubomir Vladimirov, and Yanaki Stoilov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question by the National Representative Mariana Georgieva. On the basis of art. 92, para. 4 of the PSC for the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the reply shall be postponed to: - a question from the MP Slavi Binev to the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev. Due to the country's absence in the parliamentary control session, Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova, Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov, Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov will not participate. For health reasons, the Minister of Culture Vecdi Rashidov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting for the use of leave for health reasons. Due to the use of paid annual leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister for Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will not participate. Due to a planned meeting of an international nature, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Tomorrow a regular meeting will be held at 9:00 p.m. I'm shutting down the plenary day. [[PHONE RINGING]]
