ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. Please register. There is a quorum [[Ringing]] I am opening the plenary session. Let's start with: INSTALLATION BY A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. Dear MPs, by Decision No 2930 "НС" of 12 November 2015, the Central Election Commission issued a decision on the declaration of Hristo Grudev Grudev as MP from the Seventeenth Election Region. With a letter in my letter. Decision of the National Assembly on 11 November 2015 was received by the CEC on 11 November 2015, which, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of Zdravko Dimitrov Dimitrov as a MP from the Seventeenth Election Region of Plovdiv, erected from the list of the political party GERB in the Forty-third National Assembly. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code and in relation to the decision of the CEC No 2929 "НС" of 12 November 2015 I'm sorry. I'm He declared Hristo Grudev Grudev with EGN... respectively as the MP in the Forty-third National Assembly from the list of the political party GERB from the Seventeenth Election Region of Plovdivski. The Quaestors, invite Mr. Grudev to take an oath. Repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u2	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u3	Congratulations! [[Applause. Minister Moskovski enters.]] Welcome to Minister Moskovski. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF LAW-PRODUCTION AND COMPLIANCE OF LAW FOR LOCAL TAXES AND TAXES. The following MPs spoke yesterday: Georgi Svilenski, Menda Stoyanova and Iskren Veselinov. The groups have the following time: GERB 24 minutes and 6 seconds, BSP left Bulgaria 7 minutes and 14 seconds, DPS For speaking to yesterday we had reached Mr. Yordan Tsonev. After him, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! In fact, yesterday's discussion showed several very important things not only in relation to the submitted bill, but also in general with the way the parliamentary tax campaign is going, as we call it, before the budget one. The conclusions that we can make from yesterday, from what happened, is that there is no order in the introduction of tax proposals and laws in this autumn, that the violation of the usual parliamentary practice "all tax laws to be introduced significantly before the budget is put in place and imported by the Council of Ministers to see as a whole what is the government's concept of tax changes for the next year, reflected in the budget, is the right method, the right way of action. This law, tabled by MPs, actually provokes a debate, controversy not because it is essentially conceptually wrong, but because it does not reflect the overall view of the cabinet on this type of reform. The substance of the bill. The DPS Parliamentary Group has voted in the Commission abstention. We will vote this way today not because we believe that the patent tax is not applicable to this group, this category of business, but because it is not sufficiently bound by regulation in the relevant Law which regulates this activity. Firstly, it showed shortcomings in the Law adopted a month ago, and there is no denying, among other things, that the tax revenues of this type of activity are too modest for the scale of the employed in this area. I would like to remind everyone here that, in fact, since the introduction of the patent tax until 2007, the taxi services It was then canceled because of the disproportions in large and small cities, large and small settlements, as in large this activity is quite profitable and in small ones not particularly, and for this reason the Bulgarian Parliament decided that this category of business will come out of the tax Pattent and will remain in the payment of corporate tax, like everyone else. The result then, the fiscal result is zero, but here we also have to take into account the fact that what my colleagues said yesterday that, as is currently set out in the Rules of Procedure for the activities of these people in the Law, also allows for the avoidance of VAT payments if we accept the patent tax today. And I ask: why a month ago, like here colleagues from the Transport Commission, Mr. Svilenski, the other colleagues, said: "We have been so hard to accept and so on, but why did you accept to have the opportunity to work as leasing companies? Why didn't you forbid them? This is obviously a tax evasion. It is obvious that it is a burden on those who exercise this activity, namely the drivers themselves, to be loaded with both work and leasing contributions and taxes at the expense of those who own the actual road transport. And now this is what you argue as an argument against this tax first. And, secondly, we call the transport minister when, to remind you, we look at tax law if it has to do with the regulation of this type of activity, but we look at tax law. So this is where the Minister of Finance should be, if we're supposed to be holding on to this, but we're calling the Minister of Transport because we have a flaw in that law we're bragging about right now here, a month or two later. In general, the work is a piece of.. makes a detailed law for a certain type of activity and then it is understood that it does not actually serve the fiscal objectives to this type of activity, but is just like that. I call on: this Bill, we of the DPS will not vote for it on the ground that the activity must be fiscally regulated because it is not currently and is being circumvented. Not to mention other defects in this service of the population, because this is not the place and it is not when discussing tax law to discuss such things. I call on those who have imported it to withdraw it because it causes this Law tension and the way it is made does not help regulate the activity and the tax laws at all. We see a practice, I recently looked at the website of the Ministry of Health. Somehow the tax laws seem to be being made by the Treasury Department, but here something started to confuse both functions and concepts and so on. It is good to bring order to this whole system, because this is not only the regulation of activity, but also the fisca. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Do you have any lines, fellow Members of the National Assembly? No. To speak, the people representative Tasco Ermenkov. After him is the national representative Zhelyo Boychev and Velizar Enchev after him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is strange when, in an amendment to the Law on Road Transport, which is actually the topic I want to speak about, discuss and defend or reason on them by people who specialize in finance and who have some other specialization in energy, but at the same time I do not see either Mr. Valkov here or Mr. Mihov here who were importers of the previous Law, which we are currently discussing and who should defend this position. At the same time, I do not see Mr. Stanislav Ivanov, who is the importer of the current amendment. He's not here either. [[Comments from GERB: He is on sick leave.]] I don't know where he is, I'm just saying they're gone and there's no one to protect those, on the one hand...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u7	She's on sick leave.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u8	All right, fine, let's make him sick. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm just saying that there are no people to protect these proposals. I hope, however, that the Minister will at some point take account of these changes in road transport. I will not dwell on the tax side of the Local Taxes and Fees Act, because it is the government that has the right to determine fiscal policy. The rulers are the ones who have the right to say what money they will raise from the people. I'm not the one who's gonna sue them. The people will judge them by their actions.. whether they are loading it, whether they are loading it and what happens in the end with the prices of taxis and those who drive it. But I would just like to refer to that supplement in § 6, where authorized persons are also given the opportunity to carry out a taxi service, a taxi service, when we already have one Law which has been passed and which must enter into force on 21 November. What's going on, guys, right now? Currently we have large taxi companies that are actually leasing companies that currently issue powers to the drivers concerned, oblige them to buy the cars on lease at one price that is not the normal leasing price. She's at least one and a half times taller. They make them carry out their own tests and conduct their technical examinations on this power of attorney. They pay all kinds of taxes if they pay anything. Leasing companies only collect the money and have a single obligation to a large extent and this is to provide the radio frequency on which taxi orders are made. Everything else is at the expense of the driver, everything else is on his back. What was proposed by the previous Law.. only to remind you, and which was adopted unanimously in the Transport Committee was to appoint these drivers to work in the transport companies. If they want and do not intend to be assigned to work there, they have the opportunity to register in some form. Perhaps it should be considered whether this can be done in a slightly easier way so that those companies who will carry out transport activities are not exempt from VAT, Mr. Tsonev. On the contrary, by paying the tax that is envisaged now, they are not exempt from VAT. They will accumulate their turnover very quickly and will pay VAT. And this is the idea of this change to lighten the business, to pay more taxes. And I cannot understand what this consistency is in the policies that take place when importers of a proposal from a parliamentary group receive the support of the entire parliament, this Law enters into force, this Law is published and it must enter into force after ten days. At the same time, colleagues from this same parliamentary majority are making changes that deny what has already come into force. Is there a consistency in that? Is there any politics? Does he have any vision? And here I fully agree, Mr. Tsonev, that the impression is really being created that the tax laws in Bulgaria are being played in pieces at the moment. Someone thought somewhere he could skin another skin from the poor guy, decided he could do it, offered it here, and because there's a majority, it's accepted. Colleagues, let's still take the most important laws seriously, these are tax laws, because they determine not only how much money there will be in the Treasury pocket, but how much money will be left to people to live. Be reasonable! Do not enter into the easy scheme to collect as much money as possible at the moment, no matter how much remains with people. The Fisk was not made to serve the state and the public administration. Fisk is designed to create favorable conditions for people. It is a tool for stimulating certain activities. It is an instrument for people to live, to create conditions, security, guarantees for that security. Neither is happening right now. And I call on the Minister to take the attitude, however, because he is the professional who here can tell us what happens to taxi transports if this amendment is adopted, which is currently being proposed in § 6. And if that is true, why is it still necessary to make this amendment, why exactly one month ago did we adopt a completely different Law with quite other decisions? The Bulgarian Socialist Party will not support this Law because, as I said, on the one hand, the tax side of the issue, we cannot agree to skin people's skin again, and on the other hand we believe that there should be consistency in politics and once we have voted something, there is no way we can turn back a month later. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Ermenkov, obviously either I didn't make myself clear, or you didn't understand me either, but it's a fact that you misunderstand me. There is a need to regulate the taxation of this category of people in a fair way. The way you did the Law doesn't suggest that. They have to pick up speed, but they don't, Mr. Ermenkov. They don't report and they don't pay corporate tax! Do you understand? Look at the last seven-eight years. They don't pay, they hide! Socially weak, what they are, I don't know, but the Fisk can't handle working socially weak. Whoever works has to pay their taxes. That is why I told you that your Law was not well done and that now this attempt to patent the industry shows not the shortcomings of patent taxation, but the shortcomings that you have made in the regulation of this business. If you had banned the leasing form of exercise de facto by large companies, it would now be easy for the individual driver who takes a car that works hard and will have to pay 40 BGN per month. tax. So is the patent tax less than BGN 40. a month. If he can't make 40 leva. In a month, I think there are other professions, it doesn't have to be behind the wheel. But now that it's done so in the Constitutional Law, how does it work? They must account for turnover and pay corporate tax. They don't account for speed, they don't pay corporate tax! If we impose a patent tax on them now, that's what's gonna happen. Because they're in a lease relationship... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman, explaining the mechanism. ... must pass 50 thousand turnover to pay VAT, but they do not account for turnover because they are patented, and will not pay VAT. That's what I wanted to explain. [[GERB lines.]] You do not know what the relationship between employer and vehicle owner is. Either way, there's a defect.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u11	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Is there anyone who wants a second line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u12	I expected Mrs. Menda Stoyanova to make a line at Mr. Tsonev's first speech when he declared this tax patented. It's not a patent tax, it's a tax on taxis. It has nothing to do with the patent tax and does not exempt from VAT when the turnover is reached, but we are not talking about it here. We are talking here precisely about this, Mr. Tsonev, that with the previous Law we tried to regulate relations in the sector and to make companies currently engaged as leasing companies start working as taxi companies. To register with the corresponding number of cars, with the corresponding number of working drivers with them on a work contract, in order to be able to know who pays the bill, who is obliged to pay the taxes. And those who want to work individually have no problem registering. I may say again, and I turn to the Minister, to develop rules for the faster registration of the individual driver, if he wants to work separately, but to introduce a difference between whether you take the car on lease and thus enslave yourself to a leasing company and you have to work as a taxi driver for it.. White slave, 24 hours sleeper in the car, or this company hires you on a work contract, you get your salary, you get your insurance, you pay your turnover, the company pays your tax on taxi transport, as long as your turnover, pays your VAT and everything is arranged. That is why I say that such quick and thoughtless changes should not be made. I ask the importers to withdraw this bill, to go through another discussion with the Transport Commission. To discuss with the experts of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Minister himself and then to make decisions, and not now, I say again, to create the impression that we are working in a piece.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. The next MP, who signed up for speech, is the People's Representative Zhelyo Boychev from BSP left Bulgaria. Mr. Boychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would ask that we extend the parliamentary group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u15	Extend the parliamentary group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u16	Dear Members of Parliament, the position of our parliamentary group has already been stated, but I would like to say that this Law, tabled by MPs from GERB, is another example of the fact that GERB promises one thing and does exactly the opposite. To the promise that taxes will not be increased, this is another example in which we are witnessing, essentially, the introduction of a new kind of tax. And notice, this new kind of tax is introduced without even having an opinion of the Ministry of Finance on what the effect will be and what the funds will be collected. I am not at all convinced that the Ministry of Finance will be very happy that he is not given the opportunity to correct the transfer that he will have to the local authorities, given this additional revenue that it will generate if you accept the Bill. This Bill essentially shows one more thing to your promise that you will work to improve the business environment, you are constantly introducing new requirements, difficulties and barriers to doing business. But the most disturbing thing is that October has changed. [[Noise and lines.]] It is your right to introduce new taxes, the voter will sue you for this, but I see no reason to make changes to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, giving municipal councils the opportunity to determine such tax on taxi carriers, to make changes to the Law on Road Transport. Given that MPs from GERB also received our support, October we made these changes. I am glad that Minister Moskovski came here, who then had a formal opinion supporting the changes made in October, and they were in the direction of this taxi transport activity being able to be carried out by traders holding a registration certificate, and that's where we put the point of changes to the Law, as you know that there was a possibility that this activity could be carried out on behalf of registered carriers already. This business is quite regulated. The body that regulates it is subordinate to Minister Moskovski. There is a very clear order and requirements, and anyone who wants to carry out a taxi transport must carry them out, and now in the Transitional and Final Regulations,... one month later, you return the old regime. I would like to hear Minister Moskovski's opinion on this issue, as the taste that remains with us is that this is another example in which legislation is being made serving large financial and leasing companies at the expense of the interests of each individual carrier and, ultimately, the interest of the ordinary consumer of this service. That's a very bad example. Regarding the obstacles you are creating, I would like to tell you that up until now the bill has given the opportunity for the tax authorisation to apply for three years, not that Sofia Municipality has implemented it. She was still issuing them for one year, but now you are making changes with this Law and this certificate will necessarily apply for one year, which means that you are burdening with additional fees and red tape carrying out this kind of commercial and business activity. I would also like to hear the opinion of Minister Moskovski on this issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u17	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? There aren't any. To speak, the people representative Velizar Enchev, non-member of a parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u18	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, Mr. Minister! When a group of GERB MPs submit a bill, honourable Members, who repealed another bill of other MPs from GERB party, but already adopted and published three weeks before that, this means that in this ruling party, GERB party, there are two economic groups. [[Noise and excitement in GERB.]] And when there are two warring economic groups in a ruling party, it is not a party of the people, it is not a party for the European development of Bulgaria, but a party of the groups. Understand in the broad sense of this word, even in the offensive sense understand it. That is, GERB turns out to be a party of the groups from the initial accumulation of capital at the moment. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] You can react as much as you want, you can't take my word away. In committees you can exclude me, but you can't get me out of here! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u19	Mr. Enchev, do not enter into a debate with the MPs. Get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u20	Please don't interrupt me. Learn to listen to the opposition and those who do not like your leader Boyko Borisov! [[Strong noise in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u21	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u22	So what does Mrs. Menda Stoyanova want? Mrs. Menda Stoyanova's law provides that in addition to companies carriers, taxi transport will carry persons on behalf of a registered carrier, but at their own expense. What's ridiculous? As I said, the absurd thing is that a month ago Mr. Tsvetomir Mihov and Ivan Valkov introduced a very good law, at least in my opinion, suggesting that the taxi services should be carried out only by carriers to hire drivers working for them. In essence, the law of Tsvetomir Mihov and his colleague were liquidated or at least an attempt was made to liquidate the taxis. Now you're returning them. Congratulations! Let all Bulgarian citizens hear for whom Party GERB work and its leader Boyko Metodiev Borisov! [[Strong noise in GERB.]] Hiring drivers would lead to much better control under this Law. [[Comments in GERB.]] Please don't interrupt me! Get used to listening to the opposition's voice! If you don't learn, I'll teach you! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u23	Mr. Enchev, please don't engage with the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u24	Carriers will be responsible for their drivers and will be able to control under the old Law, which you will now cancel, the purity of the taxi, its appearance and the steering wheel will not be able to change ten people as it has been until now, and the apparatus will not be registered to any company in some Roma ghetto, which you will now legitimize with this new law of Mrs. Menda Stoyanova. I hope she gets up to replicate me so I can answer her with one more fact that I'm not going to bring out right now. So, honourable Members, or, more precisely, the disrespectful Members of the GERB Party, who are submitting this Law, let me remind you that you are copying the carrier lobby, which in 2010 for the shame of that Parliament, almost managed to pass the amendment in parliament. To remind you that on a proposal from the Ministry of Transport and Information Technology, Boyko Borisov's first cabinet introduced changes to the Law on Road Transport, with which he returned to business the companies with old buses of 20 years old, and 35 years after the crash in the Lin River. Since there was a lot of noise in the public and parliament, the opposition reacted, then Borisov withdrew this bill, and the relevant expert who was responsible for his writing was dismissed by the Ministry. Therefore, I call on Mrs. Menda Stoyanova not to hide in the last row of parliament, but to become on this stand and to announce whose interests she is protecting, which economic groups are paying her, perhaps, I say, to perhaps defend their interest? And does Mrs. Menda Stoyanova know that today on a national television representative of taxi drivers said that Menda Stoyanova lied to taxi drivers in Plovdiv? [[National Representative Menda Stoyanova wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] Yeah, he's entitled to a personal explanation, he'll use it. So, Mrs. Stoyanova... [[Strong noise in GERB.]] I told you, learn to listen to the opposition's voice!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u25	Mr. Enchev, please do not enter into a debate with the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u26	Thank you for your attention, fellow Members. I'm waiting for Mrs. Menda Stoyanova's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u27	Thanks for the speech. Is there anything you want to say? I can't see. For a personal explanation the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There was a lot of bullshit that came out of that tribune, but the last one was the tip of that bullshit! You made me the biggest lobbyist, didn't you? I also explained yesterday I'm a lobbyist, yes, I am a lobbyist for the state budget. I'm a lobbyist for all industries to pay their taxes, which is why I'm a lobbyist and I'm gonna continue to be a lobbyist! [[Applause from GERB.]] Therefore, I want the support of the entire Chamber to introduce this tax and finally this industry to pay taxes, as so far the payment of these taxes has been avoided, as you have explained very well from the stands. As for the repair, we can fix it between first and second readings. That's why there's gonna be a task force on Tuesday. Let us find an approach so that, on the one hand, we allow all ordinary people who make a living driving a taxi to be able to do it at their own expense, and at the same time there are texts to oblige carriers to bear the responsibility for whether the car is in good technical condition, whether the driver of this car has gone through medical examinations, whether the cash register is working. And that would be the responsibility of the carrier on whose behalf they work. We can do this with amendments to the Car Transport Act between first and second readings. But from today to burn the quilt for the flea as you wish, because it is so profitable for the opposition to look for something to hold on to, and let's find a reason to bassize it and show GERB that we are opposition. However, you must think first of all about the budget, about this budget, which next week you will want to allocate to expenditure. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Is there any other MP who would like to speak? I won't. Minister Ivaylo Moskovski has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u30	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think we should stick to something that can actually be fulfilled, to work. A serious debate on the subject was held in the Transport Commission. Both have their advantages and disadvantages, have their supporters and opponents. I believe that our task, of all the executive and legislative powers, is to find a balance between these interests so that the taxi service is in favour of the consumer and does not damage the contractor or at least guarantee a sustainable and stable business model. I'll get to the point. Currently there is a registered taxi service 25 " 26 thousand." Cars, and about 4.. 5 thousand. registered carriers. The proposed text by colleagues Mihov and Valkov, without commenting on its advantages or disadvantages, is not feasible within the given period, is physically not feasible. I think that the deadline is up to the 21st to appoint some of the drivers who carry out the transport at their own expense to the employment contracts. I don't know if that's enough time. I do not know what percentage they would agree between leaders and employers to achieve a balance between the desire to sign such employment relations. Secondly, this deadline is absolutely insufficient. Colleagues who know about finance will say about re-fiscaling the apparatus. Third, assuming that any percentage of those over 20,000. registered cars decided to pass under procedure to be carriers rather than hired under a contract of employment, the procedure in the Automobile Administration is one month. Assuming that even if we optimize it in some way and cut it even in half, you realize that it is probably about a few thousand who would want to register as carriers. A few thousand people a month means at least a year or more. That is why my proposal is not to create chaos in the system, to remain the old regime and to make a working group between all stakeholders next week, including colleagues from the opposition, colleagues from GERB, from the Ministry, associations and industry of one and the other, and as Mrs. Stoyanova said between first and second reading to balance between the interests of everyone. My personal opinion is that the proposed amendments by Valkov and Mihov are premature. Even though we've coordinated them as the Ministry, I'm reading it as a mistake. We have quickly coordinated these amendments. If you agree, let us apply this approach to do something working. Otherwise, the interests of a part of the industry will probably be guaranteed and protected, perhaps the more social element where the opposition has every reason to defend this principle and this concept, but the system will fall into chaos. I guarantee it because physically these changes cannot be made within the time limit set in the Law: neither employment contracts could possibly be concluded by this time limit, nor re-fiscalization of the apparatus is physically possible until this time limit, nor, if there is a desire from these several thousand who will not go to employment contracts, but decide to become carriers themselves, and they have to meet a number of requirements, criteria for financial stability and so on, until they prove them and pass through the Ministry's procedure, I said, will probably take more than a year. It's gonna be chaos. That's my offer. I hope to find a balance and a reasonable solution to the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u31	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Before closing the debate, the public representative Chavdar Georgiev spoke.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I take the floor for the Minister's statement. I mean, clearly, Mr. Minister doesn't know what's going on in his Ministry. If they're wrong, I want to know if someone from the Ministry is responsible? Will the head of the D.I. for example be fired? Secondly, an attempt was made here to make a fuss about the whole discussion and again the Minister stood on the side of the status quo. If the deadline is a problem, colleagues, let's unite next week to change the deadline. It takes the Ministry half a year, one year to say how much, and to change this deadline, not to return the old situation that we disagree with. Mr. Minister, I don't accept your explanations and I think they're on the side of the status quo. These are lobbying statements on their substance, in my opinion, and the opposition will not support such a position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u33	Thank you. - What's the line? There's no reply. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. We're closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, No 554-01-173, submitted on 6 November 2015. They voted 143 MPs: for 69, against 34, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u34	Revoting procedure. Please, colleagues, we are voting on the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, not the Law on Road Transport. The debate was shifted from the Law on Local Taxes and Fees to the Law on Road Transport. [[Noise, lines and shouts.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u35	Quiet, please! We're going into re-voting procedure. Colleagues, we're voting. They voted 151 MPs: for 71, against 38, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. Moving on to the next point of our weekly program: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE DANISH-OSIBUTION PROCEEDING CODEX
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u36	Will the Committee on Budget and Finance report present to us anyone? Does anyone from the Budget and Finance Committee want to present the report?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Action to amend and supplement the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code.' The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u38	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the name of the Law, supported by the Commission, as well as the texts of the importer for paragraphs 1 and 2, which are also supported by the Commission. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The name of the Law as well as paragraphs 1 and 2 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u39	According to § 3 there is a proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs - § 3 is dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. Article 19 is amended as follows: The third party's responsibility is a member of a management body, manager, prosecutor, sales representative or sales agent. Art. 19. (1) Who, as a member of a management body, manager, prosecutor, sales representative, commercial agent of a legal person under art. 14, p. 1 and 2, conceal facts and circumstances which were legally required to announce to the revenue or public contractor body and consequently no tax or compulsory social security obligations can be collected, responsible for the uncollected obligation. (2) Who, as manager, member of a management body, prosecutor, commercial representative, commercial agent of a legal person under art. 14, p. 1 and 2, indecently made payments in kind or in cash from the property of the debtor representing a hidden distribution of the profit or dividend, or alienated property of the debtor free of charge or at prices significantly lower than the market, resulting in a decrease in the property of the debtor and therefore no taxes or compulsory social contributions have been paid, is liable for the obligation up to the amount of payments made, respectively, to the amount of the loss of the property.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u40	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u41	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! We have proposed to eliminate these changes in art. 19 of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, as the texts of art. 19 are not working since its introduction, completely meaningless and there is very little production on it. Not only do they not work, but now the proposal is to expand the circle of persons who will fall under the blows of this article. 19, provided that it does not work completely meaninglessly as a proposal, as well as many others. We support the proposal made by my colleague Mitev in the Chamber for narrowing the circle at least to drop the authorised persons who carry out, carry out management activities, and this was adopted by the Commission. However, I think that there is no point in changing this article. 19 and we are in favour of our proposal that the importers propose to drop out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u42	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Rumen Gechev, Georgi Turnovalyski, Dobrin Nenov and Chavdar Georgiev, which the Commission does not support. 90 MPs voted: 20, against 59, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting § 3 on the Commission report. Vote 94 MPs: 82, against 12, no abstentions. Paragraph 3 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u43	According to § 4 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1, and c. Two is withdrawn. There is a proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 4 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u44	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 4 by importer. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 4 by importer is rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u45	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 4. Under § 6 there is a proposal of the National Representative Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1, and c. Two is withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 5: In the title of art. 39 the word "Accounting" is deleted. According to § 7 there is a proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal of the MP Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 7 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u46	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 5, which is supported by the Commission and becomes § 4 in its report; the text supported by the importer and edited for § 6, which becomes § 5 in the Commission report, as well as the rejection of § 7. 90 MPs voted: 89 against 1, no abstentions. Paragraphs 4 and 5 of the Commission report have been adopted as well as the removal of § 7 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u47	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, 9 and 10 which shall become § 6, 7 and 8 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u48	Statements? I won't. We vote on the texts of the importer for § 8, 9 and 10, which are supported by the Commission and which become § 6, 7 and 8 respectively in its report. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 of the Commission report have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u49	According to § 11 there is a proposal from the MPs Slavov and Dimitrov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u50	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 9 in the Commission report after having supported the importer's text. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 9 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u51	There is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 107, para. A fourth sentence shall be created: an act may also be issued on the basis of own data, data received from third parties and organisations where there is no provision by law for the submission of a declaration and the obligation is not paid and no revision has been carried out. There is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 11. ........................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 109, para. 1 is finally a comma and is added either from the expiry of the year in which data received from third parties and organisations have been received in cases where there is no provision for the submission of a declaration under that Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u52	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposals to create new paragraphs 10 and 11 with their respective content, in accordance with the Commission's report. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. § 10 and 11 were created with their respective content on the Commission report. Please continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u53	There is a proposal of the MPs Slavov and Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 110th para is Where no other provision is provided for in a law, the period for carrying out the checks may not be longer than six months from the date of the first procedural act, which shall be certified by a protocol or served request under art. 37, para. 3. If the six-month period proves insufficient, it may be extended for up to six months by a resolution of the verifier. Where a protocol is drawn up for the results of the verification, it shall be made available to the person within 7 days of the verification.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u54	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposals for the creation of a new § 12, with its respective content, in accordance with the report on the same. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The creation of a new § 12 with its respective content, according to the Commission report, has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u55	According to § 12 there are identical proposals from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs. paragraph 12 is deleted; The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u56	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, which is not supported by the Commission, as well as the proposals of Rumen Gechev, Georgi Tarnowaliski, Dobrin Nenov and Chavdar Georgiev, as well as the proposals of Dimitar Tanev, Nastimir Ananiev, Boyka Marinska, Nayden Zelenogorski, Antony Trenchev and Dimitar Shishkov. We are voting on three unsupported proposals from the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: 18, against 60, abstention 16. The proposals have not been accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for § 12, which is supported by the Commission and becomes § 13 in its report. We are voting § 13 in accordance with the Commission's report. They voted 93 MPs: 83, against 3, abstention 7. Paragraph 13 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u57	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 14. According to § 14 there is a proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MPs Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 134, para. 1 sentence second after the words
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u58	Colleagues, you have a say in this. Mr. Tornowaliski, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u59	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Another pointless text, just to do something and offer texts. Naturally, our proposal was not accepted. We added two words to her award and did wonders. We support our proposal to drop what is proposed by the importers because we think it is completely pointless. If you do not accept it, of course, we will support the text that has been made and is improved as a proposal by Mrs. Stoyanova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovalysky. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Rumen Gechev, Georgi Turnovalyski, Dobrin Nenov, Chavdar Georgiev, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 9 against 64, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer for § 13, which becomes § 14, in the Commission report. We are voting § 14 on the Commission report. Vote 82 MPs: 79, against 2, abstention 1. Paragraph 14 of the Commission report has been adopted. We now vote on the generally supported text of the importer for § 14, which is edited by the same, and becomes § 15 in its report. We are voting § 15 on the Commission report. Vote 89 MPs: 86 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u61	According to § 15 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Title Two, Chapter 16a is created Section IIIa with art. 142a " 142z": Section IIIa Automatic exchange of financial information in the field of taxation Subsection I General Subject matter Art. 142a. (1) This section regulates the order for administrative cooperation through automatic exchange of financial information in the field of taxation with participating jurisdictions, the obligations of financial institutions providing information for the collection, application of procedures for complex verification and the provision of financial information. (2) Automatic exchange of financial information shall be the systematic provision of information under art. 142b, para. 1 of a participating jurisdiction concerning persons resident for tax purposes of that participating jurisdiction, without request, at predetermined intervals. Scope of financial information Art. 142b. (1) The reporting financial institution shall provide information on each account meeting the conditions of § 1a, i.e. 40 of the Additional Provisions of the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency, which includes: 1. names/name, address, participating jurisdiction of which is resident for tax purposes, tax number, date and place of birth (in the case of a natural person) of each account holder for which information is provided; 2. where an account holder is an entity which, following the application of the due diligence procedures, is identified as a passive supervised entity by one or more controlling entities for which the name, address, tax number and participating jurisdiction or other jurisdiction to which education is resident for tax purposes, as well as names, address, participating jurisdiction to which he is resident for tax purposes, tax number, date and place of birth of each controlling person for which information is provided; 3. account number or functional equivalent in the absence of a number; 4. name and identification number of the reporting financial institution; 5. availability or value of the account, including in the case of an insurance contract with a redeemable value or a repurchase agreement, at the end of the relevant calendar year or at the date on which the account is closed; 6. in the case of a custody account: (a) the total gross amount of interest, the total gross amount of dividends and the total gross amount of other income arising from the assets held on the account paid or accrued on the account (or in connection with the account) during the calendar year; and (b) the total amount of gross proceeds from the sale or redemption of financial assets paid or accrued on the account during the calendar year in respect of which the providing financial institution acted as a trustee, intermediary, proxy or otherwise as an agent of the account holder; 7. in the case of a deposit account, the total gross amount of interest paid or accrued on the account during the calendar year; 8. in the case of an account not specified in item 8. 6 or 7............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (2) Where a person for whom information is provided is resident for tax purposes of more than one participating jurisdiction, the information shall be provided for each participating jurisdiction separately. (3) The information provided shall contain the currency in which each amount is denominated. (4) Where the reporting financial institution does not have information on a tax number or the date of birth of the holder of the existing account, such data shall not be provided. In that case, the reporting financial institution shall collect information on the tax number or the date of birth of the account holder by the end of the second calendar year following the year in which the existing account was identified as an account for which information is provided. (5) A tax number shall not be required if such a tax number is not issued by the jurisdiction to which the information is provided is resident for tax purposes. (6) The provision of place of birth information shall not be required if the reporting financial institution does not have that information and is not obliged to collect it under another law. (7) For the purposes of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America to improve compliance with international tax legislation and the implementation of FATCA, signed in Sofia on 5 December 2014, ratified by law (GB, p. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed,), hereinafter referred to as "FATCA Agreement', where the information provided by the financial institution does not have information on a tax number in respect of an existing account to a natural person, the date of birth of the account holder shall be provided, with information on the tax number being collected within the period laid down in para. 4. (8) The reporting financial institution shall apply the due diligence procedures under the terms and conditions of this Section to identify the accounts for which information is provided, as well as the non-Participant financial institutions, for payments to which information is provided. (9) The providing financial institution (except a trust) resident in two or more countries shall carry out the due diligence procedures and provide information to the State in which the financial account is maintained. Time-limit for providing the information Art. 142c. (1) The information referred to in art. 142b, para. 1 shall be made available annually by electronic means by 30 June of the year following the year to which it relates, in order and in a format validated by the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency. (2) A financial institution providing information which does not maintain accounts for which information is provided shall state that fact within the period laid down in para. 1. (3) The providing financial institution shall provide the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency with information on the name and the total amount of payments to each non-financial institution that it has made in 2015 and 2016. The information shall be provided within the period laid down in para. 1. (4) When the providing information financial institution makes payment with a source in the United States of America on which a tax is withheld under art. 1, para. 1 point (d) of point (g) of point (g) of point (i) of point (g) of point (i) of point (g) of point (i) of point (i) of point (g) of point (i) of point (g) of point (i) of point (g) of point (i) of point (g) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (g) of point (i) of point (g) of point (i) of point (g) of point (i) of point (g) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (g) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of (5) The Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency shall carry out an automatic exchange of financial information with the competent authority of each participating jurisdiction. The information referred to in art. 142b, para. 1 shall be exchanged in a standardised electronic format by 30 September of the year following the year to which it relates. List of non-information financial institutions, excluded accounts and participating jurisdictions Art. 142. (1) The Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency shall draw up a list of entities which shall be deemed not to be providing information financial institutions under § 1a, i.e. 12 (c) of the additional provisions and of the accounts which are deemed to be excluded accounts under § 1a, i.e. 39 point (j) of the additional provisions. (2) The list under para. 1 shall be validated by the order of the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency, published on the Agency's website and sent to the European Commission, which shall be notified of any subsequent change thereto. (3) The Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency shall publish a list of the participating jurisdictions on the Agency's website. Subsection II Procedures for complex verification General rules for complex verification Art. 142e. (1) The reporting financial institution shall consider any financial account for which information is provided from the date of its identification as such under the due diligence procedures. The account information shall be provided annually during the calendar year following the year to which the information relates, unless otherwise provided for in this Code. (2) The availability or value of the account for which information is provided shall be determined on the last day of the calendar year. (3) The providing information financial institution may use a third party, a service provider, to fulfil the information obligations and a complex verification under this section. (4) In the cases under para. 3 The responsibility for the performance of the duties shall be the responsibility of the providing financial institution which must have access or have the information and documentary evidence used to carry out a complex verification. (5) The providing financial institution may apply the procedures for the complex verification of new accounts to existing accounts, and the reductions applicable to existing accounts shall continue to apply. (6) The reporting financial institution may apply the procedures for the complex verification of accounts of a high value to small-value accounts. Subsection III Complex checking of natural persons' accounts Complex verification of existing accounts of small-value individuals Art. 142f. (1) To identify an existing account of a natural person who is a small-value account, the following procedures shall apply: 1. the providing financial institution that stores the address of the residence of an account holder collected on the basis of documentary evidence may consider it to be a resident for tax purposes of the jurisdiction in which the address is located and on the basis of which it determines whether the account holder is a person for whom information is provided; 2. the providing financial institution which does not apply the procedure under point 2. 1 shall review the electronic records supported by it for the presence of the following indications: (a) identification of the account holder as a resident for tax purposes of a participating jurisdiction; (b) an up-to-date address of residence or address for correspondence (including mailbox) in a participating jurisdiction; (c) the presence of one or more telephone numbers in participating jurisdiction and the absence of telephone numbers in the Republic of Bulgaria; (d) continuous instructions for the transfer of funds to an account maintained in a participating jurisdiction, with the exception of instructions on a deposit account; (e) acting power of attorney granted to a person with an address in a participating jurisdiction; (f) a postal address with an indication of the attention of the Member State in which the Reporting Financial Institution is located, where this is the only address of the account holder with which the providing financial institution has available information. (2) If the providing information a financial institution has used the verification of the address of residence under para. 1, t. 1 and there has been a change in circumstances as a result of which the reporting financial institution becomes aware or has reason to know that the original documentary evidence (or other equivalent documentation) is already false or unreliable, the reporting financial institution must receive a declaration and new documentary evidence to establish the quality of a resident for tax purposes of the account holder. The declaration and the new documentary evidence referred to in the first sentence must be obtained by the later of the following two dates: 1. the last day of the calendar year concerned, or 2.90 calendar days after the announcement or discovery of the change in circumstances. (3) If he does not receive a declaration and new documentary evidence within the period under para. 2, the providing information financial institution shall apply the search procedure in the electronic records under para. 1, t. 2. (4) For the purposes of the FATCA Agreement: 1. Paragraph 1, t. 1 shall not apply; 2. The indications under para. 1, t. 2 shall also include the identification of the account holder as a citizen of the United States of America and the place of birth in the United States of America; 3. when reviewing the indication under para. 1, t. 2 point (c) of the first subparagraph shall not be taken into account in the absence of a telephone number in the Republic of Bulgaria; 4. when reviewing the indication under para. 1, t. 2 (b) The deposit accounts shall not be excluded. Consequences when detecting an indication Art. 142g. (1) Where the reporting financial institution does not find an indication under art. 142e, para. 1, t. 2 When reviewing the electronic records, it shall not take subsequent action until there is a change in circumstances leading to the occurrence of an indication relating to the account or the account becomes a large account. (2) Where the reporting financial institution detects an indication under art. 142e, para. 1, t. The account holder shall be considered to be a resident for tax purposes of each participating jurisdiction for which an indication has been established, except where art. 142z. (3) Where the reporting financial institution discovers only the indication under art. 142e, para. 1, t. 2 (e) and (f) it must search the paper-based file of the account holder in accordance with art. 142i, para. 1, t. 2 or obtain a declaration or documentary evidence from the account holder to determine where he is resident for tax purposes. (4) Where the providing information financial institution does not find an indication of the search in the file and receives no declaration or documentary evidence, the account shall be considered as an undocumented account and shall be provided with information to the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency. (5) Any existing account of a natural person identified as an account for which information is provided shall be considered as an account for which information is provided in each subsequent year, unless the account holder ceases to be a person for whom information is provided. Exceptions to the detection of an indication Art. 142z. (1) The providing financial institution may not consider the account holder to be a resident for tax purposes of a participating jurisdiction for which an indication is open where: 1. the information about the account holder contains an indication under art. 142e, para. 1, t. 2 points (b) and (c) and (d) and the information providing financial institution shall receive or have the following documents: (a) a statement from the account holder of the jurisdiction (s) of which he is resident for tax purposes, and (b) documentary evidence that the account holder is not a person for whom information is provided; 2. the information about the account holder shall contain the indication under art. 142e, para. 1, t. 2 point (e) and the reporting financial institution shall receive or have some of the following documents: (a) a statement from the account holder of the jurisdiction (s) of which he is resident for tax purposes; or (b) documentary evidence that the account holder is not a person for whom information is provided. (2) For the purposes of FATCA, the agreement providing information, a financial institution may not consider the account as an account for which information is provided where the account holder information contains a telephone number in the United States of America and a telephone number in another jurisdiction or the indication under art. 142e, para. 1, t. 2 (e) and the reporting financial institution shall receive or have some of the following documents: (a) a statement from the account holder of the jurisdiction (s) of which he is resident for tax purposes; (b) documentary evidence that the account holder is not a person for whom information is provided. (3) For the purposes of the FATCA Agreement, the providing financial institution may not consider the account as an account for which information is provided where the account holder information contains a place of birth in the United States of America and the providing financial institution receives or has the following documents: 1. a statement from the account holder that he is not a citizen of the United States of America or a resident for tax purposes of the United States of America; 2. a passport or other official identification document under which the nationality of the account holder is in a country other than the United States of America; 3. a copy of a certificate of the loss of citizenship of the United States of America to the account holder or an explanation for: (a) the reason why the account holder does not have such a certificate despite the refusal of citizenship of the United States of America; or (b) the reason why the account holder did not acquire citizenship of the United States of America at birth. Reinforced procedures for the review of existing accounts of a large-value natural person Art. 142i. (1) To identify an existing account of a natural person that is a large-value account, the following enhanced procedures shall apply: 1. the providing information financial institution shall review the electronic records of each of the indications under art. 142e, para. 1, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. the providing financial institution shall review the existing file of the client in paper form and the following documents collected in the last five years for each of the indications under art. 142e, para. 1, t. 2: (a) the last documentary evidence collected in connection with the account; (b) the last account opening contract or other documentation; (c) the latest documentation collected under the procedures for implementing measures against money laundering and terrorist financing laid down in § 1a, i.e. 50 of the Additional Provisions, hereinafter referred to as the "MIP procedures', or collected for other regulatory purposes; (d) acting power of attorney; (e) a standing instruction for the transfer of funds, with the exception of a deposit account; 3. the reporting financial institution may not review the client file in paper form if the electronic records it maintains contain information about: (a) the jurisdiction in which the account holder is resident for tax purposes; (b) an up-to-date address of residence and an address for correspondence of the account holder; (c) the account holder's telephone number, if any; (d) continuous instructions for transferring funds from the account to another account, with the exception of instructions on a deposit account; (e) a postal address with an indication of the attention of the (s) or (s) upon request of the account holder; (f) power of attorney of the account; 4. the providing financial institution must consider any large-value account (including all financial accounts that are aggregated with that large-value account) as an account for which information is provided if a customer liaison officer knows that the account holder is a person for whom information is provided.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u62	Mrs. Yordanova, please interrupt. Colleagues, no vote is expected, as the paragraph is very long. I would ask for less excitement in this House so that the rapporteur can present the report calmly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u63	(2) Where, in applying the enhanced procedures, the providing financial institution does not find an indication under art. 142e, para. 1, t. 2 and does not establish that the account is held by a person for whom information is provided, it shall not take follow-up until there is a change in circumstances leading to the occurrence of an indication relating to the account. (3) When the providing financial institution finds an indication under art. 142e, para. 1, t. 2 points (a) to (d) or (b) of paragraph 1 shall not apply to the account. 142z. (4) When the providing financial institution discovers only the indication under art. 142e, para. 1, t. 2 (e) (ii) It shall receive a declaration or documentary evidence from the account holder in order to determine where he is resident for tax purposes. If such a declaration or documentary evidence is not received, the account shall be considered as an undocumented account and information shall be provided to the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency. (5) The reporting financial institution shall apply the enhanced procedures to an account that has not been a large account but becomes such at the end of the following calendar year, within 6 months of the end of the calendar year in which the account has become a large account. An account information shall be provided for the year in which it is identified as an account for which information is provided as well as for subsequent years, unless the account holder ceases to be a person for whom information is provided. (6) When providing information, a financial institution shall apply the enhanced procedures to a large-value account, such procedures may not be applied again every subsequent year, except for the verification by an employee to contact the client of an account under para. 5. If the account is undocumented, the reporting financial institution should apply the enhanced procedures in each subsequent year until the account has ceased to be documented. (7) In the event of a change in circumstances in relation to a large-value account leading to the occurrence of one or more indications under art. 142e, para. 1, t. 2, the providing information financial institution shall consider the account as an account for which information is provided in respect of each participating jurisdiction for which an indication is established, except where art. 142z. (8) The providing financial institution shall apply such procedures to enable the customer liaison officer to identify any change in circumstances in relation to an account. Existing accounts of a natural person for which no complex verification is carried out Art. 142k. (1) For the purposes of the FATCA agreement, the providing financial institution may not carry out a complex check and shall not provide information on the following existing accounts to natural persons: 1. an existing account of a natural person with a stock or value that does not exceed the remaining equivalent of USD 50 000 on 30 June 2014; 2. an insurance contract with a ransom value or an annuity contract with a stock or value equal to or less than the equivalent of USD 250 000 on 30 June 2014; 3. a deposit account with an availability equal to or less than the equivalent of USD 50 000 on 30 June 2014. (2) Paragraph 1 shall apply to all or a certain group of accounts. Complex checking of new accounts to natural persons Art. 142l. (1) When opening a new account of a natural person, the providing financial institution shall receive a declaration that may be part of the documentation for the opening of the account on the basis of which to determine where the account holder is resident for tax purposes, and to confirm the authenticity of that declaration on the basis of the information received at the opening of the account, including any documentation collected in accordance with the MIP procedures. (2) For the purposes of the FATCA agreement, the providing financial institution may not carry out a complex check and shall not provide information on the following new accounts to natural persons: 1. a deposit account with a stock of less than USD 50 000 equivalent at the end of each calendar year; 2. an insurance contract with a ransom value if the redemption value does not exceed the remaining equivalent of USD 50,000 at the end of each calendar year. (3) The providing information financial institution shall apply the procedures for complex examination under para. 1 to 90 days after the end of the calendar year in which the account has ceased to meet the conditions of para. 2. (4) Paragraph 2 shall apply to all or a certain group of accounts. (5) If from the declaration under para. 1 It shall be established that an account holder is a resident for tax purposes of a participating jurisdiction, the providing financial institution shall consider the account as an account for which information is provided. (6) A citizen of the United States of America shall be considered a resident for tax purposes in the United States of America even if he is resident for tax purposes and another jurisdiction. (7) If there is a change in circumstances in relation to a new account of a natural person and the reporting financial institution knows or has reason to know that the initial declaration is false or unreliable, the providing financial institution may not use the initial declaration and must obtain a valid declaration from which the account holder is resident for tax purposes. If the reporting financial institution does not receive a valid declaration, it shall consider the account as an account for which information is provided to the United States of America. Subsection IV Complex verification of accounts of entities Existing accounts of entities for which no due diligence is carried out Art. One hundred and forty-two meters. (1) The providing financial institution may not carry out a complex verification and shall not provide information on existing accounts of an entity with aggregate stock or value on 31 December 2015 that does not exceed the remaining equivalent of USD 250 000. (2) For the purposes of FATCA, the total availability or value of the accounts under para. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). (3) Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply to all or to a certain group of accounts. (4) Where the aggregate availability or value of an existing account of an entity exceeds the remaining equivalent of USD 250 000 on the last day of any subsequent calendar year, the providing financial institution shall carry out a complex check in accordance with art. 142n. (5) For the purposes of the FATCA agreement the total availability or value under para. 4 should exceed the left-hand equivalent of $1,000,000. Complex verification of existing accounts of entities Art. 142n. (1) The providing financial institution shall determine whether an existing account of an entity for which art. 142m, para. For the purposes of paragraph 1, the Reporting Financial Institution shall report to the Reporting Financial Institution in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article the information to be reported by the Reporting Financial Institution in accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article. Two and three. (2) Determination of whether education is a person for whom information is provided: 1. the providing financial institution shall review the information maintained for regulatory purposes or for contact with the client (including information collected under the IP procedures) to determine the jurisdiction of the account holder to be resident for tax purposes; 2. if, according to the information, the account holder is a resident for tax purposes of a participating jurisdiction, the providing financial institution shall consider the account as an account for which information is provided, unless it receives a statement from the account holder or on the basis of the information available or publicly available, determine that the account holder is not a person for whom information is provided. (3) Determination of whether the entity is a passive supervised entity with one or more persons for whom information is provided: 1. the providing information financial institution must determine whether the account holder is [[including an entity for which information is provided]] is a passive supervised entity with one or more persons for whom information is provided on the basis of the following checks: (a) the providing financial institution must obtain a statement from the account holder to determine whether it is a passive Financial Institution, unless, on the basis of the information available or publicly available, it determines that the account holder is an Active Financial Institution and is not a Financial Institution under § 1a, i.e. 47 point (b) of the additional provisions, from the non-court. If the Reporting Financial Institution is a Reportable Person, the Reporting Financial Institution shall be considered to be a Reportable Person. (b) the reporting financial institution may use the information collected and maintained in accordance with the MIP procedures to identify the controlling persons of the account holder; (c) to determine whether a controlling entity of a passive supervised entity is a person for whom information is provided, the reporting financial institution shall use one of the following means: (aa) information collected and maintained in accordance with the MIP procedures where the account is of aggregate stock or value not exceeding the remaining equivalent of USD 1 000 000; (bb) the statement by the account holder or the controller of the jurisdiction in which the controller is resident for tax purposes; 2. if any of the controlling persons of a passive supervised entity is a person for whom information is provided, the providing financial institution shall consider the account as an account for which information is provided. (4) The providing financial institution shall apply the due diligence procedures under this Article within six months from the end of the calendar year in which the account has ceased to comply with the conditions under art. One hundred and forty-two meters. (5) If there is a change in circumstances in relation to an existing account of an entity which results in the information providing financial institution knowing or having reason to know that the declaration or other documentation relating to the account is incorrect or unreliable, the providing information financial institution shall re-establish the status of the account under that Article. Account with the holder of the fund (s) of the financial institution (s) Art. 142o. For the purposes of the FATCA Agreement, the providing financial institution must determine whether an existing account of an entity is with a holding company not a financial institution, applying the following procedures: 1. the providing financial institution must review the information collected for regulatory purposes or for contacting customers (including information collected under the IP procedures) to determine whether the account holder is a financial institution; 2. the providing financial institution shall verify the global intermediary identification number of the financial institution on the list published by the Office for Internal Revenue of the United States of America or other information available or publicly available to determine whether the account holder is a Bulgarian financial institution, a financial institution of a partner jurisdiction or a foreign financial institution which is not considered as a non-financial institution. In this case, no subsequent complex verification and provision of information in relation to the account shall be carried out; 3. in all other cases the providing financial institution must receive a declaration from the financial institution in order to determine its status and whether it should provide information on the aggregate payments to that financial institution in accordance with art. 142c, para. 3; 4. where the account holder is a non-resident financial institution, including a Bulgarian financial institution or financial institution of a partner jurisdiction, which are considered by the Office for Internal Revenue of the United States of America as a non-resident financial institution, the providing financial institution shall provide information on the aggregate payments to the account under art. 142c, para. 3. Complex verification of new accounts of entities Art. 142p. (1) The providing financial institution shall determine whether a new account of an entity is held by one or more entities to which information is provided or by a passive supervised entity with one or more persons to whom information is provided by applying the procedures laid down in para. Two and three. (2) Determination of whether the entity is a person for whom information is provided: 1. upon the opening of a new account of an entity, the providing financial institution shall receive a declaration which may be part of the documentation for the opening of the account on the basis of which to determine the jurisdiction of which the account holder is resident for tax purposes and confirm the authenticity of that declaration on the basis of the information obtained at the opening of the account, including any documentation collected in accordance with the IIP procedures; 2. if an entity establishes that it is not resident for tax purposes of any jurisdiction, the reporting financial institution shall use the address of the central management of the entity to determine where it is resident for tax purposes; 3. if the statement states that the account holder is a resident for tax purposes of a participating jurisdiction, the providing financial institution shall consider the account as an account for which information is provided, unless, on the basis of the information available to or publicly available, it shall determine that the account holder is not a person for whom information is provided in respect of that participating jurisdiction. (3) Determination of whether the entity is a passive supervised entity with one or more persons for whom information is provided: 1. the providing information financial institution must determine whether the account holder is [[including an entity for which information is provided]] is a passive supervised entity with one or more persons for whom information is provided on the basis of the following checks: (a) the providing financial institution must obtain a statement from the account holder to determine whether it is a passive Financial Institution, unless, on the basis of information available or publicly available, it determines that the account holder is an Active Financial Institution and is not a Financial Institution under § 1a, i.e. 47 point (b) of the additional provisions, from the non-court. If the Reporting Financial Institution is a Reportable Person, the Reporting Financial Institution shall be considered to be a Reportable Person. (b) the reporting financial institution may use the information collected and maintained in accordance with the MIP procedures to identify the controlling persons of the account holder; (c) to determine whether a controlling entity of a passive supervised entity is a person for whom information is provided, the reporting financial institution shall use the declaration by the account holder or by the controlling entity; 2. if any of the controlling persons of a passive supervised entity is a person for whom information is provided, the providing financial institution shall consider the account as an account for which the information is provided. (4) For the purposes of the FATCA Agreement, the providing financial institution shall determine whether a new account of an entity is with the holder of a non-financial institution, applying the following procedures: 1. The providing financial institution shall verify the global intermediary identification number of the financial institution on the list published by the Internal Revenue Office of the United States of America or other information available or publicly available to determine whether the account holder is a Bulgarian financial institution or a financial institution of a partner jurisdiction. In such a case, no subsequent complex verification and provision of information in relation to the account should be carried out; 2. in all other cases the providing financial institution must receive a declaration from the financial institution in order to determine its status and whether it should provide information on the aggregate payments to that financial institution in accordance with art. 142c, para. 3; 3. where the account holder is not a financial institution, including a Bulgarian financial institution or a financial institution of a partner jurisdiction, considered by the Office for Internal Revenue of the United States of America as a non-financial institution, the providing financial institution shall provide information on the aggregate payments to the account under art. 142c, para. 3. (5) For the purposes of the FATCA Agreement, the providing financial institution may not carry out a complex verification and shall not provide information on new accounts to entities that are credit card accounts or a revolving credit agreement, provided that the providing financial institution adopts policies and procedures that prevent the availability of the account from exceeding the remaining equivalent of USD 50 000. (6) Paragraph 5 shall apply to all or a certain group of accounts. Subsection V Specific rules for complex verification Specific rules for complex verification Art. 142p. (1) A financial institution shall not use a declaration or documentary evidence if it knows or has reason to know that the declaration or documentary evidence is false or unreliable. (2) The providing financial institution may not consider a natural person who receives compensation for death under an insurance contract with a ransom value or annuity contract and is different from the owner/insurer of the contract as a person for whom information is provided unless he knows or has reason to know that that natural person is a person for whom information is provided. The providing information financial institution has reason to know that the natural person is a person for whom information is provided if the collected information contains an indication under art. 142e, para. 1, t. 2, such as in this case, or when it knows another reason, apply the procedures under art. 142t. (3) The reporting financial institution may not provide information on a group insurance contract with a ransom value or group annuities contract until the date on which the amount is payable to the insured employee or the beneficial owner, provided that the following conditions are met: 1. the group insurance contract with a ransom value or the group annuity contract has been concluded with an employer as an insurer and includes 25 or more insured employees; 2. the insured employee shall have the right to receive a ransom value or payment under the contract relating to his participation and to designate beneficiaries for the payment of the death benefit; 3. the amount payable to the insured employee or beneficiary shall not exceed the remaining equivalent of USD 1 000 000. Rules for the aggregation of accounts and conversion of currencies Art. 142c. (1) The reporting financial institution shall apply the following rules for the aggregation of accounts and the conversion of currencies: 1. to determine the aggregate availability or value of financial accounts with a natural person providing information, the providing financial institution shall aggregate all financial accounts maintained by it or by a related entity in so far as its information system allows the connection of accounts and the aggregation of accounts; 2. to determine the aggregate availability or value of financial accounts with an entity holding a financial institution providing information, the financial institution shall aggregate all financial accounts maintained by it or by a related entity in so far as its information system allows the connection of accounts and aggregation; 3. to determine the aggregate availability or value of a financial account and to assess whether the information providing financial institution is of high value aggregate all financial accounts for which a responsible customer liaison officer is known or has reason to know that they are directly or indirectly owned, controlled or created (in a quality other than a fiduciar) by the same account holder; 4. for the purposes of applying the summation requirements under this Article to each financial account holder with holders two or more persons shall refer to the total or value of that financial account; 5. The stocks or values of financial accounts in BGN and other currency shall be revalued in BGN and aggregated by the resulting result being translated into US dollars; the calculations referred to in this subparagraph shall be made at the latest published exchange rate of the Bulgarian National Bank for the previous calendar year. (2) When opening a new account of a natural person or entity, the providing information financial institution may use a statement from that person received under art. 142l and 142p not more than three years ago, unless he knows or has reason to know that the declaration is false or unreliable. (3) For the purposes of the FATCA Agreement, the providing financial institution may use any alternative procedure provided for in Annex I to the FATCA Agreement or any definition applicable under art. 4, para. 7 of the FATCA Agreement, provided that this will not impede the objectives of this Code and after notification to the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency. Subsection VI Collection of information Opening of new accounts Art. 142t. (1) When opening a new account with a declaration from the account holder, the providing information financial institution shall collect data to enable it to carry out the due diligence procedures and determine whether the account holder is a person for whom information is provided as follows: 1. in respect of a financial account with a natural person holder: (a) name; (b) address of residence; (c) date and place of birth; (d) any jurisdiction in which the person is resident for tax purposes; (e) a tax number for each jurisdiction in which the person is resident for tax purposes; (f) any nationality that the person holds; (g) an obligation to notify a change in circumstances; (h) liability in declaring false data; (i) confirmation of notification that the information under art. 142b, para. 1 may be subject to automatic exchange of financial information; (k) date and signature of the person; 2. as regards a financial account with an entity holder: (a) name; (b) address; (c) a tax number for each jurisdiction in which the person is resident for tax purposes; (d) any jurisdiction in which the person is resident for tax purposes; (e) determining whether the entity is not a designated American person; (f) determining whether the entity is a financial institution and its status; (g) determining whether the entity is regularly traded on a securities trading venue or is a related entity to such an entity; (h) determining whether the entity is a state entity, an international organisation or a central bank; (i) determining whether the entity is an active or passive supervised entity; (k) where the entity is a passive supervised entity, the name, address, date and place of birth and the tax number of each controlling entity for which information is provided; (l) an obligation to notify a change in circumstances; (m) liability in declaring false data; (n) confirmation of notification that the information referred to in art. 142b, para. 1 may be subject to automatic exchange of financial information; (o) details of the person signing the declaration on behalf of the entity; p) date and signature. (2) The providing information financial institution may use the declaration under para. 1 and when applying the procedures for the complex verification of existing accounts. (3) The Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency shall establish a model of the declaration under para. 1 which may be used by the financial institutions providing information. (4) The fulfilment of the requirements under para. 1 and 2 does not exempt the financial institution from fulfilling the obligations under the Law on Measures against Money Laundering and the Law on Measures Against the Financing of Terrorism. Subsection VII Privacy of information and protection of personal data Confidentiality of information Art. 142u. (1) The information exchanged with the competent authorities of the participating jurisdictions in the order of art. 142c, para. 5, shall be considered as tax and insurance information within the meaning of Article 5. 72. (2) The information received by the competent authorities of the participating jurisdictions under the order of art. 142c, para. 5, may only be used: 1. for the purpose of establishing tax obligations; 2. for the purposes of establishing and collecting compulsory social contributions as well as other public claims under art. 269a, para. 1; 3. in the course of administrative and judicial proceedings in connection with the imposition of penalties for violation of tax legislation; 4. for other purposes, other than those referred to in point 4. The competent authority of the competent authority of the participating jurisdiction that provided the information authorised this and provided that information can be used for similar purposes in that participating jurisdiction. (3) Outside the cases under para. 2, p. 3 and 4 information cannot be disclosed to third parties. (4) The Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency shall determine the terms and conditions for access and use of information by the Agency's bodies and staff. Protection of personal data Art. 142f. (1) For the purposes of automatic exchange of financial information, as controllers of personal data registers within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 2 of the Additional Provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act support: 1. the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency; 2. Financial institutions providing information. (2) The processing of personal data for the purposes of automatic exchange of financial information shall be carried out by means of automatic means subject to the Personal Data Protection Act and the international treaties to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a party. (3) The Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency and the providing financial institutions shall take the necessary technical and organisational measures to protect the data within the meaning of art. 23, para. 1 of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, and lay down time limits for carrying out periodic reviews on the accuracy, adequacy and relevance of the data in respect of the purposes for which they have been collected. (4) The processing of personal data in the automatic exchange of financial information shall be carried out by the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency and the providing financial institutions as required by the ordinance under art. 23, para. 5 of the Personal Data Protection Act. (5) Before the provision of the information under art. 142b, para. 1 of the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency, the providing financial institutions shall inform the affected natural persons of the automated processing of data and provide them with the information under art. 19th para. 1 of the Personal Data Protection Act. (6) In accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act, any natural person for whom information under art. 142b, para. 1 shall have the right to access, delete, correct or block personal data relating to it and to request the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency to notify the participating jurisdictions to which its personal data have been disclosed of any deletion, correction or blocking, except where this is not possible or linked to excessive efforts. (7) Administrators of personal data under para. 1 refuse access to personal data processed for the purpose of automatic exchange of financial information in cases under art. 34 of the Personal Data Protection Act. (8) The Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency shall provide the data under art. 142b, para. 1 of participating jurisdictions subject to the requirements of Chapter Six of the Personal Data Protection Act. (9) The Commission for the Protection of Personal Data shall exercise the protection of individuals in the processing of their personal data for the purpose of automatic exchange of financial information in the exercise of access to such data, as well as the control of compliance with the Personal Data Protection Act. In carrying out the control powers, the controllers of personal data under para. 1 are obliged to provide assistance to the Commission for the protection of personal data in the exercise of its powers under the Personal Data Protection Act. (10) The Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency and the financial institutions providing information shall notify each natural person for which the information under Article is exchanged. 142b, para. 1 for any breach of security in relation to its data where the infringement may adversely affect the protection of its personal data or of its personal life. Subsection VIII Rules on effective implementation Rules against circumvention of complex verification Art. 142x. (1) A financial institution providing information and/or any other person shall not enter into transactions and/or apply practices aimed at circumventing the carrying out of a complex verification and the provision of information under this section. (2) If providing information a financial institution or another person enters into a transaction and/or if they apply practices under para. 1 for the purpose of carrying out a complex verification and the provision of information under this Code, such transactions and/or practices shall not be taken into account. (3) The providing information financial institution and/or the account holder shall not carry out actions aimed at reducing the availability or value of an account at the end of the calendar year concerned, provided that such actions are carried out solely to benefit from the exceptions under art. 142k, para. Art. 1, art. 142l, para. Art. 2, Art. 142m, para. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 142p, para. 5. Where such actions are carried out, they shall not be taken into account by the reporting financial institution. Storage of information Art. 142. (1) The reporting financial institution shall keep the information under art. 142b, para. 1, information on the actions taken for a complex check, as well as any declaration, documentary evidence or document establishing the status of the account holder. (2) The providing information financial institution shall keep the information under para. 1 for a period not less than 5 years after the end of the calendar year in which the account is closed. Review of non-reporting financial institutions and excluded accounts Art. 142 hours. The Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency shall review the non-reporting financial institutions and the excluded accounts included in the list under art. 142d, para. 1 submitted to the European Commission pursuant to art. 142d, para. Two every three years. Consequences of refusal to provide a declaration and/or documentary evidence Art. 142 mm. (1) The information providing financial institution shall not open a new account to a person who refuses to provide a declaration and/or documentary evidence and this shall result in the information providing financial institution being unable to fulfil its obligations for carrying out a complex verification and information provision under this section. (2) The providing information financial institution may close a financial account if the account holder refuses to provide a declaration or documentary evidence and this leads to the failure of the providing information financial institution to fulfil its due diligence and information obligations under this Code. (3) The providing financial institution shall not establish or modify its information system in such a way as to prevent the connection of the financial accounts of a single account holder maintained by it or by a related entity. Quality control of the information provided Art. 142z. The Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency shall periodically analyse and monitor the quality of the information provided and issue mandatory prescriptions to the financial institutions providing information.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova, for the exceptional performance of § 15 by importer. There will be debate and vote, which will take place at the next plenary session, as now the regular parliamentary control will be at 11.00. It's 10:59 a.m. Holiday till 11:00 p.m. [[Radio.]] (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u65	Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 6 to 12 November 2015 from: - People's Representative Manol Genov to Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, on the government's policy to deal with the backlog of municipalities for the development and adoption of common planning plans (OPP) and how the inability to make a change in the use of land in settlements without the ODP will be overcome. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 20 November 2015; - National Representative Dora Yankova to Nikolina Angelkova, Minister of Tourism, about the winter tourist season. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 20 November 2015. Written responses were received from: - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the MPs Atanas Merdjanov and Chavdar Georgiev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the MPs Vili Lilkov, Valentin Pavlov and Petar Slavov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on two issues from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Petar Hristov Petrov. We are continuing with the parliamentary control scheduled for today. The first question is to Ivaylo Kalfin, Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy, who will answer a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov, whom I do not see in this Chamber, except that I do not see Minister Kalfin either. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] The second question is from the MP Cornelia Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u66	He's gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u67	At least Mrs. Ninova is here. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] And Petar Slavov is here, waiting for Deputy Prime Minister for demographic and social policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] He's in the building. He'll be here any minute. [[Relations from the MP Mihail Mikov.]] A ten-minute break until the Deputy Prime Minister shows up. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u68	Dear colleagues, the break is over. Friday the 13th, we continue with Parliamentary control. Here you are on behalf of a parliamentary group, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u69	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! One year has passed since the government and the majority in the Forty-third National Assembly. They were composed of compromises between incompatible parties, but for one purpose, recorded in the government's programme, and it is:.. for stability and low levels of public debt, accelerated growth of the Bulgarian economy, increase in incomes and social payments of Bulgarian citizens. Usually after one year, the government brags about how much it's accomplished. Today we want to present you with a different view, based on a government document, here it is. [[Shows document.]] It is called: "Analise "The Economy of Bulgaria" issued by the Ministry of Finance in September 2015. So, on this document. All you're gonna hear from now on are government quotes. First the promise of economic growth, and first the assessment after one year the economic collapse. Why? Quote: The growth of turnover of industrial enterprises in August fell for the first time since August 2014 and fell by 2.3% year-on-year. Second: "Retail trade went to negative territory in August and fell 1.8% compared to the relevant period of the previous year. " Third, you will surely say: "We build roads, highways, and this revives the economy and production. " - Yes, but no! The building production index reported a decrease of 0.4% year-on-year in August. The government itself wrote. You mean construction down! Four. You will say: "There is security, business works calmly. " - Nothing like that! The country's business climate indicator is down 2.9 points in September! The entrepreneurs are more reserved for their future activities. " - So business is down! Five. We hoped that at least in the field of services there would be some growth, but this report also disproves our hopes. In the case of services in July, service exports are reduced on an annual basis. Six. When you don't have your own economy, you rely, as the Prime Minister says, on the heads of Brussels to help you. Alas! And they don't believe you! Foreign investments of plus 111 in February 2014 fell to minus 163 in April 2015. That is, investments down! Seven. If the partners aren't helping, I'm sure the people will support their government. It's not happening! The Union industry's sales volume and market share developed over the period considered as follows: (positive) It's collapsing to over negative 3 so far. In other words, consumption is down 4% - quotes from a government report. Second, the promise of financial stability and low levels of public debt. Let's see what you have to say about this. The general budget Saldo was positive at 622 million. lv. on a cash-based basis towards the end of August. lv. more in the register. How dare the Ministry of Finance disprove the Prime Minister, who constantly repeats that you have collected 2 billion. And 400 million. lv. Too much?! Who's right and who's lying? If 2 billion were collected. And 400 million. BGN, where did 1 billion go? And 800 million. lv. For two months, there were 622 million left. Lev?! Where did they go, where did they disappear to?! Let's try to clear another contradiction. The government says the surplus accumulated since the beginning of the year has reached 675 million. Euros. The Institute, which compared the financial situation of European countries, concluded that Bulgaria and 4 other countries are the most late among the debtors in Europe. On October 24th, the Bulgarian state spent the revenues for 2015 and now lives on credit, the newspaper quoted Figaro and alarmed about the difficult economic and financial situation of the state. Speaking of surpluses and loans, the low levels of public debt promised in your program have become 12.2 billion. EUR government debt and next year will increase by another 5 billion. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. I mean, the government debt goes up! Third promise: increase in incomes and social payments. In life, and not in words, this has become the freezing of 14 social payments against the most defenseless people - children, mothers, people with disabilities, the socially weak. This happened at a time when this same government report said that food prices were going up and reached inflation of 1.2% on an annual basis. When incomes are frozen and prices are growing, it means one.. impoverishment. Poverty in Bulgaria, poverty is a problem of the problems! Although unemployment is falling with minimal parts of the percentage, this report says that in July and August fewer people have found work on both government and free labour markets in business. Fourth promise - reforms. Educational which, through the transfer of finance to private schools, condemns state and municipal education and guarantees illiterate young Bulgarians, restricts access to education for our children. Health reform if you're rich, you'll be treated if you don't wait if you wait. Retired work until you die. Forensic to control the judiciary and the Bulgarian to wait for a quick and fair trial and to see the corrupt once in prison. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! This government leads Bulgaria to a disaster with full force and is sealed with its own suicide analysis of the state state. Instead of economic growth, the economic downturn. Instead of financial stability, debts, debts for generations. Instead of a social state, an inequality, poverty, aggravating poverty and misery for the people. And if one of the government now stands to disprove me [[BSPLB line: "Gone, gone!"]] To know that he disproves himself. If anyone gets up to justify the country's past governments, look at the comparative tables in this report and then please comment on the facts. The Bulgarian Socialist Party will continue to defend another development of Bulgaria: a strong economic state to support and protect small and medium-sized businesses and Bulgarian production; a strong social state to support weak and defenseless! Another management of Bulgaria is possible! I call on the left people in Bulgaria to ask for it, and we as a party will show it and prove it! [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. We're continuing with parliamentary control. Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin will be the first to respond to Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The first question to Mr. Kalfin is from the MP Petar Slavov about the decline in unemployment to 9% and the sustainability of the downward trend. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u71	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! My question concerns the decline found in unemployment levels, which is a very good and positive trend that we have been seeing lately. By the way, I'm surprised that those who talk a little bit mutated and didn't mention it as something essential and positive to this government, but you will have this opportunity. I hope she continues. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy, at the end of August this year National Statistics reported a decline in unemployment to about 9% of the laborable population, which marks a few years minimum. A higher level of economic growth has also been reported than the budget and overall improving, albeit slowly, the economic environment. At the same time, the summer season is traditionally characterized by higher economic activity and a reduction in unemployment due to increased seasonal employment. Logically, the question arises: how long are these positive trends lasting or temporary? In this regard, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy, please answer the following question: do you think that the registered decline in unemployment rates to about 9% at the end of August this year marks a lasting trend and is not only due to increased seasonal employment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u72	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Here you are, Mr. Kalfin, to answer the question of the MP Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Slavov, of course, when we talk to economic numbers, it is good to actually interpret the numbers as serious economic analyses do, not slogans. The answer I can give you is related to the efforts we have made over the last year to increase jobs and reduce unemployment not only by granting various subsidised state schemes, but by creating real jobs. What we can say is that it is happening by the end of September, according to data from the Employment Agency: for the first time in many years the employed in Bulgaria are over 3 million. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Three thousand. Souls, and the unemployed are 9.1%. This is the data from the Employment Agency by the end of September. You can see different numbers that come from the National Statistical Institute In any event, this year's forecast results for reducing unemployment and creating jobs have been surpassed. I hope this stays as a trend by the end of the year. Indeed there is, it is normal, at the end of each year the number of unemployment is slightly increased, but if we compare all previous years I have tables that show very well - 2015 is the year in which there is a visible reduction in unemployment. We are facing a next problem, which I will ask all MPs, without much vineyard, to think about how we can solve. It is about the interest of business to hire people with disabilities, about the measures we take to help those who are permanently outside the labour market, and more and more of our compatriots remain with low education, who live in remote areas for which we should seek mechanisms to bring them back to the labour market. By this I mean that besides the data that are objective and have them this year another 40,000. people have found jobs and have been feeding their families since the beginning of the year, compared to last year, this trend should be supported by additional actions for the most vulnerable groups and those who drive the economy will not be able to bring them to work. I expect the same concern from all the parliamentary groups on other issues to be linked to the real measures that can be taken. They should not only be subsidised employment, because the budget cannot hire hundreds of thousands of new people, but with increased interest in the real economy, these people should be employed. We continue to work and the results of this year are indicative of good work in terms of job creation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u74	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, indeed, when I asked the question at the end of September, I must admit that from my point of view or from the point of view of the right, things seemed perhaps a little better than now. I will immediately tell you what is bothering us and what we are afraid of, of course, of not having a negative impact, but in any case we believe that it should be taken into account and carefully monitored in order not to harm this good trend, and to reach low levels, I would say, even the lowest levels of several years that we are currently reaching. Several are the essential factors. First of all, of course, I would place the upcoming increase in minimum wage and minimum insurance thresholds for many professions. We've talked to you about this. Undoubtedly this is something that also business said it bothered him and that if these increases were excessive, this additional security burden on the business would probably have a negative impact on employment, that is, it could be expected that it would have a negative impact on the decline in unemployment. That's one thing. The other, of course, we see in the medium-term budget forecast, is that by 2018, we hope that the unemployment rate will reach even 8%, that is, this trend to continue as lasting and to continue creating more jobs than being lost. In this regard, I will quote an analysis of the Institute for Market Economics, which recently published data that in the last two quarters there is already, unfortunately, a decrease in the number of new jobs, i.e. we have a negative trend. It is very important that it is turned around and that we create more and more jobs, not less and less. I'm telling you all these things because I hope you keep them in mind. I'm sure you know them. Stability is really fragile, I think, at least for the moment, the trend is still quite fragile.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u76	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Here you go, Mr. Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Slavov, the topic of minimum wage is really a topic which we often discuss in the Commission. Once again, all the research done by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy shows that the minimum wage does not have a lasting and visible impact on the reduction in employment. Moreover, I would remind: it was 340 leva. in 2014, 380 occurred in 2015, next year we propose to be 420 BGN, which is actually a significant increase as a percentage. At the same time, however, the share of working poor in Bulgaria remains relatively high, which means that our efforts are to stimulate labour incomes, which will create more interest in those who are outside the labour market, especially young people, where the expectations are very high to return to the labour market. Of course, the pay of labor is associated with qualification. There we are ready to help, including business, and with various other programs we help business. High pay and good labour income are, in my opinion, mandatory when we want to talk about a lasting trend. I think that this minimal tool, which we have to increase only the minimum wage, does not define all.. about 11% of the people employed in Bulgaria work on a minimum wage, gives a signal and an incentive in principle to increase the incomes of work... something we should look for in the country, including the concern we have heard about reducing poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u78	The second question is from the MP Cornelia Ninova on the effect of the measures laid down in the youth employment policy. Here you are, Mrs. Ninova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u79	Mr. Kalfin, if your line about "Losungart" and reading serious economic analyses was addressed to the BSP, I think there is nothing more serious than an analysis of the Ministry of Finance of a country. Since I assume you haven't seen him yet, I'll leave him here, take him, if you want to read him, and we'll talk about it again. As far as my question is concerned, I think we all agree that we have two problems that we need to look for a joint solution. The first is how to keep the young Bulgarians in the country, not to go abroad, to provide them with work here, so-called youth employment. The second is that we need to bind education to the economy and provide the economy with as many qualified personnel as are necessary for the production in Bulgaria, because both unemployment is high and business complains that there are no people to be employed in the companies. We've all been saying that for years. In the previous parliament, we took care of work, at least as far as legislation is concerned. Our obligations have been fulfilled and we have adopted changes to laws that have guaranteed the following.. I will remind them because from my tours in the country I am impressed that people do not know them and therefore do not use these measures. In the last parliament, colleagues, we adopted some changes in the laws that enabled employers to employ young people by the age of 29 and the state took payments to these employers. Secondly, we gave companies the opportunity to hire young people internship and the state pays these companies for it. Thirdly, we have given the opportunity to apprentice young people who have no qualifications or high qualifications, and the company will provide them with a mentor who will train them in the trade to ensure that these uneducated young people have some work. We made a commitment to the state to pay the employer for the mentor and for this young man who is apprenticed. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The most important thing is that...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u80	I'm gonna have to ask you a question. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u81	I'm done, Mr. Chairman. ...we agreed that a company that pays a scholarship to a young man while studying will get tax cuts, and she will then hire him to work for two years, guaranteeing him that he will not be unemployed for supporting him while studying. I wonder, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, one year after the adoption of these laws, what is the effect of these laws? How many young people have benefited from these measures? How many companies have taken advantage of them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u82	Thank you. Please, Mr. Kalfin, answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Ninova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For many years our country has been developing special programmes related to employment promotion. They are also under the National Employment Action Plan and the European Funds' funding line. We know that since 2014 an organization has started to be established and it has actually been established in 2014, for the European initiative............................. which implies......... that this thing is happening throughout Europe, every young person up to 29 years to go through the Labour Bureau, to make an electronic file for him, taking into account education, interests, desire to seek one or another kind of work and so on. This programme has started to work very actively since 2014. Especially for the funding, in the models that you mentioned, again I say that the unemployment funding has not been stopped for years, including youth, but specifically this mentoring programme, internship and apprentice programme was a programme that was adopted but was not financially provided. It has started to work in fact since November 2014 with some support from the Republican budget. I would remind you that last year was an extremely disturbing state of the Republican budget at the end of the year, perhaps because of the shift of three governments in one year and in practice it started to work fully, and this is the first programme that is working on the new programming period 2014-2020. At the moment all these payments for a mentor exist. By the way, a large number of companies find it difficult to find a mentor who meets the requirements that are under the Labour Code. We have changed several times, eased company requirements so that this program is more accessible to them. Especially at this point in time, some 3,000 young people have started working. Otherwise, as numbers, because in your question you are asking for 2014 and the nine months of 2015, I will give you several numbers: for 2014 according to programs and employment measures, especially for young people, 4901 young people are provided employment to up to 29 years of age with 1000 employers. For 2015 We are talking about the nine months we have 3161 young people in 960 employers from the real economy. The most important is the employment of the primary labour market. This is the permanent employment, which is not subsidised and the companies have the incentive to hire young people - 43 thousand people started in 2014. The first nine months of 2015 we have 31,000 young people who started from it. About 12% of employment costs go to promote youth employment. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. I'll just mention the numbers. In 2014, the rate of youth employment was 19%; in January 2015 it was 16.4%; by 31 September the rate of 15.3%, which means that by nearly 4% the youth unemployment was reduced, which we are going below average levels for the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u84	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. Mrs. Ninova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u85	Mr. Kalfin, I didn't just hear information about the measure of paying scholarships to young people with a guaranteed contract two years after that and reducing the taxes on such companies. It is extremely important to link education to the country's economy, colleagues, especially if we think long-term with a horizon for this country. Education, education, education again and one that meets the country's economic expectations. We politicians should be expected to give in the perspective of 20 years of what economy this country will do, to bet in schools such medium-sized specialties and so many state-funded places in higher education institutions to provide this economy with personnel, and on this point you didn't say anything. If you've done an analysis and you know to tell me how the new law on school education will affect our intentions to bind the economy to education on what is called a "dual education" because our forecasts are that it will affect badly. Instead of thinking in this direction of both going together to education and economics, the new law will stop this process.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Ninova! Not only this one, but also a lot of other concrete measures that are currently working, I didn't mention them explicitly, because in just three minutes I don't have the opportunity to list the whole policy. I want to thank you for your concern, it is indeed a common issue of the state. My people's work is really about the future of our country. A number of measures are adopted in this respect, including the School Education Act, which you mentioned. There may be different criticisms in it, but he, especially with regard to the dual system, takes a step forward, it can't be backwards because we don't have one right now. Whatever changes, it'll be in a good direction. By the way, you have changed the Labour Code and now I call on you to do this also in the Employment Promotion Act, which is due to be voted on at second reading in Parliament, to allow subsidies to employers who hire exactly under the dual system interns and then train them for a longer period of time. The foreign business is ready to do so immediately, the point is that we should stimulate the Bulgarian business more in this regard. The dual system and vocational education is a very important priority which, I hope, all together, as far as the education system, which is of the whole of society, is concerned, is to try to introduce it in the best possible way. On our part, in terms of labour policy and professional qualifications including, we are ready for this thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u88	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. There are no more questions for you. We move on to the next group of issues that are addressed to Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister. The first question to Mrs. Bachvarova is from the National Representative Magdalena Tasheva on the opening of new centres for registration of refugees. Here you are, Mrs. Tasheva, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u89	Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, about two months ago from this tribune, you announced that you were planning to open six more centers for registration of what you incorrectly call refugees, but you will not say for any reason. I think the reason was that something wasn't agreed there. It's been two months. I hope that they are sufficient to reconcile your program, which, in your expression, will probably not coincide with the most apocalyptic scenario, so I insist today that you announce the settlements in which these six centers will be found. Which buildings, schools, barracks, hostels, hotels and so on will be assigned to accommodate the invading Islamic mass; what capacity will they have; how much does it cost us taxpayers? And most importantly, when you register them, what will you do with them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u90	Please, Mrs. Bachvarova, answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u91	Dear Mr. Karakachanov! Dear Mrs. Tasheva, thank you for the question you are asking me, because I have the opportunity to make a few explanations which, as you have obviously escaped, there are probably other people who have not been able to understand the essence of what we are doing. Two months ago, when I announced this measure, it was about the centres where refugees are registered, the places where their dactiloscopic prints are taken. I'm afraid you're confusing these places with accommodations. Our idea to reveal more such points of registration was linked to the fact that if we capture migrants outside the border, we have to transport them back at a great distance. The aim was to optimize this activity in several places to establish such points, but in the meantime the pressure on our border has weakened, the migratory flow is weak and this does not require the establishment of such centres. As far as the accommodation of refugees is concerned. I say the refugee because we accommodate those we believe have reason to obtain refugee status in their initial registration and verification at the centres of the "Migration" Directorate. We have two types of centers: the first one is of a closed type, where they are checked and established whether they have reason to obtain refugee status. If we find that there is, waiting for procedures and obtaining this status is at the Centers of the State Agency for Refugees. At the moment, their employment is around 23 " 24%," while in the centres of the Migration Department we have more than 100% employment, which shows that we strictly follow the procedures. They're not that fast to do all the necessary checks. The process of waiting, of obtaining the status itself. Foreign citizens have the right to remain in the centers, have the right to go to external addresses. Obviously they prefer this and filling these centers is now lower. But our responsible position is that we must be ready for much higher levels of refugee pressure, which does not depend on either us or our policy, depends on global factors. And against the backdrop of what happened afterwards at the Greek-Macedonian border and above, the borders between the other Balkan countries, we have a plan in which we have secured our activities, if that happens, to be able to deal with this stream.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Mrs. Tasheva, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u93	Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, I am pleased to find that the six centers would actually be dactyloscopic laboratories. Oh, yeah? But you're giving up these six centers because there are no aliens at the border, or at least the flow flows weakly. I wrote down exactly, but I didn't understand what you meant by saying we're catching migrants outside the border. Are you chasing them out of Bulgarian territory?! That's one. Secondly, under the Constitution, we have the right to qualify as refugees and to give refuge only to those whose lives and health have been threatened, I quote: in the protection of internationally recognised rights and freedoms. What internationally recognised rights and freedoms and where have these Islamic masses remained somewhere in the 7th century on the Hidjaz Plateau, which you accommodate in Bulgaria? In addition, on 26 October the Western media announced that the Bulgarian Prime Minister has agreed to accept in Bulgaria part of the 100 thousand migrants that Greece's hotspot will accept. According to the Guardian, this will be somewhere around 50 thousand that will be transferred. It is recorded north of Greece, i.e. in Bulgaria. It's not a weak migraine stream. My question is, what are you going to do with them once you accept them? You have signed your government in Brussels for this programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u94	Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u95	Mrs. Tasheva, you probably missed the previous session, which I answered to a similar question by Mr. Yanaki Stoilov, in fact this was on the blitzcontrol. We didn't make a commitment to that hundred thousand. We are discussing the possibility of interaction in an informal meeting to deal with this wave and there is no such solution. One more explanation. We capture illegal migrants at the Bulgarian-Turkish border in the country's territory in routine checks and specialized operations as we periodically conduct and at the exit of the Bulgarian-Serb border. You realize that with the forces at our disposal, around 900 people, guarding the Bulgarian-Turkish border, we cannot guarantee a high rate of illegal passage and therefore we have put a lot of effort and money into the partition facility. All these places where we register the illegally staying are clear and we control them so that we can compensate for these gaps on the border within the territory of the country and especially at the exit to the Serbian border. Every day of the inquiries I receive, we have such groups that we hold back and I think we are also fulfilling our obligations with regard to the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. The next question is from the National Representative Manol Genov on a police operation in Plovdiv region and in particular the Police Department of Asenovgrad, and the police department of Plovdiv. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! About two months ago, your services, in coordination with the state prosecution, set a precedent for public palsy with the announced large-scale police operation of the Ministry of Interior in the territory of Plovdiv region, where the heads of the district police stations in the town of Asenovgrad and the town of Parvomay were openly detained. It was widely announced that the implementation was carried out by the Ministry of Interior Department. My question to you is this: as a minister and direct head of this department, are you familiar with the knowledge materials, preliminary evidence and what is your professional assessment of the statements of the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior on this case, in which there has been waving the finger of hundreds of police officers how everyone should feel watched, how the police have become feudal rulers hiding various crimes. Do you have, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, an idea of the avalanche destructive effects on the police image among the public? What will you do further if it is found that the Ministry of Interior Office was acting on the case through pressure to obtain complaints and information from citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u98	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Genov! I think it's good that we really make a statement on this case so that you don't feel misled as well as your political power. The employees of the Directorate of Homeland Security have carried out investigative investigations planned, assigned and directed by a monitoring prosecutor from the District Prosecutor's Office. Realizing his powers under art. 198 of the PPC, the monitoring prosecutor briefed me in his estimated volume of checks at the districts of Parvomay and Asenovgrad, as well as I have observed the work of the Directorate of Homeland Security. As a result, two pre-trial proceedings have been initiated and five officials from the two districts have been indicted. A member of the Directorate of the Inspectorate has been appointed who has provided information about the pending checks and has been removed from office and disciplinary proceedings have been initiated against him. An additional inspection of the Inspectorate of the Ministry of Interior has also been given to the prosecutor's office. It is now over, with very serious disciplinary violations of the heads of the Asenovgrad Police Department and the Parvomay Police Department. It has also been found that many of their employees were allowed to commit a number of violations in their daily work. The report by the Directorate of the Inspectorate ends with findings on the formation of disciplinary proceedings for both the heads of the regional governments and all the employees for whom the inspection has detected violations. Your concern for the police image I share, but not in the direction in which you see the search for the solution to this problem. The police image is built daily by the employees themselves. This is why checks are carried out after received signals. The policy of the Ministry of Interior is to sanction those who have allowed them. This is a guarantee that, despite the misconduct of the individual employee, the policy of the office does not change and it ensures that citizens do not tolerate abuse of powers. As regards your claims that police officers may have acted through pressure, I would like to remind you that the Directorate of Homeland Security is carrying out or carrying out actions by the relevant prosecution and the control of its actions is carried out by it. There is no information so far that the examiners of the "Inspector" and the "Inspector" have put pressure in the process of the work. However, I note what you have said that this is essentially a suggestion before the completion of pre-trial proceedings. Anyone who disputes in their course how and how professionally checks have been carried out may be interpreted as protecting those who have committed infringements. The information I have so far shows that the cases in Asenovgrad and Parvomay are clear and are not subject to interpretations. Facts: the prosecution had information about violations in the work of the districts and filed alerts for verification. Directed by the Homeland Security and the Inspectorate shall carry out the checks. Reports of the two Directorates have been sent to the prosecution and serious violations have been found. The prosecution's conclusion is pending on the extent to which the alleged violations constitute a criminal offence. To conclude, I would like to emphasise that in any such case where there are reports of infringements by our employees, a clear procedure is being followed. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The verification is the most objective way to establish the reliability of the signals and is a sign of the work of the Ministry of Interior. Stepping on its results, further action is being taken. Compliance with professional discipline and law are indispensable and firm criteria in the assessment of the work of each employee in the Ministry of Interior and especially for those in leadership positions. In this sense, I think that the actions we have taken are only the right ones.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Genov, you want a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! Concern is not only our political power, as you said, and it is not mine. The concern belongs to all citizens. With that, I have a few things to say to you. However, thank you for your reply, but I do not expect in return your thanks for the patience to await this answer because we have been forced to. Last time you had the opportunity to come here, to take certain signals about future electoral violations, which you still did not prevent, but did not come to answer that question. I seriously doubt your answer to the fact that you are aware of the tragedy of the situation that followed this unfortunate case. If you realized that, the results almost two months after these scandalous arrests, proclaimed then as a large-scale police operation, would have been different. So I'm going to tell you a few things that I want you to remember and find their answers and explanations. For two months, this disciplinary review continues. Yeah, it'll probably be extended. For all this time these employees are without pay, without insurance, without social and health care, of course, and with a blurry public image. What will come up in the end, so the prosecution and the court still have the floor. You said there was no pressure. But no one showed any interest in the statements announced on three national televisions by citizens who had been called up and pressured to testify against the head of government in Asenovgrad as cases from years ago. And all this was announced right after the arrest. Why didn't you have the courage to carry out an inspection of the legality of these actions of your Homeland Security officers in this case, because they are solely subordinate to you? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] That, as I can see from your answer, is not a fact until now. Since no sanctions have been issued, my question is this. Will you refer to these public publications and do such an inspection and when? The effect of this scandalous operation doesn't end here. I advise you to find a way to obtain a reference from the District Court in Asenovgrad and check for a period of these two months how many cases of demonstrable arrogance and disregard for police presence on the territory of this government are. Citizens cursing and threatening cynically patrol teams and uniforms with self-mutilation. They refuse to obey orders, even dare to tear up the constant protocols for established violations of public order.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u102	Mr. Genov, time's up!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u103	I also don't want to imagine that there's something true in the version that this has been done pre-electionally, but no one is disproveting me so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u104	Mr. Genov, time's up. I will ask honourable Members for each of the questions that are being asked, we can talk for hours, let us follow the Rules, and when I give a signal to some of my fellow Members that the time has run out, to be so good in the next few seconds... You have the right to an asshole, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u105	Mr. Genov, you are quoting specific cases that have not been confirmed. I'm afraid after the prosecution's report comes out, you'll have to apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u106	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior is from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov concerning two critical sections of the main road E-79, the Mezdra section, Botevgrad, hiding a danger to the life and health of the participants in the movement. Mr. Bozhinoff, order to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, your legal responsibilities and personal commitments for the security of the movement in the Republic of Bulgaria give me reason to ask you this question, because none of the institutions responsible for road security react adequately to the critical situation created. The section of the Republican road network Mezdra "Botevgrad" is one of the busiest. Here are collected the flows of the Danube Bridge, the ferry Oryahovo and the traffic from the districts of Vidin, Montana and Vratsa. Two new landslides have been activated for several months. On one of them, the guard is in the abyss. One third of the right lane in the direction of Botevgrad has fallen. Crossing cars is difficult, and in certain situations it is impossible. Personally, I've witnessed severe accidents at this precinct. The other section is at the water grip of the hydroelectric power station, where on one side of the road a landslide is activated, and on the other side the compromised lift of the water grip of the hydropower station has reached the road lane and destroyed it after the roadside facilities are already in the water. All attempts to activate stakeholders lead to practically nothing. Then, two months ago, I formulated the issue with this text: What measures will the Interior Minister take to secure these areas and ensure people's lives and health? I have a lot to thank you for today, and there is also something to sharpen the question at this time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u108	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Mrs. Bachvarova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u109	Dear Mr. Bojinov! I share your concern, but I must make the following clarification. For cases involving road accidents, the Ministry of Interior shall have the competence to notify the relevant authorities to take adequate measures. This authority is regulated in art. 66, para. 2 of the Ministry of Interior Act. In this case, I assure you that we have done everything we need: we have informed the competent authorities of the danger of the problem sections and representatives of the Ministry of Interior have participated in the committee, formed according to the instructions of the Regional Road Management Sofia, for consideration. Specifically on your matters. For the first problem section of the E-79 road, which is located at km 178 in the locality of Kolyanovets, as early as 7 April 2015, the Head of the Regional Management in Botevgrad has sent a letter to the Director of the Regional Road Management of Sofia that urgent action should be taken to place signposts, strengthen the road sail and restore the elastic fence. Since April 23rd on the order of the Director of the District Road Management Sofia, a temporary organization of the movement was introduced, which was confirmed on June 12th this year. The responsible for maintaining the alarm is the head of the appropriate road section at Botevgrad District Road Station. On 14 July this year, an on-the-spot review was carried out, including by representatives of the Ministry of Interior. The Commission that has examined has drawn up three proposals to resolve the problem: - preparation of a draft application to the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers; - an urgent award for the development of a technical solution for the restoration of the road route in the areas of departure; and - restoration of the sections as soon as possible. Given that until mid-October no concrete action has been taken on strengthening the sections, by the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, a second notification letter has been sent that the falling of the pavement continues and that some of the restrictive signs placed have fallen. In the second problem section, which is located next to a small hydroelectric power plant, there were irregularities at the very construction of the building and this was signaled by the Ministry of Interior OD Vratsa, the Director of the Regional Road Management and the Executive Director of the plant. The integrity of the Republican road is impaired by the indecent exploitation of some of the plant's construction facilities, because some of the water for the facility has been found to be pouring out and sweeping the terrain between the wall and the road. The responsibility for restoring the integrity of the road section is of the Road Infrastructure Agency. The Director of Regional Road Management Vratsa informed in August the Executive Director of the Kaleteau that he must take urgent measures to restore the integrity of the firewall after the dam. Thus the waters will not be poured between the wall and the first-class route. From now on, your question must be addressed to another minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Bojinov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u111	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Firstly, I would like to thank the absent President of the National Assembly, because when we argued with her in her office whether it was right to ask you, she found you on the phone, asked you for quick action after everything I read that happened, and only after that came the real signs and indications of the first precipice. Ten days ago, work began and only the possible temporary solution has been made. The second critical place is so dangerous that after this debate, an hour should not wait and file! On the road, about 10 meters, literally over the canvas hang tens or hundreds of tons of rock mass that have gone! God forbid, as the people say, there is no way that one who gets there, if the landslide goes, will be saved. This can't be solved with files, with findings! That's what we need today, after the debate is over, to let those responsible go to work! If they didn't do it tomorrow, you have to fire them! As for this water grip, I've approached the Ministry of Environment and Water. The pool directorate has issued a water-use permit. I've been looking at the Road Agency, I've been looking at Irritating Systems. Here, from this tribune, I will put it in such a way that it does not sound the name with which they speculate: gentlemen, water grip and hydropower are not Todor Zhivkov's, and it is not the one who lies to you to be afraid of sanctioning an outrage. On one side is the landslide, on the other side is the sweeping space between the dike and the road. It's at work level. If, God forbid, something happens there, there's no way to get over it. It just takes action! Punish them as Deputy Prime Minister, who with such files solves the questions of a gulf and a landslide that hangs over the road! You can't control it like that! I'm telling you this as a human, not as an opposition, and as a politician from another party.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u112	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Would you like a hole, Madam Secretary? No. We then move on to the next issue, which is again from the MP Georgi Bojinov and is about the results of the activities of the Ministry of Interior in the fight against crime buying and selling votes in the local elections, 2015. Here you go, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u113	Dear Minister, and I will repeat for the thousandth time that buying and selling votes is a crime. Before the local elections, a serious organization was established to combat this crime. Despite the efforts it has shown itself in many places in very ugly form. At a working meeting, which you attended, Mr. President, and you, Mrs. Minister, and the Attorney General, and the DANS, and representatives of the parliamentary parties, have introduced us to the measures you are taking to prevent this phenomenon and punish this crime. At this meeting it became clear that in your ministry you have the names of nearly 1,000 vote buyers, most of whom have criminal history and are sign names. During these elections, hundreds more names joined in this activity. During the local elections some of them from buyers became political players and are now mayors of settlements, and they and their relatives are municipal councilors. My question to you is: what are the results of the struggle of the competent authorities? I'm asking you not to give me statistics on how many are being detained, how many are being questioned, how justified they are and so on. My question is in the direction: what are the results of clarifying the origin of the money that buys elections? Is there any results at this time and can society expect significant results in the future? This is the big issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u114	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Mrs. Bachvarova for Mr. Bozhanov's response.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u115	Dear Mr. Bojinov, you are asking me a question in my capacity as Minister of the Interior and I will answer you inevitably because in this way I answer both your constituents and all citizens. I'll give you a few figures from our statistics. A very large-scale organisation has indeed been established within the Ministry of Interior in cooperation with other institutions so that we can prevent these processes. Unfortunately, we cannot eradicate them, they are due to the applied in the years, unfortunately for many years, practices of the Bulgarian political parties. So you, as well as all other MPs who are concerned about this issue, should take specific legislative initiatives, not just related to the actions of the Ministry of Interior. With regard to the actions of the Ministry of Interior, DANS and the Prosecutor's Office, the results that we have achieved are much higher than those that have been achieved so far in 2011. During the preparation and conduct of the two rounds of elections, the structures of the Ministry of Interior have checked a total of over 4500 signals received by citizens, NGOs and institutions. A total of 170 pre-trial proceedings for crimes related to the electoral process were established. Among them 127 are crimes against the political rights of citizens, compared to 62 pre-trial proceedings, more than twice and a half, for crimes against political rights in 2017, and also against those conducted in 2014. According to the Prosecutor's Office, a total of 15 people were attracted as defendants, for which evidence is required. With regard to eight persons, criminal proceedings have ended with approved agreements, six persons who have suffered the sentence of imprisonment have been suspended for three years and two persons have been subject to probation. These are measures of the D.A.'s office, not the Ministry of Interior. Seventy-two persons have been detained. A total of 2792 persons were warned by protocols under the Ministry of Interior Act. You're talking about a list of 1,000. We have checked almost 3,000 "1270" in the two specialized joint operations between the Ministry of Interior and the DANS, carried out such operations and informed the public, and immediately informed the results of them the day before the elections took place; 1702 persons in the preparation and conduct of the first and second round of elections, outside the specialized operations. Compared to 2011, when 849 alert protocols were issued, the persons were three times more. The day the local elections and the national referendum were held, as well as the day of the run-off were not registered, we were not alerted to serious violations. [[The President gives a sign that the time has expired.]] With this I am not saying that we have solved the problem in any way, but within the limits of our capabilities and within the number we have at our disposal, 13 155 police officers were engaged in the first round, at the second
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Bozhino, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u117	Dear Minister, these vote buyers have spent dozens and perhaps hundreds of millions of leva on their criminal activity. The question is: what is the origin of this money? Under no circumstances is this money that has been paid taxes. I'm thinking logically. If the money is from the subsidies of the political parties represented in parliament and the buying of votes is a crime, that means that the organizers and the financing of this crime stand in this room. There's no other logical assumption. Secondly, if this money is from criminal activity, corruption, tax fraud, smuggling, speculation with VAT, prostitution and drugs, you should be particularly interested in revealing this origin, because it is this money that is not included in the budget for social and other needs, but is served by criminal activity. Where there are no significant results, the logic shall indicate that either the human rights authorities are together unfit or that they are dependent on those involved in this activity. A cruel finding, but what is repeated millions of times, that buying and selling votes is a crime, someone can say a lot of noise about nothing, ladies and gentlemen, is nothing. I will quote half a sentence from a book that describes the scariest history in Europe from 225 years ago. Time is described as this: When it became clear that state laws were unable to stop human passions, then instead of ballots came the guillotine to move, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to say that those who, after human passions for power, do what we are talking about, come another avalanche of passions and give it to God in Bulgaria not to happen, but they need guarantees that the law will be respected, that those who keep it are worth paying them and revealing the origin of the money that buys the elections. If there is no result, the danger remains, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u118	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. A hole, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u119	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u120	You don't want to. We move on to the last question to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova, and he is from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov about the massive presence of the gendarmerie in the town. Sliven and the region on the day of the second round of elections. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u121	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, my question to you is in your capacity as Minister of the Interior. On the day of reflection before the elections, I am referring to the second round of October 31st and November 1st this year, dozens of cars with the inscription "Gendarmeria" were circling Sliven and the region, mainly in the neighborhoods "Nadezhda", "Komluka", the big villages such as Topolchane and Krushare. As far as I am aware, the so-called under the new Law, the Specialized Police Forces are mainly used in the event of a risk of mass riot, anti-terrorist activity, public order protection, such as rallies, protests, marches, provide assistance in cases where there is enough, and here I repeat the word "complacent" and I repeat the word "reliant," data on the risk of crime and its prevention. My question very briefly, Madam Minister, is: which of these things I have listed for you, or perhaps some other reason, is at risk of a refugee wave, an attempt at terrorism or something that is unknown to the public, imposed the presence of so many specialized police forces in the town of Sliven and its region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u122	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mrs. Bachvarova, please respond to the MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u123	Dear Mr. Ermenkov, Sliven is the area in which the most signals were received in the country for violations of the Election Code and the rights of voters. Following the completion of the first round of the elections, an analysis of the operational situation has been carried out and the management of the Regional Operations Headquarters has made a plan with priority tasks for the implementation of which additional measures have been required. A reasoned proposal was prepared for sending an additional number of employees to Sliven by the Directorate of Gendarmerie, which was approved by the Ministry of Interior. A total of 48 employees and 10.................. and....................................................................................................................................... from................... from.............................................................................. The analysis, good planning and implementation of the Regional Operations Headquarters plan has helped to calm the run of the run-off. The day has passed without gross violations of public policy and law enforcement officers have taken all necessary measures on citizens' signals of unlawful action. The use of gendarmerie in these cases is not a precedent in Sliven. We use these forces where necessary, when there are simultaneous events. These forces were used on the first round and elsewhere. After the need for Burgas has been removed, they are redirected to Sliven because another large part of the employees was provided with its return to protect the state border.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Ermenkov, a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u125	Dear Minister, I understand that these forces have been used elsewhere, and there has been no need for their presence, most likely because there was no need for a runoff. For this reason, they were redirected to that area where there was a runoff and which was in danger that representatives of the Bulgarian Socialist Party would win it because all the arrests, preventions and everything that was done there was done against organized activists, members of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. I'm going to give you one particular example, and you're going to tell me if this is a normal phenomenon and whether it's a police way of acting. On October 31st, on the day of reflection, at 22.00 p.m. on the territory of the village of Hotchane in the residence of the face Bozidar Hristov Yordanov, without legitimization, 11 representatives of police and gendarmerie, accompanied by the person Petrov, who is a regional police officer for the village of Hotlochane, invade. The entry into the house is carried out without warning and without legitimization, in front of the eyes of the family of Bozhidar Yordanov. Under strong, stressful authorities have asked him and his family whether they consent to conduct a search. Guess if he had the guts to say no? They're giving verbal consent to conduct the search. Questions have been asked by the illegitimate persons whether they own electoral lists, as well as money to buy votes on election day, as a result of which the person is afraid to exercise his electoral rights the next day. I was dating him. I could hardly convince him that all of this had happened for some reason that they probably had to. The next day, in a similar way, three others were examined detained in the same way, in the same illegitimate manner. This, in my opinion, is one of the ways that gendarmes and police have used on the day of reflection to suggest the right thought of voting. And the next day, especially if they had that desire to vote under pressure, to vote the way the police told them not to arrest them twice. So please, Madam Minister, I don't justify losing the election with this thing. I just want to tell you that the things that are written here are true, and for the 127 signals that you mentioned, if they were not a lie, you never once told me whether they were reliable and whether they were serious enough in their credibility to be verified. Because otherwise, you know by anonymous signals, by written applications, many, many checks can be carried out, but none of them in Sliven ends with the establishment of buying votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u126	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mrs. Bachvarova, a coat?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u127	Mr. Ermenkov, I strongly object to the suggestion that the employees of the Ministry of Interior and Gendarmerie have a bearing on the electoral rights of citizens in the sense of their violation and influence of the election results. I absolutely object to that! All the signals have been checked, and they're with the D.A.'s office. I hope you don't think the prosecution has also tried to corrupt this vote. The case you are quoting is not known in detail, but it coincides with the period when we conducted specialized police operations to clarify the situation at the moment and to carry out a check on individuals for whom there have been signals from other years. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u128	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u129	This is an assessment during the operation. I don't think 12 people are worth spending on one vote, so I don't see any logic in that your doubt. We just did our job then. I think that also had a favorable effect on the situation. That's what I can tell you. I don't accept, I don't accept suggestion!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u130	I'm not surprised!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u131	Thank you, Madam Secretary. [[Noise.]] Please be quiet, colleagues. This was the last question to Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. We are moving on to a question to the Minister of Economy Mr. Bozidar Lukarski. The question is from the MP Velizar Enchev concerning personnel changes in the management of the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology and the need to strengthen its administrative capacity.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u132	Mr. Chairman, as a representative of the opposition, and I address you as a representative of a ruling coalition, I would like to point out to you that you allowed, at the beginning of the parliamentary review session, the MPs to wait 10 minutes for the ministers. So it was seen that this government treats the National Assembly as a subordinate institution and the Constitution is the opposite. We are not a ministerial republic, but a parliamentary republic.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u133	Mr. Enchev, first of all, you're in the stands to ask a question. Second of all, it's correct to get on the stand and put your card on. Thirdly, whether you represent the opposition or the Holy Synod, you cannot comment on something that is not my fault. In the absence of a minister, rest is given until parliamentary control appears and begins. Be so kind as to develop your question, do not deviate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u134	Ministers are obliged to be at the parliament meeting in time during parliamentary control. We should not wait for them, and they should wait for us, because we are a parliamentary and not a minister's and prime minister's republic. That's my line on yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u135	Put your card on, no cheap numbers, and ask yourself the question correctly to Minister Lukarski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u136	I'll tell you right away: these aren't cheap tricks. This is a principled position of the Bulgarian opposition. My question to Mr. Lukarski is as follows: on 23 September this year the Council of Ministers on your proposal released Dimitar Stankov as Chairman of the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology and appointed Pawn Ilchev as a temporary acting member. The motive for the personnel change you have made is, I quote: The Change takes into account the need to strengthen the administrative and management capacity of the Institute. In accordance with art. 10, para. 4 of the Law for Chairman of the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology is appointed a person with Bulgarian citizenship, with higher education in natural or technical sciences, with an educational-qualification degree of Master with a service or service experience not less than 10 years in the field of measurements and with prominent professional qualities in the field of metrology. However, the education of Pawn Ilchev is the protection of the cultural and historical heritage of Bulgaria. What does this specialty have to do with metrology? My question is this: is Mr. Ilchev responsible for the appointment of President of the Institute Mr. Peacock Ilchev to the requirements for taking up the position referred to in art. 10, para. 4 of the Law on Measurements and, if it does not respond, how will the Institute's administrative and management capacity be strengthened by his appointment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u137	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. For an answer, the Minister of Economy Mr. Bozhidar Lukarski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u138	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, as you rightly pointed out, the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology, not meteorology, in metrology, is the right one, is led by a president, who is determined by a decision of the Council of Ministers and appointed by the Prime Minister. By Decision No 743 of the Council of Ministers of 24 September this year Dimitar Kostov Stankov was released as Chairman of the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology and was appointed and not appointed, Mr. Pawn Atanasov Ilchev In the Law on Measurements there are no regulatory specific requirements which should be met by the Vice-President of the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology. In this sense, Mr. Pawn Ilchev is not the holder of the post and does not need to meet the specific requirements laid down in art. 10, para. 5 of the Law on Measurements, namely to have a work or service internship not less than 10 years in the field of measurements and to have expressed professional qualities in the field of metrology. The Institute employs employees and managers with the necessary knowledge, skills and competences, which is a guarantee for fulfilling the commitments of the same Institute. Some of the problems of the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology are accumulated due to lack of administrative experience and the inability of the already released Chairman of the Institute to exercise effective control over the activities of the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology and its employees. The President of BIM should not only be a narrow specialist in a particular field, but also a good and experienced manager with well-developed management skills and qualities. In conclusion, it should be noted that the problems of the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology are not only in its management capacity, but are also of a financial and social nature, something that the Ministry of Economy is currently changing, granting funds for which the relevant measures are being identified. Thank you for your attention. I'm waiting for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u139	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a line, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u140	Whether President or Vice-President, it is about a highly specialised institution and I will recall once again Mr. Ilchev does not have 10 years of service in the field of measurements, and this is the requirement under this article that I quoted. Moreover, the Law, Mr. Minister, not only sets the formal requirement for a 10-year internship, but also sets the additional requirement for prominent professional qualities in the field of metrology, which Mr. Ilchev clearly cannot possess without the relevant education in the field of measurement. I repeat his education is a cultural and historical heritage. Obviously, Mr. Minister, it is about a party appointment, as this is not a secret, but let it be heard from the platform of parliament, Mr. Pawn Ilchev is a member of the Party of Citizens.He is Vice-President of the structure in the region of Vitosha, Sofia and I therefore allow myself to say that as a result of this chamber policy, the state administration becomes a guardian of party staff with many, very questionable competence or more precisely, in this case, with no competence, as there can be no connection, no connection between even a deputy, temporarily managing the Institute of Metrology and cultural and historical heritage. Of course, with all due respect to the entire profession in this area, the cultural and historical heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u141	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u142	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, as I have already pointed out to you, Mr. Ilchev is temporarily performing this position. This is a permanent, permanent not only administrative practice, but a permanent caselaw where it is suspended or where due to illness it cannot carry out its activities the holder temporarily acting as one of his alternates until the appointment of one who, in the present case, must and will meet the conditions. Just to pay attention to competence and professional skills. I would like to point out to you that under the temporary implementation and the temporary leadership of Mr. Ilchev was adopted on 1 November 2015. The Strategic Strategy for the Development of Metrological Control 2016-2020........................................ and the General Purpose of this Strategy is the development of the potential of the national metrology infrastructure to meet the needs of users from obtaining the required amount of accurate and............................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u143	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are going to answer an up-to-date question from the Minister of Environment and Water Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva. She will answer a question from the MPs Mihail Mikov and Ivan Ibrishimov about the construction of a landfill for household waste in the region of the village of German, Dupnitsa municipality. To develop the issue, there is a popular representative Mr. Ibrishimov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u144	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question is about the intention of the Mayor's team of Dupnitsa municipality to build a municipal waste depot in the area of the village of German, Dupnitsa Municipality, namely: Dear Minister, are all legal, regulatory, environmental and decision-making procedures in the Ministry of Environment and Waters for the construction of a municipal waste depot in the region of the village of Dupnitsa?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u145	Thank you. For an answer, Minister Vasileva, please come in, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u146	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ibrishimov, according to the requirements of the Waste Management Act, municipalities are responsible for the management of municipal and construction waste formed in their territory, for the selection of a site, construction, operation, closure and monitoring of the landfills for household waste or other installations and facilities for the recovery and/or disposal of municipal waste. In this sense, decisions are made by municipalities, not by the Ministry of Environment and Water. The Waste Management Act introduces a regional approach and management of municipal waste and the waste management regions are defined in the National Waste Management Plan. Until 2011, municipalities in the current region of Dupnitsa were part of Kocherinovo region. In May 2011, the municipalities of the region decided to divide it into two regions - Dupnitsa and Blagoevgrad. The municipalities of Dupnitsa, Kyustendil, Sapareva Banya, Bobovdol, Nevelino and Trekliano are included in the region. The construction of both regional systems was planned to be supported by funding under Operational Programme "Environment". Given the delay in preparing the necessary application documents and the inability to implement the projects within the eligibility deadlines of the Programme, they are removed from the Programme. In 2013 it was decided in principle to be financed by national funds. According to information provided by the Regional Association of Municipalities of the Region of Dupnitsa, actions were taken in 2012 to prepare forecasts for quantitative and morphological composition of waste, engineering and geology report, hydrogeological report and hydrological report on potential sites for deployment of regional depots in advance of geodesicical surveys and photographs, cost analysis and benefits. On the basis of these documents, Dupnitsa Municipality is entrusted with independent experts preparing an environmental impact assessment report. The report concludes that the site in the village of German is suitable for the construction of the regional system. Under the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act, an investment intention is to be carried out after a decision on an environmental impact assessment by the competent authority, in the case of RIEW Pernik. The EIA procedure requires opinions from all institutions and specialised departments having competence over the investment proposal, including an assessment of the application of best available techniques. The affected public shall be informed in the appropriate order and the mandatory public consultation meetings have been held. At all stages, the necessary conciliation opinions on the eligibility of the activities by all competent authorities involved in the case have been drawn up. A decision has been issued by the Director of RIEW Pernik, after a positive opinion of the Expert Environmental Council at RIEW, to approve the implementation of the investment intention. The EIA decision was appealed by a Society with Public Useful Activity "Future for German" before the Administrative Court of Pernik, which confirmed by Decision of 6 October this year the act issued by the Director of RIEW. At present, in view of the complaint lodged at the Supreme Administrative Court of the Republic of Bulgaria, the decision of the Administrative Court of Pernik has not entered into force, which is why there has been no action taken on the implementation of the project for the construction of the Regional Centre for the Treatment of Non-hazardous Wastes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u147	Thank you for your answer, Minister Vasileva. For a cue, please, Mr. Ibrishimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u148	Madam Minister, my concern is precisely from the decision made by RIEW Pernik for positive EIA. I'm going to bring out a few facts that you may not know. First of all, the area on which this depot is intended to be built is only 400 m from the houses of the village of German. Secondly, over 200 acres of land for which the site is intended, 150 acres of land are fertile and are even terraced for plantings, for vines. Thirdly, the route of Struma Motorway, which was officially opened about a month ago, was moved precisely because of the landslide terrain that had to pass the highway, and in fact this terrain is designed to build this depot. And most importantly, in the public discussion of 500 residents attending this public discussion, there are five signatures of the inhabitants of the village of German, Dupnitsa Municipality, against the construction of this landfill for household waste. And this is more than half the population of the village of German. Therefore, I ask you to challenge a new inspection, a new committee to review this decision and, above all, to comply with the wishes of the inhabitants of the village of German, because they are doomed in my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u149	Thank you, Mr. Ibrishimov. Mrs. Minister, you will use the right to the backrest. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ibrishimov, as I mentioned, the decision issued by the Director of RIEW Pernik is an administrative act which, within the meaning of the Bulgarian legislation, is subject to appeal before the District Administrative Court of Pernik, which has ruled with rejection of the appeal of the applicants, as part of the grounds of the court, states: "The act is in line with the substantive provisions of the field of environmental protection and is in line with environmental protection for the current and future generations. As I mentioned, there is a subsequent complaint lodged with the Supreme Administrative Court which is under consideration. In that sense, I have nothing to say, let the court rule. The arguments that you quoted are part of the arguments put forward by the court. We await the ruling of the Supreme Administrative Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u151	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Thank you for participating in Parliamentary control as well. We are going to answer an up-to-date question to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Ivaylo Moskovski. He will answer a question of the National Representative Krasimir Yankov on the policy of the Ministry for Management and Development of Sofia Airport and the results of the company's activities. It is right to say: the company but you have the floor, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the principal of the Airport Varna. [[Noise and lines.]] Excuse me, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u153	He followed closely, I got that impression. Continue, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u154	In connection with the alarming signals of a number of violations in the activities of "Sofia Airport" EAD, which is the principal of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and some personnel appointments I address to you the following questions: First, what is the previous policy of the Ministry regarding the management and development of Sofia airport? Secondly, what specialists are involved in the management of the company, what are their management programs and the results obtained from the work so far? How is the selection and appointment of employees at Sofia Airport carried out, what control was carried out by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications? And thirdly, will inspections and audit of the company be carried out? What are the views of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications for Management and Development of Sofia Airport in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u155	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u156	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, the policy of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications regarding the management and development of Sofia airport has always been linked to achieving good efficiency of the company's activities, effective maintenance, modernisation and development of airport infrastructure, achieving a high level of safety and security of air transport, ensuring competitiveness of the market and high quality of the offered airport services, and last but not least, limiting the negative impact and impact of air transport on the environment. When choosing the members of the Board of Directors of the company from the system of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications shall be taken into account and shall take into account the qualities held by the applicants, whether they comply with the requirements laid down in the Commercial Law and the Rules of Procedure for the exercise of the rights of the State in commercial companies with State participation in the capital and the Statute of the company. As a result of the implementation of the management policy of the Board of Directors of the company, financial results were obtained from the operation of Sofia airport for the period January to August 2015 with a profit of almost 4 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. $800,000. lv. More than planned and with almost 1 million. 200,000. lv. more than the profit reported for the same period of 2014. For the same reporting period, the company reported revenue of 75 million. BGN, which is 350,000. lv. More than planned and 8 million. Three hundred thousand. lv. more than reported for the same period of 2014 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid granted by the Region is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Passengers representing an increase of 5,6% compared to the relevant period for 2014. Kadrova's policy, the selection and appointment of employees at Sofia Airport is a matter of competence of the management team of the company, with the appointment of employees of the company depending on the specific need of staff with the relevant skills necessary for the normal implementation of the activities of Sofia Airport. On the third issue, the authorities of the State Financial Inspection Agency carried out a financial inspection at Sofia Airport, for which Report No DI1SF-9 was drawn up from 5 February 2015. As a result of the verification, no material violations were found. The Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications also provides for planned inspections and audits of the company with internal audit bodies and, of course, if there are signals, they are always reacted to. Our Ministry provides that the future development of Civil Airport for Public Use Sofia will be carried out by granting it a concession. As a result of the implementation of the general policies in the field of concessions of the Ministry, preparatory actions are currently being carried out to grant a concession to the Civil Airport for Public Use Sofia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u157	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u158	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Moskovski, you have just answered the question so we are under the impression of a better management team at the time of the company, for better results. The number of passengers and the number of revenues and profits were increased. At the same time, you said what is bothering the employees of the company at the moment, and with a huge resonant it also worries those who use the services of Sofia Airport EAD the future of the airport in the concession aspect. What requires Sofia Airport to be concessionated? If an investment is needed, an extension of terminals, a new runway, as it was necessary for Varna airport and Burgas airport, we should agree that the state currently does not have the resources and the company cannot provide the future investment. But what good will it do the state? Is it better management if you answer that, you would contradict what you just said or the need to invest, cut staff, or any other reason? Why Sofia Airport should be concessionated, provided that any expert will tell you that in future the airport will increase. The revenue will increase, and the state as owner, the Ministry as principal, is not dealing with the future challenges facing the company itself when increasing the airport, or should it just be concessionated because you are in power? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u159	Mr. Yankov, thank you for the line. For the doppelganger, Minister Moskovski, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Iankov, there is a lot of logic in what you say, and my answer will go beyond fixation in particular at Sofia Airport. I had the opportunity to attend a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications to explain the concept that we follow, taking decisions to grant a concession. First, one clarification that the concession procedure itself does not imply a change of ownership. The ownership of Sofia airport remains public. The idea of concession, following, of course, a hundred per cent Law on concessions, is: because both in the previous term and at the beginning of this term we are extremely difficult to solve the issue of debt in Bulgarian State Railways. In the previous term, we found the railways by 800 million. lv. a debt which could in no way be serviced by the company itself. At the beginning of our current mandate, following a number of measures that we have implemented in our previous term, they were largely extended, we have managed to reduce railway obligations to around 600 million. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u161	What do railways have to do with this statistic?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u162	Listen to me. I asked for a little more time to explain the situation. We held talks in the cabinet with the participation of the Finance Minister and Prime Minister. We have come to the conclusion that the transport system must find its own resources in order to repay these obligations, as the other loans were not once State-backed. In other words, there are no state guarantees and the state has no reason to withdraw these huge amounts from the budget to pay them. So we must burden every taxpayer in this country to pay the debts of the railways. You can make a reference to what time these debts were accumulated. Secondly, we have decided that the transport system is looking for resources within it to repay these obligations. This is a critical time. Creditors no longer agree in any way to cancel, nor are they prepared to make any compromises. From this point of view, looking at what we have in the Transport sector, the only asset that could correspond to such a concept is Sofia Airport. The procedure we will prepare for a concession will have a specificity in it. We predict that during the competition, which we hope will be obtained for Sofia Airport, 35-year concession fees will mostly be paid in advance, in order for these funds to be used for repayment. Of course, a few more things have to happen in parallel. One and most important of them is to request a notification from Brussels of State aid. I hope that everything will be okay and that this will happen, there will be a sufficient number of candidates competing in this procedure to achieve the maximum price. A small percentage of concession fees will remain, which will continue to be paid until the 35-year expiry of the concession. There's an investment volume planned. At this point, there are no final financial analyses. They'll be ready on the 17th and 18th. There are interim reports on these analyses that give us reason to believe that we could obtain an amount sufficient to repay the debts of the railways.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u163	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This was important to the thousands of people working in the BDZ system. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the responses of the Minister of Agriculture and Food Mrs. Desislava Taneva. The first question she will answer is from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova on the loss of funds under the Rural Development Programme 2007 Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u164	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! My question is related to the losses of funds under the Rural Development Programme 2007-2013, as well as the..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We're at the end of the programming period. 2015 is the last year in which by the end of December we can pay money under the programme. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food as the Managing Authority of the Programme is likely to have estimates and opportunities to brief us on how the Programme was implemented in this programming period and what are the potential losses of both programmes. I would like to point out that, especially after August, the Ministry of Agriculture has made the necessary efforts to manage to minimize losses, given the fact that there has been a significant loss, but there are different numbers in space that speculate mostly on potential losses. They run from 78% to 92% for the Rural Development Programme, and for the Fisheries Programme.................................................................................................................. I hope that in your reply you will let us know what assessments the Ministry of Agriculture makes of the losses for the entire programming period, including for 2013 under the M+2 rule, and also what analysis you are doing for the reasons that have accompanied the problems in the absorption of funds in this programming period in order to prevent them from being allowed in the next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u166	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, honourable Members of the National Assembly! First of all, thank you for your assessment of the actions taken by the Ministry and the Fund for the conclusion of the old programming period. Since the beginning of September 2015, on the basis of an analysis and an estimate carried out jointly with the State Fund.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In addition, in order to effectively absorb the funds under the Programme in September 2015, an exceptional target was announced for applications for support under the measure 121 "Modernisation of agricultural holdings', with an initial budget for the acceptance of 50 million equivalents. Euros. Following analyses on the amount of funds released under the measure, on 6 November, we increased the budget by 12 million. Euros. The adoption of the measure will give the farms an additional opportunity to invest in their farms. Despite the short term, 1006 project proposals came during the reception. So far, the approved applications are over 880, the actual contracts signed at yesterday's date are 620, and the contraction will be completed by the middle of next week. I would like to state that all applications submitted which have five points above this will in practice be negotiated without any conditions regarding payment. In order to effectively implement the projects under this adoption, we have prepared an amendment to the regulations, which extended the deadline for their implementation until 30 November. As a result, the optimistic forecast is for almost complete payment of the targets set by most measures, which is expected in an optimistic manner to charge no more than 10 million. Euros. With regard to municipalities, since the pessimistic option of loss depends on whether and to what extent the applications submitted by municipalities will be approved and paid, measures 321 and 322 speak. What's the situation? In turn, or in implementation, there were 1 billion contracts. 240 million. lv. to the month of August. At the moment, after extending for the second time the deadline for submission of applications from municipalities, only five municipalities have not applied for payment: Dimovo, Kotel, Nedelino, Smyadovo and Suhindol. Their projects, which were not actually submitted for payment, totalled 34 million. lv. of all the 1 billion. 240 million. BGN, which were in circulation. That's a good result. From now on, the pessimistic option of losing funds depends on the requests submitted and the extent to which the costs incurred will be approved and paid out by the State Fund. If we move in the average size as they have been so far, the loss of the program in the pessimistic version should not exceed 35 million. Euros. It's in the most pessimistic way. So far, the total loss under the Programme for the old programming period is 143 million. EUR at four years total recalculation, or by fulfilling some realistic estimates of absorption we will go to total absorption between 92% and 93% of the budget of the Rural Development Programme for the old programming period. I would just like to add, as we are working in daily communication with the State Fund, which is working in an emergency mode at the end of the year, we will do a new analysis on the payment of funds by 20 November 2015 and will send the latest correction to the 16th notification sent, which in fact concerns the provoking of budgets and the absorption of the budget under the old Rural Development Programme. If this result, as the analyses indicate, is implemented, it should be taken into account that this is a very good result for the first programming period of a Member State under the Rural Programme. With regard to the sector............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The total losses so far are 17 million. 220...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u167	Madam Minister, can you continue in the duplicate procedure, as the estimated time has been significantly exceeded. Would you like a line, Professor? Bachvarova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! By wishing you to really minimize losses because this is important for the industry as a whole, you still need to make an analysis of the errors made throughout the programming period, so that at the end of each year the administration faces claws in order to be able to absorb the resource for the year in question. The time limit that you have indicated for agreeing projects under 121st you may have been informed, encounters extremely many problems with the possibility for farmers to secure loans, and also the equipment they need to deliver is, for the most part, not available. Therefore, there will probably also be a huge question mark on the best wishes whether things can happen within the time limits that the State Fund is asking for on the payment requests. I could also ask you here the question relating to the 15th notification. In your interview you say that Measure 214 was important in April 2012 and in 2013. For the sake of minimizing the losses of funds. Now this notification creates some discomfort and problems, and it is important to know what trends there are. Will this notification be approved to the European Commission? Of course, the Fisherman Programme you started with is important to hear your opinion as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u169	For the duplicate, the Minister of Agriculture and Food Mrs. Desislava Taneva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u170	Thank you for your understanding, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, to answer your line and my further questions. Yes, of course, we've done the appropriate analysis. Some of these errors or distortions to achieve the objectives of implementing the programme have been taken into account when writing the new programme and approving it. As regards the questions you have raised, first, for Measure 121. Yes, we are aware that there are certain difficulties, but this was the best we could do for farmers, given the interest in Measure 42 and the high degree of dissatisfaction with the applications submitted. We hope that by 30 November, indeed, they will be able to implement the projects for the most part, and in our analyses we have also set the corresponding rate of non-compliance with the problems that are encountered. We don't have another option for an extension. Everyone is aware that payments must be made by the end of the year and in practice the budget was the technique available to suppliers. With regard to the fifteenth notification and the 214th call, the Agro-environment payments and the introduction of the address, changes which sparked a public debate among the community benefiting from the measure. The fact that this measure helped not to lose on agroecology in the old programming period is undeniable. Of course, she has her effects. For the next programming period, as it has a long-term commitment, you very well know it.................................................................................................. The 15th notification proposed amendments to the measure that you are referring to. The relevant communication has been made with the Commission services, and all the questions that have been asked us have been closed. In this sense, we expect its approval. According to the regulations, we had the right and made the amendment to the Regulation on the implementation of this measure, so there is, of course, an organisation to notify farmers of a little over 1200 who have benefited from this measure and to make their choice whether they will continue to fulfil their commitments, which have been amended in the direction of an increase in order to ensure that agri-environment effects are achieved with an appropriate change of the ingredient, or will choose to give up those commitments, and they will not owe, there will be no sanctions on the funds already received. We expect, of course, within the time limits laid down by regulation to receive this notification. Once again, communication with the Commission regarding this amendment has ended. I would also like to say that every farmer himself must assess the conditions are promulgated whether or not it will continue under the changed conditions. I mean, there's no one to guarantee him that if he doesn't meet those conditions, he can get some payments. That should be clear to everyone. With regard to the Operational Programme I've started how much loss so far. The situation is slightly different here than in the Rural Development Programme. The calculations are: since 2009. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with 132,000. EUR; 2011 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute State 568 thousand. EUR; 2012 The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the 525 thousand. Euros. Here the total loss is 17 million. 226 so far. The budget is still under the old programming period and is 106 million. Euros. From now on, we do not expect a loss for this period, given the really very high bargaining rate, regardless of the difficulties that are encountered. The program's a little different. The projects currently being implemented must be completed and paid out by the beneficiaries by 31 December this year. Contracts and deadlines applied for payment according to their respective deadlines shall have the beneficiaries. The deadline is April 15th next year. The deadline for payment by the State Fund is 30 June next year. So here we have six months more, but the beneficiaries themselves need to know that they must have completed their projects and paid them back by December 31st of this year. The main reason for this greater loss rate, of course, is also the four-year delay of the start of the program, which should not be repeated, which will happen because the programme was returned at the beginning of our mandate. It was officially sent and we expect her approval by the end of the year. We are currently working on preparatory procedures, which will allow us to open the new Programme for......................................................................................... EUR for potential beneficiaries. Thanks for understanding the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u171	Thank you. We're moving on to the next question from Prof. Svetla Bachvarova on non-financing of activities in the structures of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for 2015 Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! My question concerns the implementation of the 2015 budget. of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. As with the adoption of the budget, one of our objections was that the revenue of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is highly overvalued, for which your written reply to the revenue received by the Ministry shows that it is not implemented and at the same time transfers to Budget 2015 are insufficient. Here I see a gap in your response, as under Budget 2015 you have transfers 52 million. BGN, while in your reply, there were probably additional subsidies at that time, reaching 69 million. lv. subsidies. In any case, the majority of the secondary authorising officers have extremely large problems related to the financing of the Fund "Work salary', some of the structures such as the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, the Agricultural Academy, the Urbans Executive Agency, are not sure whether they will receive their salaries, given the expenditure ceilings set at the beginning of the year. In addition, they have significant obligations towards suppliers. If they are left, if they are not covered, this will accordingly be transferred to the next budget. A budget update is pending. As far as I'm concerned, and I see what the ministry has to offer, an update of four million. My questions are related to this: how will you deal with this challenge to find these costs or liabilities that are accumulated, and respectively this additional budget of four million in what directions will it be spent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u173	Thank you, Professor. Bachvarova. For an answer, please come in Minister Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u174	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, honourable MPs! When examining the draft budget for 2015 in the Forty-third National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria in its opinion to the Committee on Agriculture and Food, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food informs the MPs about the structures, including the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and the Agricultural Academy, and activities that remain underfunded through the framework of the Budget 2015. During the implementation of the budget for 2015 for part of the underfunded activities of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, additional funds were provided by a decree of the Council of Ministers, namely: first, for vaccination against the disease of 625 thousand. lv.; secondly, for the implementation of the National Programme for the control and eradication of the disease 535 thousand. lv. At the same time, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has taken a number of measures and actions to limit expenditure both in the central administration and in the secondary officers with a budget. This in turn enabled some of the savings to be redirected to funding activities at the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and the Agricultural Academy. During the implementation of the budget of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, additional 5 million were provided. 740,000. BGN, and the Agricultural Academy of 2 million. 200,000. lv. at the expense of internal restructuring of expenditure on the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. On the basis of an analysis of the implementation of the budget as of 31 October 2015, the Ministry will reassign the savings of some of its structures in the system to finance high-priority activities. Until 30 September 2015, the Agricultural Academy received 2 million from the State Fund. 524 thousand. lv. under direct payment schemes which support the conduct of experimental production at the Academy. I would like to point out that in the adoption of the update of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food will receive an additional 4 million. lv. under its 2015 budget to finance the allowances paid during the year for staff released as a result of the structural reforms carried out. Some of these funds will be directed to the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and the Agricultural Academy. Yes, there is a delay in paying income at the Executive Agency for Combating hails. This is one of the structures in which he has the most obligations. I want to assure you that all personnel will receive their remuneration.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u175	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. Here's a line for you, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, however, it is clear from your reply that the budget of the secondary officers, as provided at the beginning of the year, did not provide normal conditions for carrying out the activities, because, in order to obtain any revenue from the secondary officers, the relevant costs are also necessary, not only the Fund of Staff, but the majority of the callers were the only and significant part of their budget. I would like to ask as an additional question, however, well, that despite the significant cuts in the system of the Food Agency, 350 at the Agricultural Academy, the benefits will be paid, but remain obligations which you probably know are important to be borne within this budget. For example, the Food Agency has a commitment of nearly 8 million to the energy producers. This is repeated every year and at the end of the year there is a problem. They're not in the budget of the Food Agency, they're looking for reservations. I see in the next budget that they are put into the budget of the Food Agency, but this is a significant amount or 2 million obligations to suppliers. With this issue, I would really like to draw attention to the need and efforts that the Ministry can make to cover all the obligations and to launch 2016 with the most clean commitments and opportunities to cover alimony, which will also lead to revenue in the secondary authorising officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u177	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u178	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Bachvarova! Indeed, in practice, the structure that remains with overdue obligations, which we could hardly say can be dealt with within this budget and the next, despite the savings we have made, and we have paid some of the overdue obligations, this is the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. In the Agricultural Academy, obligations are more of an ongoing nature, the delays are very few and they will be paid off. We're talking mainly about the obligations we have on the activities of the escargots. This is a problem that is not new. Part of the obligations, in fact, are two years behind. Another question is the way in which the negotiation of these activities has been carried out and whether the price achieved is fair, but anyway within the budget we have, the savings we have made, we will also try to reach certain agreements on a way in which creditors can be satisfied.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u179	Thank you, Madam Secretary. There is a question for you from the MP Tasco Ermenkov concerning the closure of a store in the village of Topolchane, Sliven Municipality in Dayna on the second round of elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies ministers! My question is to the Minister of Agriculture Mrs. Taneva. Madam Minister, your commitment to Sliven is understandable as a regional coordinator of GERB for there and as your homeland. I also admire your political activity, and in this regard I have no intention of speculating with data and information that we have received for meetings that you have held as a minister, but with party focus and suggestion. I would not like to comment on the extent to which in this activity and in these visits and these meetings you have fulfilled or violated the promise made by the Prime Minister that the ministers will not be included in the election campaign. However, I have only one simple, simple question for you, and it is this: what was the reason exactly on the day the second round of the elections was held for Mayor of the Municipality of Topolcane, which is also your birthplace, your entrusted Food Safety Agency to close down the grocery store? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u181	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u182	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I'm glad you remembered the names of the villages in our municipality. [[Noise and lines BSR LB.]] On 1 November 2015 at 10.30 p.m., a call was made to the director of the Regional Directorate for Food Safety, Sliven, for food trade in two unregistered sites located in the village of Topolchane, Roma neighborhood, Sliven municipality. The Director has ordered an immediate assembly of a committee to carry out an on-the-spot check and verify the reliability of the alert submitted. The Commission, which shall carry out an inspection of the sites indicated in the alert, shall be composed of the Head of Food Affairs and two inspectors. The first site is a mixed store for grocery and non-food goods, located in the Roma neighborhood in the village of Topolchane. The same is managed by a single limited liability company. It has been established that the object is registered in accordance with the order of art. 12 of the Food Act. At the same site, official controls establish the presence of nearly 25 kilograms of food that are not accompanied by the relevant documents. The second site you claim to be closed is also located in the Roma neighborhood in the village of Topolchane and is managed by a sole trader. In the verification carried out it was found that the establishment is offered for sale food without being registered under art. 12 of the Food Act. Foods without commercial documents are also present. The relevant acts have been issued for the non-compliance found. Official control has not issued an order to stop the operation of the site for the simple reason that it has not issued and decided to put it into service. He's not a legitimate object. The Food Act aims to ensure the implementation of European Community legislation in the field of food and their safety at national level. According to the same, competent authorities are entitled to free access to all food production and trade sites and to take the necessary measures to prohibit the sale of food or to order their withdrawal from the market where there are reasons and established facts to do so, as is the case. Official control is required to take the necessary action to ensure food safety and compliance with legislation, no matter what days this is done.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u183	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Come in for a cue, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u184	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, you will make me regret not speculating on what I said I wouldn't speculate. Your answer would have been extremely comprehensive and accurate if you had answered the question: what was the reason for closing a grocery store? The question, however, was: what was the reason exactly on the day of the run-off to close down a grocery store and, notice, the man in which twelve policemen broke into his house last night to search if there was money and lists? By the way, he is our activist, head of our youth organization in the village and was subjected, first of all, to police racketeering and pressure, and now Can you explain to me how many of the cases of the closing of stores the action is personally led by the Director of the Regional Food Directorate? Madam Minister, I understand that you cannot betray the municipality of Sliven, which is your birthplace. I'm sure you'd also be held politically responsible for failing. You must have been shaking all week after the first round was less than 1%. However, this is not the way to win elections. I agree that it is not the only reason for Mr. Milev to lose the elections, but still the state machine should not be used as a bat and a steam hammer against our voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u185	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Here you are, Madam Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u186	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, first of all, I didn't even know that the action in your words was run by the director of the District Directorate. You can check it out. It doesn't matter, it's the principle. You mentioned it yourself, I wouldn't say that the person who sells food without the registered establishment and food without origins inside, in the Roma neighborhood, in the largest village in Sliven municipality, is your secretary of the youth union or organization of BSP... [[Replications from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Georgi Bozhinov.]] Because I do not believe that we should encourage any activities carried out outside the law of persons who are political leaders. Is this how we're gonna raise society to work out of the law?! I don't understand! [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u187	Please be quiet in this Chamber, Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u188	Furthermore, I can tell you that the difference of the ballet in which the candidate from GERB won was 3500 votes, provided that in all Roma neighborhoods you won close by two or three times the difference. Even if that hadn't happened, it didn't affect the outcome in any way. The most important thing I would recommend to all political leaders is: political leadership, members cannot be protected by the state and set an example when working illegally. There's no hidden object because one hasn't been detected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u189	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. Have a good job and have a good day! We are going to answer a question to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. She will answer a question from the National Representative Manol Genov regarding the implementation of rehabilitation procedures 20 km away from Popovitsa Mr. Genov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u190	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! We are just days away from official entry into winter conditions on the country's roads. An undisputed fact is the critical state of transport arteries, and the policy being conducted to oppose highways against second-class roads is frankly discriminatory. In this situation, the risk to the security of travelers across the country in dangerous conditions of the Republican road network is more than obvious. Exactly one year ago, I alerted myself to the disparity of the state of parts of the republican routes around the country in the dangerous conditions of the Republican road network. A year ago, I alerted him about it. I want to introduce everyone. It is known for the whole country how one of the proven heart attack transport connections, which have become tragically famous for the past five years, is the 20km Popovitsa route. The road is the connection of Northeastern and Eastern Bulgaria to Smolyan and the winter resorts. His condition is officially at risk for movement of more than six years. The state's promise that the republican route will be included in a lott under the programme "Transit Roads V" proved to be a lasting illusion for years. Even social networks throughout the country abound with pictures and videos how exactly this time it falls, covered with almost 15 centimeter holes on it, described, of course, and technical experts from the court. Two years ago there was civil disobedience of the people of Sadovo Municipality, who blocked the road. At the beginning of 2013 the Ministry of Regional Development committed to include the section as part of Lot 15A of the Programme "Transit Roads V". With the rehabilitation of the area, a whole new bridge facility had to be built at km 0+189, to build new waterfalls and to perform a reconstruction of the drainage channels and thus restore the normal operating qualities of the road. The current information from a few days ago is that in a completely opposite direction things are moving. My information says that the road will be repaired, but not by this procedure, but as part of the maintenance of the route. Thus, some of the serious commitments of the project are dropped. In relation to the above, I ask for an answer: what are the reasons for abandoning the previously approved project, are there any arguments for the final suspension of the contractor and supervision procedure of the site a year ago? Who is responsible for the latest version of the upcoming renovation and what technical activities will be carried out under the project? Does the structure, I mean the Roads Agency, with up-to-date expertise on the state of this route, and what is the reason for the renovation activities to start just a few days before the calendar end of the repair activities, which we know are traditionally on 15 November? What will be the repair schedule when it is known that the segment will be closed for two years?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u191	Mr. Genov, thank you. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u192	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Genov! I'll try very briefly to give a flashback on what we're planning, but I'd say I should start with maybe the most important thing. I want to reassure everyone who lives and uses this extremely busy, important road section, a stretch really in a very bad condition that repairs will be made and all technical characteristics of the road will be restored so that it can be used safely and safely, I hope, by all its users. If we turn back time, during parliamentary control, I answered your question in February 2013, and I told you that our wish is to include this time as an additional new site within the framework of the transit programme. That was our offer, too. Unfortunately, however, there was not enough resources available in the program to include additional sites. That is also the answer you received to the same question from the Minister of Regional Development. However, we subsequently know of a public procurement procedure, even though the condition is not met at the date of its announcement, namely the provision of additional financial resources under the transit programme. This is also the reason why the Roads Agency will terminate the announced procedure, as it is of an indicative value of 15 million. lv. for carrying out construction and construction works the amount that is not available today in the budget of the Road Agency under this programme, as this is a loan from the European Investment Bank and for which a loan, you know that we are obliged to obtain the consent of the Ministry of Finance to spend funds under this Loan Agreement. However, this did not stop us because, as I pointed out at the outset, we are aware of the very bad condition of the road and that there is very serious traffic in this road direction and we need to ensure normal traffic. This was the reason why we bet on the budget of the Agency Roads with funds from the state budget investment of 8 million. lv. on the line of the budget line "Preventive repair" and assigning the repair of this road with a new, innovative, quite good technology, namely the technology of cold recycling, through which we, you know, machines that use existing pavement, reverse it. In this way, the base and the base, which is laid by cold recycling machines, are placed asphalt concrete in two layers of 6 and 4 cm. All this will enable us to have the entire 18 km stretch fully rehabilitated, fully repaired with this new and innovative cold recycling technology. And not only that, as an addition, along with this, we are assigning repairs to the bridge facility. I want to calm you down right now. I suppose you could say why it's not a new bridge? We have no funding for a new bridge, but we will do something with which the bridge will be strengthened, constructively sustainable and expanded. We will completely remove the sails of the bridge, a new, expanded base will be made to extend the road and the facility itself as meters, a new insulation will be placed and asphalted, of course, will be placed, the protective boards, so that we can ensure a good unconflict passage and the bridge facility at Popovitsa village and thus have a good finished project. You weren't correct in your statement that we wouldn't do the drainage and trenches. They are also assigned and are also provided for. The time limits that we have set for the performer by the end of the year, I hope there will be no bad winter conditions, the Plovdiv region is one in which we do not have severe winter conditions, by the end of the year the contractor will be able to carry out these activities, and I hope that the asphalt activities along the 18km section itself will be completed by the beginning of December and by the end of December they will be able to make the trenches, the drainages and start working on the bridge facility. Most likely the bridge won't be able to get up this year. And it will be able to be done in the next, but not as you said, two years, but in the spring of next year. The technological deadlines allow it to be completed. Why did we only assign it to him now in October? We put it in place because this time it was an extremely important route through which inert trucks and trucks that were also working on the repairs of "Trakiya" but most importantly the trucks and machines that were working to deliver materials for the completion of Maritsa Motorway. After its completion we will close entirely for movement this time because we are talking about complete repair, and will organize bypass routes and routes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u193	Thank you, Madam Secretary. For the doppelganger, Mr. Genov, within two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister Pavlova, thank you for your answer. But do you realize that it seems a little naive to you that we will be finished by the end of December?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u195	I'll try.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u196	Eight million, you say. As I recall, the procedure that was played was for 6.9 million with a new road facility.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u197	Fifteen.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u198	Fifteen? Indicative game of procedure "6.9." Look at the Agency's website, I checked it out last year. It's been a while since the election. I was really enjoying a video of us traveling on a freeway. It belonged to your party, of course, and advertised the successes of the new highways. I'm offering you a project for a new video. When we finish this time, I hope you're not ashamed to include it in the new election video, because the plot won't be easy. I don't want to be a pessimist, but I'm guessing the result of the repairs. The route in question is indeed in a desperate state, as you said, I will not go into detail. Here I'll give you some pictures to see how much the level of the road rises in the settlements. The sidewalks are not foreseen in this repair, how much did I understand, and remain...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u199	They're meant to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u200	It would be a joy if they were planned. In the settlements there are the so-called "Endecs" in the "watery ditches" where the water drains, because, if you don't remember, I remember, four years ago there was a flood that flooded several villages with intense snow melting in the spring, as the snow cover was really very large. But it was precisely because the water was able to pass through the watercourses on this road that thousands of acres of land were flooded, and I am not talking about the houses and people who suffered as a result of this flood. I hope that the optimism will really be more than the naiveness in the answer you gave me, but I will ask constantly what happens and hopefully the deadlines you said, and that you also like ribbons to cut, to invite me to the ribbon, because I have prompted you to make this segment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-13.u201	Thank you, Mr. Genov. A hole, Madam Secretary? You don't want to. This was the last question provided for in today's parliamentary control. Thank you for your participation, Madam Secretary. The next regular plenary session shall be on 18 November 2015, Wednesday, 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
