ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, according to our decision on purpose, today we are holding an extraordinary plenary session with a single point: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR DELEGATION AND ADVISION OF THE LAW FOR HEALTH RESPONSIBILITY. Importer is the Council of Ministers. In the plenary sitting on 4 June 2015, we started the second vote. Paragraphs 1 to 3 including have been adopted. The second vote is reported § 4 and the proposals to it. We started with debates that haven't been completed. A statement from the Minister of Health has been heard. We are now continuing the debate on § 4. Only one Member of the National Assembly spoke on this paragraph. said by Dimitar Bajraktarov. Are there any other Members of Parliament who wish to take part in this paragraph? Here you go, Mr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u2	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues, Mr Minister! I had no intention of speaking under § 4 because the President of the Health Committee at the previous meeting said that there was an agreement with the applicant at this stage not to change the composition of the members of the Supervisory Board. However, there have been speeches in the opposite sense, so I will make my arguments for maintaining the current composition of the Supervisory Board of the NHIF. First of all, the current composition with 9 members turned out to be quite difficult to collect and manage. Even the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for this year was adopted with 4 attendees and 1 on the phone, something that I think is on the border of the Law. By creating a new Supervisory Board with 11 people, I think it will be more ineffective than it is now. I agree that it is not effective yet, but let us give the new Supervisory Board a deadline to see how it works. The second argument is that it is proposed to increase the quota of the State. I find it difficult to explain on the condition that the state is the most irregular payer to the NHIF. It pays 50% of the minimum contribution, and from next year it will start paying 5% more. The third argument I draw from a statement by representatives of trade unions and employers' organisations, who said that when the country's quota increases and the state quota becomes majority, they will withdraw their participation in the Casa Supervisory Board. Then it will become a state structure from a public organization. If it becomes a state structure, then there will be no Health Insurance Act, because it will not be insurance, but a health tax. If there is a health tax, this whole Law is meaningless because it is a health insurance law. I therefore call on my fellow Members not to increase the number of members of the Supervisory Board, to maintain the status quo by taking measures to make this body more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u3	Thank you, Mr. Kuchukov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Kuchukov, in fact, you yourself have confirmed that the so-called "Hostless Council" which is established under the Insurance Act is a parasitizing body which, notice, honourable Members, cannot in any way be controlled by the National Assembly. Secondly, as we can see, in the formula now in force, I will make a statement.. We do not change the composition, but the number, in order to be able with the prevailing state quota, first of all, that body to work, and second of all, to be controlled. Dear colleagues and honourable Mr. Kuchukov, here we, the MPs, choose the manager of the Health Insurance Fund, but practically through the Law he appears, with an excuse, a figure which is entirely subject to this parasitic body called the Supervisory Board. Right now you want to convince me that because someone was going to get out of this Council, we shouldn't change his work and be able to control it, most importantly! Because this Council actually votes and determines the budget for spending the Health Insurance Fund, not the manager that we choose here. So if we have to put in a new bill to cancel the existence of this parasitic organ, it's not a problem. We will, but it is better for the state to have a dominant quota and finally to start working, and something more, as foreseen in the following texts, to have constant public supervision by publishing the stenograms of this Supervisory Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u5	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Bayraktarov, I wouldn't use a parasitizing body for the Supervisory Board. But if I use your rhetoric that's a parasitic organ, I wonder why we need two more parasites to hire?! It doesn't make sense. Furthermore, I would like to tell you that it is not the Supervisory Board that accepts the Cassata budget, but the National Assembly that accepts the Casa's budget, so I cannot accept this argument.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u7	Thank you, Mr. Kuchukov. Mr. Ademov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of our Rules of Procedure I am making a procedural proposal that the period for proposals between the first and second reading of the adopted general bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Labour Code should be reduced to five days.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u9	A counteroffer? I won't. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by Mr. Ademov to shorten the deadline for proposals between first and second readings on the draft general bill for amendment of the Labour Code. Vote 134 MPs: 117, against 4, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. To speak, Mr. Raynov has the word.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Firstly, I applaud what I said two weeks ago in the proposal of this member Dr Daritkova, President of the Commission, said that he was in favour of not increasing the quota. Of course, it's our offer, so we admire it. Things would remain so far, only then there were statements that the Ministry continued to claim that it should not leave the situation that the state quota should be increased. We would have passed this somehow, but in the context of what happened last week, the changes to the Law on Medical Institutions, how they would commit themselves to privatization hospitals that would likely be bankrupt, not concluding contracts, I think this is even more ambitious. Honourable Members, our proposal is to remain the same composition of the Cashier's Supervisory Board. I hope you'll back us up. As for the fact that, you see, the Cassata, Oversight continues to be irrational, I cannot believe that with three deputy ministers, who, although not elected by parliament, but designated by the Minister and adopted by a decision of the Council of Ministers, the Casa is irrationally managed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u11	- What's the line? I won't. The word wants Minister Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think we closed this discussion in a reasonable way in the past, but obviously, once again, we need to say some things. The idea that lies at the moment in the speeches of some of the opposition MPs and not only is that somehow the good wins and everything else. I just heard that there was good faith in the supervision of the cassa to keep everything the way it is so far, because it was good. This means that BSP is behind the supervision of the Cashier to have a regular representative of the pharmaceutical industry that sells the same casa medicines under conditions that the supervision of the Cashier approves. From my point of view and from the point of view of common sense, that is unacceptable. I have heard what Assoc said about the possibility of making decisions. Kuchukov, ladies and gentlemen, the state is you. The state is not something imaginary that stands somewhere. If you want your will, the will of the state to be introduced into the policy of the Cashier, then you should be able to provide this Casa with the opportunity to conduct your decisions. Not mine, yours. If anyone has any doubt, even though there is talk of deputy ministers and so on, my proposal is if there are any doubts that... Okay, at this point, let the situation in the supervision of the Cashier remain such, but this must also be made to endure a change in the form of how the Cashier is managed with the Supervisory Board, and in the way the decisions are made. I ask that the President of the Board be invited to a meeting of the Health Committee to explain whether there is a possibility to take decisions to confirm the budget voted by the Parliament, the parameters signed in the Framework Treaty and then subject to a government decree and so on. I mean, I'm really asking you to close this debate like this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u13	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Kardzhaliev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I thought that the decision which the Committee on Health took, namely not to adopt the text concerning the practical holding of the Supervisory Board of the Health Insurance Fund, because the Commission adopted it in this way and in this House will not be debated, this text of the importer will be dismissed. However, what the Minister said, and especially what some of the negotiators have said, are asking me again, as the Health Committee, to point out our arguments, which are why we believe this text is inappropriate and incorrect. What exactly do I mean? The increase of the Supervisory Board of the Health Insurance Fund with two more members from the state has a name, this act is, in our opinion, called nationalization. This is to the detriment of the original ideas, 15 years ago, the creation of the health insurance model. I recall that the National Health Insurance Fund is a public institution, true, with the participation of the state. There should be a correlation between all countries, namely a balanced, correct attitude between state representatives, representatives of employers of the respective guilds and not least the trade unions. Let us not forget that in the budget over 2 billion of healthcare revenues are from employers, and only 980 million are the contributions that come from the state. In our view, the change proposed by the importer will disrupt the balance between the parties. At least as a hypothesis we can discuss the option that the state can unceremoniously and unilaterally, notice, manage both priorities and policies, and also lv. They were held for two years. Such types of decisions, if not to predispose, at least create conditions for this particular type of vicious practice. Once again, this is a bad, denied practice and in itself this idea makes no sense to the existence of the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) and its Supervisory Board. I can think of a proposal from the Bulgarian Medical Union. They even propose that the composition be reduced to five members and that this body remain as a control board. There is also a reason in this idea, especially from a pragmatic point of view. As a finale of my considerations, I would also like to say another practice, and not only in the field of health, has proven that when the state has an inadequate, impossible position, this is usually detrimental to any sphere, but especially to healthcare. Here we see the state's experience, the government, respectively, of the Minister of Health to have greater functions than this health insurance model gives it. Further on, especially in the new Law on Medical Institutions, we see other ideas. We, as opposition and as people who have been interested for a long time, trying and thoroughly reading, will also oppose these ideas. We opposed the idea of the content of the main and additional packages under Regulation No 40, which passed in the previous meeting. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There, indeed and so far, the minister has determined, but from now on, this is a route for thousands of sick and resources of hundreds of doctors.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u15	Mr. Kardzhaliev, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u16	Both his proposal and this, we consider inappropriate and we will not support him. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u17	Thank you, Mr. Kardzhaliev. First line? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am really forced to take lines because the people's representation is being tried to be misled and I will still have to remind my fellow Members that in this paragraph in the vote the Commission had an eight-to-eight vote money. It's just by some coincidence at this point, there were two colleagues who had gone to the bathroom, which is normal in many hours of debate. However, since Mr. Kardzhaliev's five-minute speech didn't make any sense, I will do the replica of what you should know. In fact, the debate on this paragraph came to a unanimous agreement that money in the Health Insurance Fund has been growing for years. Its budget is constantly updated and financed each year, notice from whom, from the incorrect state. Last year the budget was financed by about 500 million, if you remember, it was updated twice. The second moment, everyone admitted that in this model only in the last few years the budget of the Health Insurance Fund has risen five times. Particularly worrying is the moment that there is an incredible battle for the distribution of money in hospital care where the so-called "supervisory council" is of particular interest. Notice, today you are offered to support to stay: - first of all, the draining of the Health Insurance Fund; - maintain the positions of the status quo, which only cares about how to drain the Health Insurance Fund and finally of the year to say: "Excuse me, but we will have to finance and update the Casa budget by another 500 million. By the way, during these debates, personally, the Chairman... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating. The Chairman of the Medical Association told me that this really is a parasitic organ that, notice, no one can hold him accountable. These are non-governmental organizations, unions that you don't even know who they are. State officials don't have any votes. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u19	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. For the second line, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u20	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The most important thing that we should probably understand today when we are debating this Bill is that it is not a political tribune from here and to express any political opinions, but to understand that this Law also regulates the responsibility of the executive in the face of the government and, in particular, of the Minister of Health, which will thus have the clear control of finances and the strategy to be implemented in healthcare. I have heard that there are various proposals that have been mentioned just now, such as ideas on how the National Health Insurance Fund should be structured. There is such an idea to bring together a working group that really changes the structure, powers, labour relations and so on, which, of course, should not only think politically, but as a basic strategy how to change things in health care. We are prone to a complete change, of course, in the structure and in the management of the Health Insurance Fund, because the fact that the debates so far make us fall into some kind of conflict between us is sufficient proof that we really need to work seriously and in the future to change the structure of the National Health Insurance Fund. I simply appeal today to work a little more constructively, with less political speeches and more pragmatism, so that we can really start the reform of health, because health is for everyone, and we should not share it in Bulgarians, Turks, Armenians, Gypsies and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u21	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Third line? You're giving up. Here you go, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Shishkov, you don't really contradict me. Perhaps further on, when talking in principle about the evolution of the health insurance model, perhaps in a broader format, these topics should be discussed. However, the model is vicious or at least those 15 years in which it exists, and these are our concerns. Remember, the health insurance model was borrowed from the Bismarck model, then there was a certain standstill. The two thousand and thirteenth year details of the health insurance model have been introduced from which the United States has been fleeing for 20-25 years, and now we, by means of one such act, are trying to nationalize and restore the system again. But this is perhaps a debate about subsequent debates. With regard to Mr. Bajraktarov, I would say: you also do not contradict me, Mr. Bajraktarov. However, it is an illusion that the ruling majority is behind this idea. As far as information is concerned, in the age of information technology there are two types of ignorant ones, one is self-satisfied ignorant, the other are reading. I'm trying to be second type. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u23	Thank you, Mr. Kardzhaliev. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u24	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Strategies, models, doctrines, Semashko, Bismarck... All this kind of theoretically maybe in universities is a good discussion. Here our common task is to answer a simple question. Yesterday, because I had a urologist on my arm, Assoc. Shishkov, I asked him the following question: why is an operation in urology a very common one worth £1,200?? There is no answer from this person who does this surgery every day. If there is anyone here who can answer that question, I will be infinitely happy. I mean, what do we pay with £1,200?? Does that guarantee the treatment? Why is that amount fixed? Why is it another disease and not another disease? These are decisions that the operational management of the Casa should propose to the Supervisory Board, it will agree with them, after which the Council of Ministers in the case by law is simply a bearer of the will of the arrangement between the Supervisory Board and the Medical Union. I mean, aside from the wonderful stories about Bismarck and Semashko, until there is no answer to the question why this operation is worth £1,200, please don't tell me you're protecting the good management of public money.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u25	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Turnover, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! This debate has been going on for a long time in the Commission, and it goes on here, but I am infinitely surprised by the new things I hear, and by the minister. Mr. Minister, it is not Dr. Shishkov who will answer this question! To this question you have to answer why this operation is so. You must answer the people you have confirmed and sent to this Board of Directors of the Cashier! We absolutely cannot support this proposal from importers. This proposal disrupts the balance between the representatives in this body. In recent years, around 67% of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund is at the expense of the insurers and only 33 is the transfer from the state. That is, once again, the person who pays the most wants to rule and determine. Well, that's not gonna happen, Minister! If this body is parasitizing, if you have other views on the composition, you should have suggested them. If there are pharmaceutical companies involved and there is a conflict of interest, then you shouldn't have signed and validated these people in the supervision of the Casa.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u27	Me?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u28	This is very important in the context of the overall philosophy of the Law, where further and in the other texts we will see that more and more responsibilities are involved in the management of the Casa and the governing bodies. It's not the Cashier who has to conduct health policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u29	Colleagues, please, quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u30	The National Health Insurance Fund is a paying body and its functions are related to this. What is important is the principle and the principle issue on the basis of which the National Health Insurance Fund was created, and this is the triparty principle. This triparty principle is not a Bulgarian invention, it is a global international standard. So the change proposed with regard to this principle and with regard to this authority will actually compromise the principle on which it is based. After these changes, if they are adopted, the state balance will disappear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u31	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. - What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Shishkov. Dr. Ademov, then Maya Manolova, I alternate groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u32	I've heard two things: that for 15 years everything is perfect, and that's why we're not going to change it, so it has to stay the same way. This is probably how reform is being done. We are not changing anything, we are accusing the minister of appointing. I didn't know the Minister was hiring someone from the National Health Fund? We want him to have some responsibility, and at the same time, we do not give him that responsibility or we do not give him the responsibility of the state to assume that responsibility. Right now, who knows what the money is and who distributes it in the Cashier? A blur of irresponsibility. Now, in this way and with this sequel we will know who the minister is responsible for. And the next time he sins, he will stand before us and tell us why the money is distributed in this way.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u33	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u34	It's absolutely true!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u35	No dialogue, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u36	You provoked me. Let's know who's in charge of everything.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u37	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Anyone for a second line? Here you go, Dr. Raynov. The BSP group is very active with speeches, there are always hands there...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Mr. Turnovaliski, just a slight correction of what you said: not all of them confirmed them Minister Moskov, but he confirmed exactly his two deputy ministers to be present in the supervision of the Casa, which is small but enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u39	Thank you, Mr. Raynov. Another line? Here you go, Mr. Turnovalysky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Thank you, Dr. Raynov. In the end, without the Minister's sanction, there is no way the other appointments will happen, but here I would like to say something else. I can't agree with Dr. Shishkov, my respects to him. Dr. Shishkov, if an increase in the composition of the number in a Supervisory Board is reform, then I congratulate you on the reforms you will make.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u41	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Mr. Bayraktarov, come in for a procedure and then Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I see that nothing new is being said, these are clear: let us vote to continue the Cassata's accuracy, the other thesis is against the draining of the Cassate, so I propose that we end the debate on § 4 and move on to the vote, finally see who supports the status quo and who supports the Bulgarian citizens! There's nothing left to hang out about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u43	Thank you. A reverse opinion? Here you go. [[Noise lines from GERB.]] Back-up position! I ask for a reverse opinion of Bayraktarov's proposal for termination.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I cannot understand why the National Assembly does not want to hear the arguments not only of the opposition, but also of GERB, because colleagues from GERB also disagree with this proposal. Therefore, please vote against Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal, because, colleagues, you will see in the following texts something that contradicts what is being adopted at the moment. To this body, the Supervisory Board of the Health Insurance Fund, which was called redundant [[GERB noise and lines]] , parasitic organ, in the following texts are awarded...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u45	Reverse procedure, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u46	... extremely serious...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u47	Thank you, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u48	What do you want?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u49	Reverse procedure. You said you should vote against Bayraktarov's proposal. I'll put the motion to the vote. Voting regime, Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal to end the debate under § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u50	Why are you taking my word away? I have to motivate him! How are you going to take my word for it?! You have no right!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u51	140 MPs voted: 96, against 40, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov § 4 to drop out. Proposal by the National Representative Emil Raynov and a group of Members of the National Assembly shall be dismissed. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 4. Proposal for a Commission vote Vote 136 MPs: 110, against 24, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. It's a re-vote. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, I demand a re-voting because there were colleagues who could not understand that they have now become accomplices to the status quo for draining the National Health Insurance Fund, they have become accomplices to the inability of the Bulgarian patient to receive adequate treatment. I cannot believe that one of the colleagues from GERB supported this vicious model, acting for many years. [[Relations from DPS and BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u53	Mr. Bayraktarov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u54	I'm asking for a re-vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u55	It's a rethink mode. [[The speaker's talking away from the microphones.]] Please, Mr. Bayraktarov. They voted 136 MPs: 111, against 23, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u56	Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kyuchukov and a group of MPs for § 5: In Paragraph 5, paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: 1: to remove the modification of art. 15, para. 1, c. 12. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov: In § 5 to drop the item 1 of the importer, and in the existing text of t. 1 make the following amendment: After the word "coherence', the following shall be added to the list: The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative EMIL RAINOV and a group of MPs: In § 5 t. 1 is amended as follows: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 1. Point 12 is repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Shishkov and Valentin Pavlov: In § 5 t. 2 is amended as follows: ,2. point 13 is amended as follows: "13." approve the draft national agreement on reimbursing medicinal products under art. 45a, para. The following points are inserted after point 2 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u57	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Debate. Here you go, Dr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Just a moment ago, we were explaining how bad the Cassata was, how it was woven by lobbying interests, how the three deputy ministers couldn't do anything, and at some point with this article it was suggested that the Casa should adopt a decision to determine the list of diseases. For those who do not know, I specify the Minister, as conducting the national health policy, there are two levers with which he operates: one is to determine the main package of guarantees for payments from the National Health Insurance Fund, the other is to define precisely this list of diseases for whose home treatment the Casa pays. And at some point the minister, despite all his prejudice to the cassata, takes one of his main levers, and this is the definition of the list of diseases and gives it, hey likes it, in the cassata, where there are representatives, the speakers have spoken about what they are, what they are, how they are. The non-professional composition will determine the medical competence for which diseases the cassata will pay for the treatment. That's not very serious, to say the least. Someone here said that the Minister must bear all the responsibility. We want to support the minister here in carrying his responsibility, and we want this proposal to be dropped. Let this lever still remain in the hands of the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u59	Thank you, Dr. Raynov. Second line? I won't. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! In this text we propose to drop point one of the importer. In the existing text of point one, the following amendment shall be made: after the word It is for the approval of volumes and prices to be determined in accordance with the national framework contract. And since you had serious doubts before, Mr. Minister, that there is no one in this Chamber who knows why the price of this clinical path is just how much leva you are, I will tell you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u61	Do you know?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u62	I know.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u63	Please, no dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u64	Because this is determined by the methodology of the Supervisory Board, which was determined by the Supreme Administrative Court. Your methodology has been determined by the Administrative Court, not ours, Mr. Minister, so don't get too excited. However, I will read you texts from several laws that contradict this text. Dear Mr. Chairman, in art. 3 of the Health Act is said: state health policy, Dr. Raynov, is determined not by the Minister, but by the Council of Ministers. Moreover, in the Law on Drugs and pharmacies in Human Medicine in art. 14, para. 1 is said: The medical policy is part of the state health policy in the Republic of Bulgaria and is implemented by the Minister of Health. What is available in this text? This text proposes the treatment of the diseases for which the National Health Insurance Fund pays according to the criteria laid down by the Minister of Health's Ordinance, to be determined by this Supervision, which you just called a non-professional and unnecessary body. Could one such authority, which you have just described as a........excessive, unprofessional................................................................................. To determine the list of diseases the National Health Insurance Fund pays for. This is an escape from the Minister of Health's responsibility, put in a straight text! Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the House, support our proposal, because in it the contractual beginning is what is at the heart of the determination of volumes and prices, and not the notorious regulations and methodologies that we are talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u65	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. A line? Here you go, Dr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, Mr. Secretary! Dr. Ademov, thank you for the correction. You're absolutely right. The policy is determined by the Council of Ministers, but it still seems to me that the Minister is part of this Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u67	Thank you, Dr. Raynov. Mr. Shishkov, come in, line two.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u68	I do not know what methodology we are talking about when setting these prices, which we are now commenting on. I just can't figure out how a doctor in this country like cardio-invasive people can get $50,000. lv. salary per month, and another doctor who works three times as much as he does, for example as one abdominal or chest surgeon, takes 1200 or 1500 BGN. I don't know what this methodology is, and I don't know what the current minister has to do with everything that's been done in the last 15 or 20 years. I can't figure that out, but I guess he's got to take everything he's done in the old days. Why didn't you change it before then? No one knows. Why hasn't the methodologies changed? And now that we want to change exactly the methodologies and to have some principle in which to comply with the rules in these methodologies, it suddenly turns out that there is a serious opposition. I'm sure you know very well that this is not right, only the politics continues again.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u69	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Dr. Ademov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for the lines, but they do not change my understanding that the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund is a body that is structured according to the legislation in force, based on conventions of the International Labour Organisation. I understand that the Minister is above these things and does not recognise the fact that the National Health Insurance Fund is a collective body which decides on the basis of its powers under the Law. Dr. Shishkov, on your line that the Minister is not responsible for what has happened over the years, of course it is, but the methodology that has been cancelled by the Supreme Administrative Court has been adopted this year. As far as I know, Mr. Moskov, the Minister of Health is in charge this year. As far as I know, the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund is Deputy Minister of Finance, members of the Supervisory Board of this Casa are two Deputy Health Ministers. So the responsibility in any case lies with the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u71	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, is it necessary to listen to the same thing that people of the same political power say? When he becomes one person and speaks on behalf of the political power he represents in this Parliament, he thus expresses the position of political power. There is no point in saying the same thing twice, three times, four times by different people from the same political power. We were witnesses a few moments ago, we continued the debate on something that was debated some time ago in plenary. Now here with new power everyone began to speak again. Let's be a little more constructive and move forward. Once a position is stated, there is no point in specifying and speaking the same thing. Therefore, I propose that we end the debate on this text, which is now, and move on to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u73	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u74	A reverse opinion? Three. Raise your hand. Georgi Gyokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Dear Mr. Ivanov, some people need to be told the same thing many times to get inside their head. This one, first. [[Radio.]] Secondly, Mr. Ivanov, I didn't see much of the political forces speaking about it. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u76	Please no dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u77	In this way, you take away the opportunity and right of each Member of the National Assembly to give their views.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u78	What were you doing in the forty-two?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u79	I'm not talking to you from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u80	Please! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u81	It is simply not acceptable at any point and at any discussion of each paragraph to interrupt the speeches after the first or second speech. At least let 5-6 people speak, form an opinion in people who have not formed it so far, people who are not members of the Health Commission, know how to vote. Because now you see what this is about. I do not see the opposition presently present in this House as necessary. If you're going to accept the Law only you and interrupt the speeches, let's go home, vote it out and make it easier for you. At least let's not waste time. [[GERB lines: "Come on, come on! "]] If you want to hear the opposition's arguments, to hear what the MPs think about such a very important issue as the Health Insurance Act, stop doing these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u82	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Stanislav Ivanov's proposal is a procedure to end the debate under § 5. I put to the vote the motion to end the debate under § 5. Vote 127 MPs: 77, against 43, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Mr. Bayraktarov, if you'd like to make a proposal for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like a re-vote, for the simple reason that many people did not understand at all that it was the debate of § 5 and, more precisely, art. 15 shows how the robbery of the Health Insurance Fund will now take place. It is therefore inconclusive to end the debate on this so important article. It's untenable! Let it be seen, let the Bulgarian people know how, how you robbed him just now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u84	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. It's a re-vote. Vote 128 MPs: 71, against 46, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. First, we vote on the proposal of MP Georgi Kuchukov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 134 MPs: 48 against 41, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u85	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I'm not sure I was able to vote from the console. I don't get it. That's why I want a re-vote. Once again, let me draw your attention to the importance of the problem that we have not been able to discuss. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Now we will continue with other procedural moves so that we can speak our minds, so from now on I warn you... about the following members do not do it what you do so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u86	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. We are revising the proposal of the MP Georgi Kyuchukov and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 5, paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: 1: to remove the modification of art. 15, para. 1, c. 12. It's not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 128 MPs: 49, against 36, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov: In § 5 to drop the item 1 of the importer and in the corresponding text of t. 1 to make the following amendment: the following is added after the word The Commission does not support the proposal. Voting mode. They voted 129 MPs: 46, against 50, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. Here you are, with a proposal for a re-voting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I am making a procedural proposal to re-vote, as most colleagues could not vote, it was a very short time, and there were those who were currently entering. I'd like to pay attention. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u88	Mr. Ivanov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u89	Colleagues, this is a very important text. This is a very important text! And let each MP be aware of his own conscience what he votes for. [[GERB lines.]] I'm fully aware of that. Your colleagues told you: don't rob the people! This is what you want to do with this paragraph and with these amendments you are robbing the people.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u90	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Revoting the proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov, not supported by the Commission. Voting mode. Are there any MPs who didn't vote? I won't. Abort the vote and announce the result. They voted 130 MPs: 48, against 58, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal we are voting on is a proposal by the MP Emil Raynov and a group of MPs: In § 5 t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." Point 12 is repealed The Commission does not support the proposal. Voting mode. They voted 127 MPs: 45, against 55, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Ivanov's procedure, first, and then the word wants Mr. Tasco Ermenkov. To re-vote, Mr. Ermenkov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since there is movement in the room, I propose a re-vote procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u92	Mr. Ermenkov, your proposal coincides with Mr. Ivanov's. [[Radio.]] Voting mode. They voted 132 MPs: for 48, against 57, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. Proposal from the MPs Dimitar Shishkov and Valentin Pavlov: In § 5 t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." point 13 is amended as follows: "13." Approves the National Agreement for the Reimbursement of Medicinal Products under art. 45a, para. The following points are inserted after point 2 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: The Commission does not support the proposal. Voting mode. They voted 130 MPs: 47, against 47, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 5, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. Voting mode. Did everyone vote? Yeah. Abort the vote. They voted 132 MPs: for 91, against 40, abstention 1. The proposal has been Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u93	Since I see that BSP colleagues have a systematic difficulty expressing their vote through the meeting's electronic system, I ask for a re-voting procedure. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u94	That's what you wanted, Mr. Georgiev? Okay. It's a rethink mode. We are voting on the Commission's proposal.... the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission supports this text. Voting mode. They voted 133 MPs: for 93, against 38, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] Three raise your hand to one of you for a negative vote. Please, tell me what it is. You can have a procedure. Here is Georgi Gokov for a negative vote. Second Mr. Ermenkov, third Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u95	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I voted against... [[Noise and lines: "There is no right to speak!" by GERB.]] Please! Please! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] I didn't say anything. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] I'll wait for them to check, see that I didn't speak by § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u96	Dr. Ivanov, he signed up, but he didn't speak. Both times he didn't get in line, so he's entitled to a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u97	I didn't speak under § 4, or under § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u98	Here you are, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I voted against it because I'm a little confused. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] A moment ago, when discussing § 4, Mr. Minister, you wanted powers for the state, respectively for yourself, to distribute the money to the Health Insurance Fund, and now, when you are guaranteed the powers, you withdraw from them. You want to make reforms, and you don't want to define health policy. That's weird.? I voted against it because, according to art. 14, para. 1 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine Drug policy is part of the state health policy in Bulgaria and is implemented by the Minister of Health. I voted against it because the definition of the list of diseases for which the Health Insurance Fund pays medicinal products, medical devices and diet foods for special medical purposes is part of the country's drug policy and, on this basis, the Minister of Health is the body that should determine this list by regulation and he refused. I voted against it because at the moment with this act, with this change in the Law, we are giving the Minister the opportunity to transfer, to delegate these powers, but at the same time his responsibility to the Health Insurance Fund, that is, the Minister is deprived of his constitutional obligation and transferred it to the Casata, relying on it to implement national health policy. I voted against it because the Health Insurance Fund was established under the Health Insurance Act and is a paying body that pays, controls and so on, but does not have the powers to conduct a policy, and the Supervisory Board is an operational body of management of an institution that works in the implementation of more principles established in law and does not form them. His work is mainly related to spending the collected health insurance contributions and public funds. I voted against it, Mr. Minister, so that you do not abdicate from your responsibilities. [[GERB noise and lines]] , moreover, putting this proposal into the Law [[GERB's loud noise and lines]] We deprive the next Minister of Health of the possibility of defining national health policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u100	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Second negative vote on the national representative Tasco Ermenkov. [[Reply from MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] Mr. Mihov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I voted against it because, sitting here discussing laws, we must be consistent in the decisions we make. After, in the sense of the Law, which was proposed before the previous paragraph was rejected at the request of the Commission, it was included that the Supervisory Board should be increased by 11 people, it is natural for the continuation of the Law now to have a transfer of power from the Minister to the Supervisory Board. However, on the condition that we rejected this increase, provided that we left the Supervisory Board as it is now, this transfer of responsibilities from the Minister to the Supervisory Board is no longer logical.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u102	Why?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u103	Not only is it not logical, it is harmful, because among other things, there are all the prerequisites for this Supervisory Board, which you have all called pointless, corrupt, some kind of appendage, to make decisions that will in no way be in the interests of healthcare. And if anyone has a systemic problem here because it has been mentioned by Dr Daritkova that they have a systemic problem with the vote, colleagues, a systemic problem you have of the government because you are not up and speaking about the issues that concern healthcare, because none of the Bulgarian citizens understand whether you support this reform or do not support it, do you support the minister, or are you silently blaming it. That's the problem. Please enter into unison and harmony with yourself, come out and express your thoughts on matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u104	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Third negative vote on the public representative Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I voted against it because I believe that with this text we continue to spill out health care. You're running away from responsibility, Minister. You're transferring competences that you have to carry. Then why are you a minister?! And secondly, isn't this another step towards turning health care into another huge market? Understand, under the Constitution, healthcare is the duty of the state and the right of every citizen. How do you guarantee that right? No way! You turn health into another commodity, and you will eventually deprive thousands and even hundreds of thousands of citizens of this country of health. That is why I am strongly opposed to you and please, Mr. Minister, do not run away from your responsibility.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u106	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u107	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Let us clarify, not for the MPs who have already voted, but for everyone who listens. It is not about the possibility of the Cassata determining the policy of what diseases and what medicines. This is what this is about, and it is clearly written in the Law, the Minister, the Council of Ministers, the government is actually defining the guidelines, defining the policies, defining the objectives. The actual payment authority "The Cashier" goes into detail on which particular drug, which disease and so on. It's technology that's really connected to the Cashier's operation. Otherwise, Mr. Chairman, I'm confused. In the course of two consecutive texts, it was first explained that the Cashier's Supervisory Board was something that should remain that way. I have now heard serious concerns from the same people that this Supervisory Board was some strange body that would make some bad decisions, which would lead to some market that had poor connotation, obviously, data. I can't figure out when exactly the same parliamentary group is telling the truth?! Secondly, when the previous text requires a higher power for the government, i.e. for the state, it is bad. The next text calls on the state to have higher powers. Come on, take a logic course, please, to make things go a little faster.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u108	Paragraph 6? a proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov: § 6 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Emil Raynov and a group of MPs: The following content shall be obtained: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16 the following amendments and additions are 1. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The decisions of the Supervisory Board shall be taken by a majority of two thirds of its members. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 1. The Commission supports the proposal on this. Two and three. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16 the following amendments and additions are 1. In para. 3 the figure 2. A new para is being created. 5. For the meetings of the Supervisory Board, full stenographic protocols shall be drawn up. The decisions of the Supervisory Board and the minutes of its meetings shall be published on the NHIF's website. Decisions shall be published at the latest on the day following the date of their taking, and the minutes shall be published within 7 days of the date of the meeting. 3. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u109	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! In connection with the vote on § 4 and the adoption of the composition of the Supervisory Board of the Casa in its current form, which is with four representatives of the state and five of the non-governmental sector, I am making an editorial proposal to drop the item. 1 in § 6, that is, to preserve the possibility of the Cashier in its current composition taking decisions in the current digital ratio so that we do not block the work of the Supervisory Board. I hope that the debates on this paragraph in the Commission have been long enough. We have also supported proposals to the opposition, which I hope will satisfy them and will support the Commission's final decision, which has been reached after long talks and is the result of a serious consensus.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Manolova has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u112	Honourable Members, Madam President! The proposals on this text are extremely important because they relate to the way the NHIF Supervisory Board will take its decisions. The proposal that we have made with colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria is not an accident. It was caused both by the constant practice of conduct of the Supervisory Board and by a scandalous case since the end of March 23rd March, when, in an illegal formation, the Supervisory Board of the Casata took a decision which any court would call void, namely the decision on the monthly distribution of the money to existing hospitals. If I have to read its full name: the Decision of the Supervisory Board of the NHIF to confirm the monthly distribution of the annual values of hospital medical care activities to the concluded contracts with hospitals for 2015. Why is this decision insignificant? Because it has been taken even in violation of the current text, which requires two thirds of the presence of the members of Oversight and at least five votes for the Board to be taken as a valid important decision in the order of those who distribute the money to hospitals throughout the year. What's going on in practice? As a result of the fact that the supervision of the Cashier allows it to sit down and make decisions in an illegal formation, at the moment this distribution of money to hospitals, the so-called "Limits" hangs in the air. The first hospital to attack this decision, including the money it has available for this year, will receive justice in court. It is clear and we are witnessing that Minister Moskov has serious problems with Bulgarian justice, especially because of his own stubbornness, because he imposes decisions that are against reason, against logic, which hinder the normal activities of hospitals and, above all, restrict the constitutional right of access of Bulgarian citizens to health care. What happened at the end of March? As a result of the scandal that first appeared this year with the formation of lists of patient waiting lists, especially for oncolleges and oncotherapy, the minister here, from this tribune, made a commitment that the decision on hospital limits, at least for oncology centres, for specialized oncology hospitals, will be changed. On several occasions, the Supervisory Board in question is sitting, but as a result, besides oral permission from the mouth of the Supervisory Board, we will then see, we will correct your limits and practically nothing else has happened. What happens now? Expensive, high-tech equipment in the oncology centers does not work, it is not loaded. People have no treatment because of the stubbornness of Minister Moskov. Yesterday I visited the Shumen Cancer Center, which is an example of how people in the Northeast have access to high-tech health care. You can't see that anywhere, for sure. I wanted to go and see the chaos that the minister claimed to reign in oncocenters and specialized hospitals to treat cancers. I was convinced that the chaos was in the head of the minister because in the oncology centers there are order and order, high technologies and highly specialized personnel who treat Bulgarians even from remote regions. I ask: as a result of the fact that the limits continue to exist and people cannot return cancer patients so that they die without medication and without treatment, what will happen in practice as a result of an illegal decision taken by the supervision of the Casa?! What I have advised and advised them from this tribune of the guides of all Bulgarian hospitals is to give illegally allocated limits to Minister Moskov and to the Supervision of the Court of Justice because they will not withstand any judicial procedure. When the Supervisory Board acts in an illegal formation, note, the representative of the state designated by Minister Moskov allows himself not to be present and to participate in this decision, it is clear that there is a problem here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u114	This problem must be corrected in the way we propose that the decisions be taken by a two-thirds majority, because they relate to people's lives and health.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u116	Please do not support Mrs Daritkova's proposal, because after the decision on the number composition of the Supervisory Board, it reiterates our decision and our decision to be voted at its individual posts, including the part that has not been adopted by the Health Commission and the part that is being supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u117	Thank you. I ask that you stick to the time in subsequent speeches. You have 40 seconds on top, Mrs. Manolova. Are there any lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u118	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! This speech has nothing to do with what we are voting on right now, which has been done here. Nothing! Not a single sentence has anything to do with what we have to vote on right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u119	Second line? I won't. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u120	Honourable Members, Madam President! Dear Dr. Shishkov, the text we are discussing regulates the way decisions are made in the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund. The text in force requires five votes to be taken in order to make a valid decision of Oversight. What we have proposed and what appears in the Commission's version is for a two-thirds majority to make decisions by the Health Insurance Fund Supervisory Board. What's not clear to you? Or are you uncomfortable with the way that Oversight, as designated by this Minister, or at least the representatives of the State in it, is involved in the discussion and decision-making of the Supervisory Board? Perhaps you are uncomfortable because of the deputy of Minister Moskov, who was not present in making this important decision, did not vote, his voice was taken over the phone...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u121	When you go into concrete examples, you go outside the debate. I understand that you are doing this to support your thesis, but it is clear enough in the report. Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsacheva. You understood the problem better than Dr. Shishkov, who should be in the topic. [[Radio.]] I ask: should it not be through legislative changes to put order in the work of the Supervisory Board, to raise the majority that makes such important decisions in order to have more responsibility than any member of Oversight? I myself was ready to support the minister in the previous texts with an increase in the representatives of the state in the Supervisory Board. However, when I see what people define and how irresponsible they are about making such important decisions and how the minister himself promises that he will correct the limits at least for cancer, how he then does not, how he twists the hands of these people just because of his own stubbornness... Dear Mr. Moskov, the chaos is not in the oncocenters, the chaos is in your head. If you go and see order and discipline and the tall one...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u122	Mrs. Manolova, you have a back-up to the MP, to the MP, to Dr. Shishkov. Leave the Minister alone! [[The National Representative Tsvetomir Mihov wants the floor for procedure.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u123	Wait for me to finish my three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u124	Your time's up a long time ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u125	Madam President, ask this MP to sit down, to calm down, unless he hastened to Minister Moskov to give him health care.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u126	Mrs. Manolova! Thirty seconds. Finish your sentence on the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u127	The text is extremely important and it refers to the way in which the most important decisions in healthcare will be made. In our opinion, a two-thirds majority is necessary in order to have more responsibility and more sense in the important decisions made by the Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u128	Mr. Mihov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u129	Thank you, Madam President. I have been provoked by the previous statement, so I propose a procedure to end the debate. We've had enough of this talk. At least get to class on what it's about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u130	A reverse opinion? Mr. Georgiev, back proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u131	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I understand the desire of colleagues on the right to have no debate on important issues for society, but I ask you very much, this is a Law that applies to every citizen. I am making a reverse procedural proposal, and I ask you, Madam President, that you no longer make such mistakes in holding the sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u132	Could you remind me of the error in holding the meeting, Mr. Georgiev? I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal to put an end to the debate. They voted 103 MPs: 69 against 26, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. Mr. Bajraktarov, re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u133	Thank you, Madam President. I want a re-vote because there were colleagues who couldn't vote. Moreover, a dangerous relapse against democracy is beginning to occur, so that there will be no debates on such an important bill. Colleagues, the fate of Bulgarian citizens and 3 billion cannot. 200 million. lv. With such ease to push them. There will be a debate, everything will be discussed properly, because people need to know what you voted on. You just robbed them with 500 million, so don't worry, you'll get used to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u134	It's a re-vote. Vote 113 MPs: 74 against 31, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov § 6 by importer to drop out. The Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 117 MPs: 28, against 61, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. The proposal of the MPs Emil Raynov and a group of MPs is supported by this. 2 and 3, times t. 1 The Commission does not support it. I put the proposal to a vote in the part where the Commission does not support it. They voted 120 MPs: 27, against 69, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. We come to the Commission's editorial proposal for § 6. Mrs Daritkova made an offer in the Chamber. 1 of the Commission's version to be dropped, and it is identical to the proposal of Mr. Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov. I put to the vote the proposal made in the Chamber by Mrs Daritkova in § 6, item 6. 1 with text: in para. 3 the figure Vote 126 MPs: 102, against 23, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Raynov. EMIL RAINOV (BSP LB): Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, negative vote. We are opposed to staying again five people, the five votes with which the decision of Oversight is made. We want to be six people, for the simple reason, to avoid what you are talking about, including the Minister said that the Casa is a nest of lobbying. The more people vote for the "six," in this case, the better it will be, the more transparent it will be in the context and the next point that you all approve. It will become clear to everyone how decisions are made, exactly who voted against it, who voted for it, so that the relevant organisations or the person who proposed them can keep them in mind why they voted for it. People are obliged to know how they voted in the Supervisory of the Cashier because there are 3 billion of our money allocated to all Bulgarian citizens. That is why I voted against dropping out and returning five people again. Yes, some will oppose that hard work will be done. On the contrary, there are problems where there is no dialogue. When there is a dialogue, when everyone is convinced, there will even be 9 votes for................................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u135	Thank you, Mr. Raynov. For the second negative vote, Mr. Bayraktarov. [[Noise and lines to the right and center at the bottom of the hall.]] Please don't say any lines! Mr. Bayraktarov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u136	Make a note of it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u137	I'm making a remark to those gentlemen and to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u138	You have nothing to do with me because my constitutional right is to ask for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u139	You're the only one who thinks so. You have the floor, give me your negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u140	It has just been acknowledged that the three billion and two hundred million leva are controlled and managed precisely by the Supervisory Board. That is precisely why, because with § 4 you voted for a practical update of the 500 million budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, I voted against it, because it was an instrument with which there really could still be some control over the work of this body, which none of you here has chosen. Even now, if I ask you, you won't know who the members of this Supervisory Board are. You won't even know what's most disturbing. Not to say that some gentlemen were trying to deceive, but they forgot that the ratio of insurance contributions is 60-40, and the vast majority of Bulgarian citizens are neither members of patient organizations, nor members of business organizations. I'm very interested in who represents me when I'm not a member of any of these organizations.! How? You think about it! Here, that's simple and simple logic. That is why I voted against.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u141	Thank you. Third negative vote, Mr. Turnovallisky. [[The National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov enters into dialogue with MPs at the bottom of the hall in the right and center.]] We're listening, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u142	Madam President, Mr Minister, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u143	Mr. Bajraktarov, take your seat and don't fight with the MPs. Please take your place! [[Noise and lines.]] We're listening, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u144	I take the floor for this negative vote to tell you that you should not try to silence the opposition. What there is and must be said will be said. There's no way when we talk about such important texts that concern each and every one of us, our loved ones, the people who sent us here, there's no debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u145	That's what you said. Stop it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u146	You want to vote on the law. There's no way! You're not gonna get us out of this room, and we're gonna say everything we're thinking about... a huge resource to distribute in the dark...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u147	Now, tell me why you voted against it, not in general about how the procedure is going.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u148	I voted against this House because attempts are being made to silence the opposition. [[Noise and disapproving lines to the right and center.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u149	We continue with the vote. After the drop of t. 1 in the version of Paragraph 6 of the Commission, p. 2 is going to be t. 1, t. 3 becomes t. 2 and we vote on the remaining text of the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 6 in two points already; on the creation of a new para. 5 and the previous al. 5 becomes para. 6. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. 120 MPs voted: 118, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Paragraph 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u150	According to § 7 there is a proposal of the MPs Krasimir Petrov and Ruslan Toshev Art. 19th para. 7 t. 15 is deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal of the MPs EMIL RAINOV and a group of MPs, which is generally supported by the Commission. Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Shishkov and Valentin Pavlov: The following amendments shall be made in § 7: (a) Point 4 is amended as follows: "4." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 16 the words......................................................................................................... 55, para. 2, p. 2s are replaced by a national agreement on reimbursing medicinal products under art. 45a, para. Those measures should be implemented in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). (b) To be created t. 5. It's five o'clock. Point 17 is repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative EMIL RAINOV, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 7 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A t is created. 4a: 4a. Announces monthly on the website of the National Health Insurance Fund the funds paid in the previous month for hospital medical care in hospitals, as well as for medical products by international non-proprietary name, medical devices and diet food for special medical purposes; 2. point 12 is amended as follows: ..12. propose for adoption by the Supervisory Board the list under art. 45, para. 4............................................................................................ 3. Point 13 is repealed. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 14 the words "insults and prices of medical assistance adopted in accordance with art. 55d, para. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 15 (2). 45, para. 4............................................................................................ 5. point 15 is amended as follows: ..15. examine the satisfaction of patients with medical activities related to the medical care paid by the NHIF; the order, method and criteria for examining patients' satisfaction are determined by a regulation of the Minister of Health; 6. Points 16 and 17 are repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Come in for a statement, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u152	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr Minister, my speech will support our proposal to announce on a monthly basis on the website of the Health Insurance Fund for the funds paid in the previous month. Our proposal under § 7 of the Bill is entirely in support of the policy applied by you, Mr. Minister, and the government for more transparency in general. In addition, the creation of this new point is in line with ensuring maximum transparency in the cost of the Cashier's funds under point (c). Art. 7, Art. 20 of the Public Finance Act. Transparency, by definition, of the provision cited in the Public Finance Act, is linked to the creation of an opportunity for public awareness by providing public access to information on macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts, to data on the ongoing implementation of the consolidated fiscal programme, as well as to the methodologies underlying them. That is, completely in the spirit of the supplement that we propose in § 7. So we propose to publish monthly on the website of the Health Fund the funds paid in the previous month for hospital medical care in hospitals, as well as for medical products by international non-proprietary name, medical devices and diet foods for special medical purposes. The aim of the text proposed by us is to ensure transparency and publicity when spending the funds collected from health insurance contributions, respectively the funds from the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. In this case, there is a public interest in the announcement of that information both for insured persons and for the healthcare providers themselves, respectively, for holders of a retail authorisation for medicinal products that have entered into a contract with the Health Insurance Fund. In order for there to be no speculation on the subject, I must say that this is not about revealing a trade secret. As soon as public resources are spent, society needs to know where the money is going. When a commercial enterprise has decided to enter into a contract with a public institution, there is nothing scary about the funds that the Casatta has paid being made public on the website of that institution, in the case of the Health Insurance Fund. Then there are dozens saved, not to mention hundreds of questions to the Minister, to the Cashier, suspicions and accusations of lobbying, corruption and so on. For the more weight of my words, I can add the provision of § 1, item 1. 5 of the Additional provisions of the Law on Access to Public Information, which states:.. do not constitute production or commercial secret facts, informations, decisions, data relating to business activity, which is in the interest of the entitled, but there is a dominant public interest in the disclosure. By binding this information to be made public, the Health Insurance Fund can indeed be entitled to be proud that it is a sufficiently transparent institution. And for the persons provided, the disclosure of the information would help to inform them of the capacity of the medical aid contractor, the volume of the patient flow from there and indirectly to form opinions on the fact that the contractor is preferred by the patients and what is the quality of the medical or dental assistance he provides. In order to carry out medical aid and to holders of a marketing authorisation for medicinal products, the announcement of information would have a positive effect, in particular from the point of view that free competition between them and the desire to improve the quality of medical care in order to attract more patients would thus be promoted. The latter would, in the end, again benefit the insured persons. Therefore, honourable Members, the proposal made would be in the interest of the health system, providing a mechanism to limit the unlawful and inappropriate spending of public resources. We would achieve this by revealing to the general public the possible significant disproportions in payments that have benefited certain persons by crossing similar trends in the future. My fellow Members, please support our proposal as all your representatives in the Committee on Health have supported it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u153	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. First line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u154	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! We have decided on this Law to work in a constructive spirit. In view of this, I must admit that we accept the importer's proposal with regard to this criterion. In itself, we accept this proposal as appropriate because it takes into account the patient's satisfaction, which cannot be not for the benefit of healthcare subject number one, namely the patient's. Our concerns are regarding the objectivity and precision of the criteria that will be assessed by which this satisfaction will be categorized, and that is why our proposal is. In proposals to study satisfaction, and especially on this basis, proposals to terminate the contract for systemic dissatisfaction and systemically poor service, we see if the criteria are not precise, and charge populism, and the possibility of manipulation and abuse. Without defining the concepts, without their detailed categorization, these measures, if anything, would be in the hypothesis of bias, subjective attitude, and that would vitiate the whole idea the importer is proposing. Speaking of satisfaction, I take both sides into account both patients and the specific RHIF. We assume that on the basis of this new concept there may be unfounded complaints, slanders, and why not even attempts at racketeering, if there are no clear assessment criteria. In addition, we believe that only this breach should not be the sole reason for the termination of the contract with the contractor of activities. If this text is adopted, we propose the criteria for satisfaction to be proposed by the Minister of Health. The Minister of Health would be a kind of arbitrator, we hope objectively, between the two countries, the RHIF and the contractor of the service concerned. Of course, I am abstracted by the fact that, in terms of any person, the Minister of Health. We think a more objective assessment of satisfaction would actually give the Ministry of Health. We therefore ask you to support, as the Committee on Health, our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u155	Thank you, Mr. Kardzhaliev. - What's the line? I won't. The word has Krasimir Petrov, then Emil Raynov and then Ruslan Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! In my opinion, the problem that is emerging is the insufficient opportunity to define the concept of satisfaction. I believe that when a law is adopted, it must deal with concepts that are subject to an exact definition. In this case, I went to a lot of trouble, checked in a lot of places what is the exact definition of satisfaction. In most places, this is recorded as a state. If we have to accept a criterion of satisfaction, which, moreover, is also present in the Law that we are currently adopting, this is the correlation between the expected and obtained result. Let's go with that definition. The problem is that the result is one set and the medical activities performed by the staff are only part of this set that would possibly satisfy the patient. I give a very simple example: surgery has been carried out or any other treatment according to the rules of medical art, nevertheless the result is not satisfactory, that is, the patient is not cured. Can we then expect them to be satisfied from the loved ones of this patient? There's an extremely high dose of subjectiveism. In my opinion, that is not a term that should be present. Whatever criteria the minister introduces, I have no doubt that he will be conscientious, in any case there will be satisfaction from the medical activities carried out. The patient looks one way at medical activities, he has one expectation. The possibilities of real medicine are different. In my opinion, in this case, we are giving an opportunity for a treatise and here for a flood of complaints that will rain. Not to mention something else, however, we should not forget that we have enough unscrupulous patients, as well as doctors. Mr. Minister, if it's about the satisfaction of those patients who beat up, then what do we do? Besides healing, there should be a doctor who's beaten up to be satisfied. That, of course, in the form of a joke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u157	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. A line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! In a spirit of constructivism, I thank my colleagues in advance who supported our proposal in full, especially in the part about publishing every month all the data on the Casa website. I would like to say that, even after the Committee on Health, when this decision was adopted, the next day, the Casat for the first time in a long time published the first data that showed precisely this transparency that we are all talking about. I would like to include technical corrections to the final proposal: this is being created. 4a "Announces monthly on the website of the NHIF for funds paid in the previous month for hospital medical care in hospitals, as well as for Naturally, I am pleased that the Minister was also at the height of his position and took the responsibility to write a regulation in which to precisely formulate this definition of satisfaction. I also welcome the fact that all our fellow Members have supported us to fall and the measure of satisfaction from.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I hope you'll back us up with the correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u159	Thank you, Mr. Raynov. A line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u160	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! The proposed text in § 7 introduces an obligation of the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund to receive the satisfaction of patients from the medical care provided, and even of medicinal products, medical devices and diet foods in the importer's text. Thank God, we have refused the Commission to do this according to a methodology which so far is not known and is intended to be adopted by a legislative act. Further on in art. 59 undertakes that the Director of the relevant Regional Health Insurance Fund, with an imperative provision, is to sanction the institution concerned, which has sinned, according to the subjective opinion of several patients, according to a methodology which we do not yet know, of systemic dissatisfaction. It is not right as a subjective category of frustration to impose a sanction. In one version you will see it further in art. 59, is the termination of the contract with the Health Insurance Fund and in the other is the........................................................................................... It's not right for me to impose a penalty. Dissatisfaction is entirely possible to be deliberate, influenced or stimulated in an unknown way by competition, for example. In the French and German healthcare regulation system, the physician, respectively the medical care provider, is responsible for carrying out the medical care due, i.e. he is responsible for performing the medical legorhythms, but not for the subjective perception of the patient. The doctor must apply dues according to the rules of art for treatment, and the result is not and cannot be owed. Naturally it is the performer to do everything necessary to achieve a result that satisfies the patient, but this, as you all understand, is not always possible. Although the contract between a patient and a doctor is not named according to our legislation in legal theory, it is called a contract for treatment rather than a contract for healing. It is also a legal aid agreement with lawyers, not a lawsuit, not to go into other areas. I would like to stress that the patient's satisfaction is also being examined under current legislation. That's with the regulation that accredits medical institutions. The result, however, is used by the manager of the medical establishment, his team, but it is not a means of sanctioning, but a means of improving the work with patients, rather a marketing tool. Let's not put on the Health Insurance Fund an unimportant function which is already involved with a lot of other functions and does not have enough resources. From now on, it can be predicted that frustration will be greater than those medical institutions that represent the backbone of health, those who offer treatment for the last choice, can be said last instance before Saint Peter. Adopting this text will create a prerequisite for tension between doctors and patients due to the condition to sanction the medical institution by subjective sensations. Moreover, doctors will begin to avoid and refuse treatment for conflict patients, for patients with unrealistic expectations, for patients with diseases that give little chance of a favourable outcome. Let each of you answer whether he or his loved ones want to be treated or not, even if they have a 5% chance of a favourable outcome. Perhaps the doctor will refuse precisely because of such a text in the Law, which I hope we will not accept. Each doctor in this room knows that practically always patients do not distinguish between an urgent and urgent condition. The complaints on this basis are also numerous, so they will be stimulated more. To conclude, I would like to point out that, by creating a penalty on the basis of subjective opinions, we are proposing an injustice, and the task of the Law is, in addition to settling public relations, to settle them fairly. Finally, I will add something that I ask you to honor by forming your opinion when you vote for dropping the proposed text for measuring satisfaction are both the Bulgarian Medical Union and the Bulgarian Dental Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u161	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. A line? I can't see. To speak, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, we at the Patriotic Front will support the Commission's revision. Why would we support this piece of paper? Because reaching this text took several hours of serious and thorough debates in the Committee on Health. This text has been adopted by the Commission with a broad consensus. Moreover, what escapes the speeches of the negotiators is that this text, honourable Members, is in direct connection and correspondence with the amendments that are pending and are adopted by the Committee on Health in art. 35 of the Health Insurance Act, specifically in § 9. Dear colleagues, if we do not adopt this text today, which is proposed as an amendment by the Committee on Health, this means, firstly, that we are not honest with Bulgarian patients, because a law does not only regulate public relations, it must guarantee equality. Equality! It is not true that the criteria are missing. At least, Bulgarian doctors know perfectly well that many of these criteria are laid down in national framework contracts. So they're there. These are the quality criteria for providing the medical service. By supporting this text of the Commission, we honourable Members will enable more than 2 million Bulgarian patients to have the opportunity with the next § 9 to exercise direct control. Over the past few months, we have seen many media reports showing that activities have been taken into account that have practically never been carried out. Moreover, one of the reasons for submitting a complaint to the patients is even the existence of unregulated payments - something that there was a full and unanimous consensus here that we should fight the unregulated payments. Naturally, the refusal to issue the medical documentation has been under way for some time with another serious civil discussion regarding the informed choice for the administration of vaccines. It turns out there are huge gaps in the lack of medical documentation. So I call on you, fellow Members, to support the Commission's revision. It is refined and, I repeat, corresponds to the texts of § 9 and the amendments to art. 35 of the Health Insurance Act, which will enable the Bulgarian citizen to exercise direct control over the carrying out of medical activities and the spending of funds for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u163	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. We're going to vote on § 7. The first proposal is from the MP Krasimir Petrov and Ruslan Toshev. The Commission does not support the proposal. Please vote. They voted 91 MPs: 8 against 27, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. The proposals of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov are supported by the Commission. We are voting on the proposal of Dimitar Shishkov and Valentin Pavlov, not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 107 MPs: 11 against 34, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. Before voting for the editorial of § 7, a proposal has been made by Dr. Raynov in art. 4a The words "supplied products' shall be replaced by "medicine products'. We vote this exchange. They voted 111 MPs: 109, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the final version of § 7 with the recent change made to the medicinal products. We are voting § 7 on the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 109, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u164	According to § 8 there is a proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov, § 8 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Emil Raynov and a group of Members of Parliament will be The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u165	Debates? I won't. I put to the vote the proposals of Tuncher Kardzhaliev and a group of MPs and Emil Raynov to drop § 8. The proposals are not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 110 MPs: 21, against 55, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u166	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u167	Procedure. Mr. Georgiev, come in. I didn't see you. Cancel the vote. Chavdare, you're sitting in a corner and you can't see a thing. That's why I didn't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u168	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Minister! I am making a procedural proposal for a re-voting because all MPs have not been able to vote. I'm asking you to put him through a re-election.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u169	What are we voting on?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u170	Paragraph 8 shall be dismissed on a proposal from the MP Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Emil Raynov and a group of MPs. Please vote. They voted 115 MPs: 19 against 64, abstentions 32. The offer is not accepted. And we vote on the text of the importer for § 8, supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 116 MPs: 96, against 18, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u171	According to § 9 the proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov: "Paragraph 9 to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Emil Raynov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 9" is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Semir Abu Melih and Dimitar Petrov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Semir Abu Melih, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it in t. 1 the words "supplier' are replaced by "supplier'. 2. The creation of para. 2: supplied persons are entitled to submit complaints to the Director of the relevant RHIF when they are not satisfied with the medical activities related to the medical care provided. The complaint shall be lodged in accordance with Chapter Two, Section X, describing the reasons and indicating at least one of the following grounds: 1. reported but not completed medical activity; 2. quality of medical assistance which does not comply with the quality criteria laid down in national framework contracts; 3. denied access to medical documentation; 4. received from a medical or dental aid contractor amounts without legal basis.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u172	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Debate regime. Here you are, MP Maya Manolova. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u173	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Moskov! My statement is on t. 1 of the proposed § 9 and relates to questions of citizens, patients, in relation to the widely proclaimed health reform by the health minister. What people have understood from the statements of the Minister and from the vote of the National Assembly so far on this very important law is that Minister Moskov made the most important step in his reform, namely made the payment mandatory in the health system. Dividing the packages into basic and additional people understood precisely in this way that those who have the misfortune to become ill with one of the diseases that will be included in the extra package will threaten their treatment entirely. In this regard yesterday citizens in Shumen asked me the following two questions which I will address to the Minister because, I admit, I was unable to answer them. [[Relations of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova.]] They are related, dear Mrs Daritkova, to the text under consideration and to the division of the package into a basic and additional one. The first question is this, Dear Mr. Moskov: does a citizen who is socially weak have minimal income and is therefore exempt from payment of a consumer fee, including for his stay in hospital, pay the treatment of his own disease, which will be classified as such from the additional package? I mean, will the socially weak pay for diseases that are not in the main, but in the extra package? And the second question is related to the hysteria that revolves around preventive examinations, and your intention to fine those who have not submitted to them. I, by the way, agree with this idea of yours, because we are responsible for monitoring our own health, but people ask me whether carrying out a profile review will be included in the basic or additional package, i.e. whether because I have no money to do prevention, a Bulgarian citizen has no money to do prevention, then will be fined? In general, whether prevention will be in the main or in the additional package. Since so far you have not been able to give a meaningful answer to which diseases will be in the main package, which will go into the additional, this tension among the people is really reasonable because they are worried. They have no money to support themselves, let alone pay for their treatment in hospitals, including those 1200 you mentioned just now in urology. In this regard, I express my concern for your political career and your ministries. And my concern is related to the following: You, instead of transferring this heavy responsibility to the National Assembly to assess which diseases of the people will be in the basic package, that is, they will be free, and which will go into the additional, that is, people will have to pay, you have burdened yourself with that responsibility. And what I see and not being a fortuneteller and having a crystal ball is that the moment you include some diseases in the extra package, including prevention, including burdening the socially weak, exempt from user fees, to pay for the treatment of diseases in the extra package, you will just be stoned from your ministerial chair. We are worried about your head of health minister because you are taking on yourself too heavy responsibilities to make decisions that relate to the distribution of money in the Casa, which you may get away with, given that people are very patient, but the moment you explain to them that for some of your diseases they will have to pay, and they have no money for it, I really think you will have very serious problems. I expect you to answer my questions. I will inform people in due course, because so far from your fairy tales they cannot navigate these extremely important things for them. Laws are passed, there is talk of reform, but what will happen in practice nobody knows, and most likely you yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. For a line? Here you go, Mr. Shishkov. For the second line, Mr. Raynov. Is there anyone for a third line? Chavdar Georgiev the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Firstly, people should not be afraid that there should be packages, because there is no European country that does not have packages in healthcare. Each health insurance system distributes diseases into packages. I understand that there is a great desire to do these things here, but this is about competence, about practitioners. I'll give a simple example, Mrs. Manolova. If you have a hernia that's 10 years old, it's in the second package, but if this hernia gets stuck, you go into the first package. That means he was becoming an emergency patient. That's what it says, and that's what's gonna be written. However, when the principle and the law are first adopted, then regulations are made. That's how I think it should be, and not for anything else, because I don't know if we're ever gonna get there. Let us first vote on the principle, because they obviously work unprincipledly in the Netherlands, in Germany and elsewhere in Europe. People are scared that they're paying for everything 100 percent. You don't pay anything! In this way, the contribution of money to the health of people is enhanced. People need to learn that health care isn't just Lalagic politics, it's something that costs money. That's what this is about. So there is nothing scary and in this principle that we have to accept is built on this particular thing: the upgrade in the next step, for the entry of the second, the third pillar in health insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u176	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. For the second line please, Mr. Raynov. Third line.. Chavdar Georgiev. And rest, after the back, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Mrs. Manolova, you spoke well of an extra package. As we understand it, nothing is described anywhere. I'm addressing you for nothing, not my fellow reformers. My concern is that this is going to come out here. Perhaps January month will be a fact, and then people will face these two packages for the first time, how they will have to pay twice for something they received the previous year. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Mrs. Manolova, are you listening to me? And if it won't happen, I'm making a vague association about what happened in February 2013, when people got their double electricity bills. It's gonna be something like this. Frankly, I wouldn't want to be in the minister's seat when that happens either.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u178	Thank you, Dr. Raynov. Third line.. Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u179	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Comrade Manolova [[Laughter and excitement in GERB]] Your questions are too conceptual. The Minister won't understand them. In his health reform, there is no concept. Understand, these questions are very difficult and difficult to answer. Its goal is to make health care a huge market. The people they have will pay, those who do not have money will die. That's his concept, and you're asking him here a question about how it's going to happen in one hypothesis, how it's going to happen in another hypothesis. There are no such hypotheses about him, so you have no need to ask questions to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u180	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. A hole? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u181	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Moskov! Dear Mr. Shishkov, I appreciate your attempt to answer for the Minister and guess what's in his head. This is really complicated because I think he doesn't know what he's going to do with the two packages himself, and especially what he's going to do with the citizens when they find out about the two packages. In this case, the question of hernia is not conceptual at all. It is actually very real and very specific and the hypotheses are very disturbing for Bulgarian citizens. Because if you, Dr. Shishkov, have a hernia, whether it is 6 months old or 10 years old, you have money and you will pay the treatment of your hernia, but if the citizen is socially weak or who receives a salary of 400 BGN, has a hernia of 10 years, he will surely have a hernia of 15 years and 20 years, because he will not have money to pay for her treatment. Here, this is Dr. Moskov's reform. In addition, excuse us, do not bawl us with fairy tales. There are waiting lists everywhere in Europe. What I saw yesterday in Shumen is nowhere in Europe. High-tech equipment in a complex oncological center, built thanks also to municipal money, at the highest level, in the afternoon high-tech equipment was not used for one reason Hospital leaders already understand that the Supervisory Board appointed by the same Minister Moskov is operating in an illegal capacity. Dr. Moskov, your decision to distribute the money to hospitals is absolutely illegal. Now the chiefs of hospitals are starting to sue you, so your building, which you have built to be stubborn against the interests of doctors and patients, will soon fall into court. You have a problem with the Bulgarian court, which until now appeared monthly, will begin to appear weekly, as people start to judge you. And as for your future as Minister, I worry about him because I think the moment you single-handedly say which diseases will be paid in the extra package and which will remain in the main one, you end up with your career. [[GERB lines.]] By the way, this is the fate of every health minister, broadcast by GERB, and yours is one of the proofs of this. [[Mister Moskov is looking at the balcony.]] Is there something interesting in the attic we should be looking at? [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u182	Mrs. Manolova, thank you. Dear colleagues, take 30 minutes off. We'll continue at 2:05. Jevdet Chakarov was the first to sign up. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u183	We're continuing the hearing. There is a floor for the speech of the MP Jevdet Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u184	But the Minister is gone!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u185	Please call the Quaestors for Minister Moskov to come to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u186	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I was provoked to take into account this paragraph, especially in view of the adoption of an act regulating the separation of the medical services package paid by the Casa into primary and additional. I allow myself to speak again on this subject because, firstly, when discussing the Bill last time from the parliamentary tribune, and today many colleagues have pointed out as an example that in leading countries with established democracies, with well-functioning healthcare systems, there, you see, there were also waiting lists. Countries such as Sweden, Norway, the Netherlands are indicated. Planned operations have been waiting for months. Let me say that this cannot in any case be referred to as an argument, as a plus, as a positive. We all know that these countries are looking for strategies and options, so these lists of waiting to be as few as possible. In a word, this is not a practice to be approved positively by the parties concerned, and we take this experience as an argument that we can divide the packages into basic and additional, something that we of the DPS do not take at first. Is it a reform to limit patients' access instead of introducing in order to improve the service, we ourselves have to liquidate the wide access that we now all have as citizens, going to the appropriate medical facility, and from now on to form waiting lists. I have repeatedly said in both the Commission and here, from the stands, and today I will repeat again: we are putting our fellow doctors in an extremely difficult, delicate situation. Besides, patients are wondering which hospital to go to, where to find a place to operate. Already in the clinics and in the wards have formed waiting lists, which are around October, November, December, around New Year's Eve. We at the DPS have already repeatedly pointed out that the ways to overcome this are e-health, the introduction of an effective control system, the national health card and so on. At the last meeting of the Committee on Health, the Minister of Health Mr. Moskov pointed out to a question asked by me in view of the overcosts, which are again received and are already a fact. More than 200 million. BGN that in a number of hospitals there are counting of funds in times. He specifically pointed out for certain diagnoses as comatose patients, in times more than Pirogov and Military Medical Academy. Where are the regional structures that respond and should exercise effective control of this not happening? Unfortunately, this control must be conducted first and foremost from our point of view by the Ministry. I asked Minister Moskov: why is there no effective control and why is all this allowed? Isn't everything that is being undertaken aimed at not spending too much, to have an effective use of the already available limited financial resources?! And this isn't happening! There is no way for all of this to be realized if there is no effective control and opportunities for the conduct of such control, which, by the way, called for the implementation of Dr. Glinka Komitov, Director of the National Health Insurance Fund. Secondly, we never received a clear estimate of the effect of splitting the package. Mr. Chairman, that is why I want the Minister to be here, too, so we can get an answer from him. I ask specific questions: how much will the service of the basic package cost? What is the specific amount per year and what comparison can be made with NHIF payments? How much will the extra package cost? How many patients, according to the available statistics, are expected to fit into the base package and how many additional ones? There are a number of other questions we don't have an answer to right now, and they haven't been asked once. No assessment of the impact of this measure on the system was submitted at all. My request is to finally get an answer to these questions. Thirdly, the DPS will not refuse to attack the separation of the package of medical services into basic and additional because it divides citizens. It's totally discriminatory! There is no equal obligation to pay the same amount of health insurance from everyone to create different rights to access medical care depending on the diagnosis. We can't share people by disease. Therefore, in time for this Law, if this distribution remains, we will refer to all the competent institutions about this discrimination of Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Here's a line, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u188	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Chakarov, you are asking very clear questions like Comrade Manolova, but there is no one to answer! Why are you asking them at all?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u189	The minister will be here. They just confirmed it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u190	I was under the impression that the minister is deaf today. Maybe he went to see if there was anything with his health or not. [[Noise and lines in GERB and RB.]] Therefore, I also join you, dear Mr. Chairman............ call the Minister of Health. He proposes these reforms. He has to. is here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u191	To reassure you, I have urged him, and I hope that soon he will respond to the invitation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u192	Be even more persistent! The Minister must be here so that he can answer the reasonable questions offered by the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u193	What line is that?! What procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u194	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u195	Dear colleagues, speaking of equality, why are delegated budgets so different and for some hospitals more delegated than others? Is that a tie? Only in Plovdiv can we give... You know very well for which hospitals how budgets are delegated and for others how they are. When a hospital is delegated five times more budget than is needed, of course there will be overwrite. When the doctor's work is not valuable, of course there will be writing. No way! If any of you are given ten million, you will be able to master whatever methodologies, whatever ways there are invented. That's the idea. The package guarantees at least one thing "all that is needed to happen in the emergency state and for a certain group of diseases must happen and have money for them. You must have ruled out what was going on in health care a long time ago. I keep working Monday and Tuesday, and I know exactly what the first package is and what the second package is. We don't have to ask ourselves: what does splitting the packages mean? That's it! Fact! As a doctor, I know what I can delay in emergency and what I can't. Perhaps you've forgotten.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u196	That's the thing. It's not you. It's the packages they're putting off.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u197	This is exactly the job of the doctor and the specialist to show right now exactly what. We don't come up with anything new. We don't invent hot water.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u198	Thank you, Dr. Shishkov. Here you go, Dr. Daritkova, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u199	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Dr. Chakarov, ladies and gentlemen! Despite the systematic violation of procedural rules and speeches in general and throughout health policy, I will allow myself, without wanting to enter this debate, because colleagues are constantly deviating from the texts we are currently discussing. I understand that there is a lot of tension in the sector, but even now the main package is determined by a regulation from the Minister of Health. However, this package must be redefined because the universal universality and accessibility of what is now proclaimed in reality does not happen. I don't think you're all gonna argue that. We are now giving the Minister the opportunity to define a package that will preserve common and universal access as the basic knowledge of the health insurance solidarity model. At the same time, I believe that the principle is not violated because this will be done through a regulation of the Ministry of Health. Of course, if we want greater guarantees, we may in the future consider whether this regulation should not be applied to the Council of Ministers in order to have greater certainty that the conciliation procedure will ensure compliance with all the principles that require the absence of lobbying pressure from one direction or another. However, I believe that at this stage there is in no way changing the procedure so far, and that any suggestion in the direction that some diseases will be placed in more privileged relations is rather speculation. I believe that we should all ensure, through the public discussion of this regulation, that the socially significant diseases and achievements that Bulgarian patients now have within the framework of the basic package must be maintained. I believe this will assure us of the Minister of Health. I guarantee that, at the next meeting of the Committee on Health, I will invite the management of the National Health Insurance Fund, the Supervisory Board and the Minister of Health to discuss all current issues concerning the implementation of the Casata budget, so that all issues raised here can find their solution precisely at the place where the parliamentary control is.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u200	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u201	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, I will first respond to Assoc. Shishkov. Professor Shishkov, we haven't forgotten because every Monday and Tuesday and I'm at the clinics, and I'm a surgeon doctor, and I know very well how what's put in. As far as delegated budgets are concerned, you should know the position of the DPS that we have always been against delegated budgets. From there on, the reform that you represent is no reform at all. I've said this repeatedly. It's an absolute distortion in the system, an attempt at a failed reorganization. We see the results from the New Year so far, the spending of funds is again in place. You tried to impose limits, you tried to change the methodology of payment, the result is a fact. So we have to look for other reserves that exist in the system and we point them out. I really want to get an answer.. all of us as citizens of this country... how much will the basic package cost? How much will the extra package cost? We don't have any vision right now, no impact assessment. I share, Mr. Georgiev, that the issues are very relevant, that all of us are concerned and we really need to get a clear answer from the Minister, who is responsible body for policy formation, for realization, for control. He himself in the Committee on Health states that in a number of hospitals there has been an excess of funds, and since the beginning of the year, when the entire budget has been presented and approved by the Ministry and by the National Assembly, by the majority. We can see the results. We must not go and refer to negative experience. Dr. Daritkova, we do not share the division of packages because there is no clear vision at the moment. No one indicates what the assessment will be, there is no assessment of an impact on the system as a whole. If there is an improvement, my colleagues and I from the DPS are concerned, and I also agree with them and I am empathetic about reform. We are constructive and we want there to be a reform, there must even be a non-party consensus on this in order to have a better functioning of the health care system. Unfortunately, however, this is not the approach. We do not share this approach and we have said from the beginning, we have presented our proposals. A very minimal part of them are accepted and approved, but this does not essentially change the philosophy of changes in legislation. It is evident that there is a very serious problem in the healthcare system.. neither doctors nor patients are satisfied. Over three billion resources are being spent annually. The other thesis that colleagues in the Reformation bloc developed is that money was not enough. This is the opportunity of the state! Do I have to say it from an opposition position? This is the available limited financial resource and we need to spend it effectively. It is said that in this term, when there is a ruling majority that controls the subject, the Ministry, the Cashier, hospitals are allowed to exceed the limits clearly by incorrect reporting and overwriting of hospitalized patients. This must not happen and must not be allowed to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front. I give the floor to the chairman of the group Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u203	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Once again, Bulgaria has become a defeat of ethnic unrest. Just three weeks after the clashes in the village of Garmen, Blagoevgrad region, a new conflict broke out between Gypsies and Bulgarians, this time in the capital, in the district of Orlandovtsi. The occasion is the same strong music from a stopped car, exchange of lines and crowd, armed with axes, stakes, knives and others, running to punish the remark you made. The problem in the Orlands has its history, which we are obliged to recall here. On 17 January 2011 in the Municipal Council Angel Dzhambazki of IMRO submitted the request of 3 thousand residents of the district of Orlandovtsi to hold a local referendum for the demolition of illegal buildings in the neighborhood and the exodus of the illegally staying aliens. The Sofia Municipal Council refused to hold a referendum and the regional mayor did not take any measures to bring down illegal buildings. Once again, happily there are no deaths, fortunately not only the victims, but also the whole of Bulgaria, as the fatal outcome would lead to a second Katunitsa, namely the mass attacks of gypsy neighborhoods, ghettos and neighborhoods. Once again, our homeland passed by a hair of a large-scale ethnic conflict, as the Patriotic Front warned from the National Assembly's stands in December 2014, February 2015 and on May 27th after the events in the village of Garmen. Quoting: Once again, the legality and elementary norms of public conduct are brutally violated by a self-loathing crowd and once again the motherland is facing the severe problem of cohabitation of large groups of people who violate the laws of the country against a small group of compatriots whose only fault is that they require compliance with the law by all. Once again, we are witnessing the powerlessness of the police. The risk of escalation of tension and ethnic opposition is more than obvious. The above quote we read a third time from the National Assembly's stand, as so far there has been no result. This was the reason on 27 May 2015 the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front raised the issue of combating domestic crime as one of the seven conditions to continue the support of the current government. Unfortunately, the actions carried out so far in the direction of the management of domestic crime are based on organizational events, without the expectations of the entire Bulgarian people strengthening the police presence in the criminal areas. Without such a presence, the behavior of the criminal contingent will remain uncontrollable and unpredictable. We fatly stress that some of the representatives of the Gypsy ethnicity make an enormous effort to live according to the law, to educate their children and to join the Bulgarian people despite the enormous difficulties arising from their surroundings in the ghettos and in the gypsy neighborhoods. The efforts the state must make are to stimulate and promote this behaviour. We are also aware of the deep political reasons that create the sense of impunity in this ethnicity. Ahmed Dogan's promises in Stolipinovo were marked that if they voted for the DPS, the Gypsies would be released from the payment of electricity and water, which was followed by the mass buying of whole neighborhoods and neighborhoods with increasing amounts of tens and centurions of the unconstitutional and pro-Turkish party. This contributed to further encapsulation and opposition of the Gypsy ethnicity against the Bulgarian people. A patriotic front believes it is essential for the Ministry of Interior to develop a long-term strategy to control crime among Gypsy ethnicities, including mainly police measures. In doing so, we strongly disagree with the attempts to present the clashes as a manifestation of social tensions. There has been no case of crowds armed with axes and hoops chanting: There wasn't a case like this! In this long-term strategy, the main role must be played by the state with its institutions, not by seeking compromises in negotiations with Gypsy leaders, representatives of the criminal world, or owners of pawnshops. The role of the Regional Management of the Ministry of Interior must be strengthened and, above all, of the Regional Inspector as an authority officer, who knows the problems and inhabitants of the criminogenic area. His attestation and salary should be bound by periodic report and analysis of the results, number and severity of crimes in the area. We must build or, more precisely, restore the duty stations of the Ministry of Interior in the major ghettos and criminogenic neighborhoods. Strictly sanction any violation of public order, starting from the ban on the use of sound systems in the open air, including with religious purposes, strong music by motor vehicles, the use of hornons in violation of the Law on Street Traffic and Roads, the use of streets and public areas for private celebrations and other These violations at first glance seem insignificant, but they continue for decades and give rise to hatred and desire to react, not to mention mass thefts, robberies, violence and even murder. In areas with increased crime concentration, the grouping of larger groups of people should not be allowed, but in the case of demonstrable carrying of cold weapons, tools, sticks, stones and others, immediate detention should be carried out for 24 hours to clarify the identity and the reasons for carrying them. Twenty-five years after 10 November, every citizen of the Republic of Bulgaria must permanently be given respect and respect to the law as it is in all democratic countries, and in citizens for whom the creation of such an attitude is difficult and impossible, fear of the law must be imposed. Fear of the law by using all the power and weight of the institutions. A patriotic front strongly insists on speeding up measures against domestic crime, not from election considerations, but from its deep conviction that any delay can sabotage both the political stability and the security of the state. The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front proposes that within a week of urgent consultations between all parliamentary parties and the Ministry of Interior, in order to coordinate and adopt legislative changes to facilitate the work of the institutions in the fight against domestic crime. We believe that the convening of the National Security Council is absolutely imperative and we have a position that there is no problem that cannot be resolved by the united political will. A patriotic front states its readiness to support all measures in this direction and will expect swift results in the direction of fulfilling the seven conditions set out in the declaration of 27 May 2015. The state is in debt to the Bulgarian taxpayer, who expects it to protect its life, health, property and rights. Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u204	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. I give the floor to the MP Lachezar Ivanov. Here you go, Assoc. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u205	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, I would like to share with you that under this Health Insurance Act, as always, there are extremely many passions. arguments of any nature shall be given. However, we all know that healthcare funds are increasing every year and, as has been said here just now, these funds are short and they are always short. There are dissatisfied both among doctors, so dissatisfied with patients, which automatically means something's wrong or something's wrong. I think that one of the merits of this Bill and of the things that I approve and fully support is the division of a basic and additional package. I'll tell you why. Because when responsibilities are defined precisely, defined and clearly taken into account exactly in the basic package, in which basically clearly and precisely all socially significant diseases are formulated, then there will be no retreat, and in no way will one or other medical institutions be able to look for a reason for not being financed, notice. All hospitals so far for one reason or another claim that their money is short. But if we all look at their reports, we will see the financing of some medical institutions by how many times they exceed the activities of other medical institutions, which for modest activities receive much more money than pillars in our health care. I have something else to say. This is where they talked about waiting list. Everyone who deals with medicine knows very well that to date there are, albeit vaguely defined, such a waiting list. That's why calls are being started:..Please help!.......................... and so on and so forth. Everyone here in this room knows it very well. When we clearly formulate these positions, when we say: The main package includes socially significant diseases that are of great importance to the nation. Colleagues, who pays much of the supplies needed for these clinical pathways? Let's make it clear here, from the stands: we pay for it, the patients, out of our own pocket. When we define clearly and precisely in the extra package what will enter, then we will find, notice... I want to say one more thing. I want to go a little further here and we will also find an alternative for additional funding of the Health Insurance Fund. Yes, health insurance funds have been closed, but now, at the moment, there is insurance, so all those activities and supplies that are not covered will already be clearly defined.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u206	How much are we gonna give them?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u207	You'll give me a line, Mr. Ademov. Here, one of the huge problems that have been posed is for accessibility. Do not speculate on the accessibility and protection of patients for access. Yes, they have access now, but let's see what it is, what qualified help they receive in Rudozem for example, and what, say, in Sofia, Plovdiv, Kavarna, I set an example. So when it comes to access, it doesn't just mean that there's a hospital that, one way or another, performs some kind of, I explain, works on no more than 4-6 paths, these are all small hospitals. Where is the complex assistance left for the patient when we want to raise the patient's care and your concern.. normal, for all of us, for the patient to receive better health care? The other thing that's been analyzed, these are the prophylactic re-launches. I would therefore like to point out here for everyone that the Bismarck system was created when Europe was torn apart and did not have the financial opportunities these countries now have. But this system, I add, is created so that we can help each other. The poor have no money, and the rich give for the poor, the healthy give money for the sick. It's basically so I don't develop theories about the Bismarck system. What does it mean when a person neglects his health and doesn't go to a profile review, he threatens that he can spend much more money and so on and so forth? So I would like to say here, although Parliament is the most political office in the country, that when we speak and defend patients' rights, we need to understand how we do it, because our words, and then actions for years will be sadness or burden for those who will implement our decisions. Sorry about the overdue time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u208	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. For the first line Mr. Ademov, for the second line Mr. Chakarov. Is there a third line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! My line is in the part of your speech when you talk about budgets of medical institutions and underprivileged budgets. The big problem is that hospitals shouldn't have delegated or I don't know what budgets there. The big problem is that in medical institutions should be paid for a done, and it is a quality activity, as they are said and in the reasons of the Bill, if you have read them. Next, dear Mr. Ivanov, the problem is not who are the diseases that should enter these packages. None of the opposition has said that socially significant diseases should not be a priority and should not be financed at 100%. The point is, to date, we don't know what these diseases are. We delegate rights to the Minister, and Bulgaria is a country with parliamentary government and it is parliament that needs to know which are the diseases that need to enter. Otherwise, I will ask you: what are the diseases that will enter the supplementary package and which will be donated to the insurance funds and how much this...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u210	It's a gift.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u211	This gift helps me Dr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u212	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. For a second line, Dr. Raynov. Let's take turns in groups, Mr. Chakarov. Here's a line for you, Dr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, Mr. Minister, Dr. Ivanov! Obviously, besides the minister, and you are aware of the definition of the packages, what will be in the first package, what will be in the second package, please explain to us. The second: to explain to us which package will be paid by the Cashier, with the one who will not be paid, what will happen. Give them all the things we expected to see in the Bill. We're talking again about what's going to happen, and a definition of what's going to happen is not written anywhere. And most importantly, the financial justification for how much the basic package will cost for all Bulgarian citizens, how much the additional package will cost for all, for part of Bulgarian citizens, who will pay additionally, what principles. Those things, they're the devils in the details, so tell us so we can be in class and all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u214	Thank you, Dr. Raynov. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u215	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dr. Raynov, I'm asking you the following question. You said that you support the separation of medical packages into basic and additional, but listening carefully to you, you said: when they are determined for the basic package and for the additional package. How come I'm surprised you support something that's not defined is not defined? My question is to you indirectly and to Minister Moskov: how will they be defined? I'm asking the question, and what the talkers said here. However, we need to know before we adopt these ideas already enshrined in the legislation, at second reading we will vote on them and in a few days will be in force, in action, how much will the basic package cost, how much will the additional package cost and what is the assessment I am asking Dr. Ivanov, respectively, Minister Moskov, for the impact of these changes on the basic and additional package to the system or on the healthcare system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. For the doppelganger first Minister Moskov. [[Noise and lines.]] It's offered to go through with the procedure, and then... [[Heckling]] That's when you give up your jacket at the expense of you. Here you go. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] Dr. Ademov, National Representative Lachezar Ivanov is giving up the duplicate at the expense of Minister Moskov's response.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u217	One doesn't interfere with the other.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u218	What's the problem, I don't understand?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u219	Mr. Ivanov offered to speak first and gave up the backdrop. Nothing happened. [[Heckling]] Please don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u220	Let's get down to business. This is what it looks like because you were talking about analyses, Dr. Chakarov, the analysis through the mathematical model of the Minister, not the Bulgarian Parliament, of the World Bank! If anyone doubts their ability to think well. But Dr. Raynov admitted that they are authority even for BSP, and I think that's what it looks like. By 2020, if things look like this, the cashier's expenses are up, here are the revenues, and this is the difference between expenses and revenues, the World Bank predicts an annual deficit of 500 million, 492 million, if things continue in this wonderful way, in which everything was clear, and in the future nothing was clear. So much for the assessment and economic analysis of whether it should change or not. What's the problem? Too frequent hospitalizations, unjustified hospital stay, too many hospitals, non-necessary activities that take place in hospitals, an excessive number of beds for active treatment in hospitals. What are the solutions? Networks for clinical hospital care, financing a comprehensive passage of treatment, not a separate structure, payment according to performance and satisfaction, concentration on diseases that form the health characteristics of the nation. Perhaps the things that I read, by putting problems and as possible solutions, you believe they have been taken out of the government's concept, published in December for health reform, which so long and irritable the opposition here has been criticising for over five months. The surprise in this case is that I learned last week that these are the reasons for the changes in Belgian health legislation tabled at the end of April. If something seems familiar to you as a problem and something seems like a solution to what the Bulgarian government is proposing, perhaps, there for the chaos in the head, I accept that there is chaos in my head, perhaps according to Mrs Manolova and in the head of the Belgian Parliament there is chaos, everything is fine in certain chapters at all. Now get to the point about the packages. Stats came out the other day at the National Statistical Institute. One of the main questions was: So much for what's now for free. I said it, I'll say it a hundred times if I have to. Now, at the moment, in Bulgarian healthcare is paid or paid practically for everything, whether it is a disease that invalidizes, whether it is a serious illness of your child, whether it will die from it or not if it is not treated in due time and full. For everything! If one of you decides to get out of a government hospital and into another, you'll know it's true. Bulgarian citizens know that. What the government is proposing... [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] I answer your questions, Dr. Ademov, because you asked what they would pay? I say that every Bulgarian citizen knows that it is now paying for everything. Do you understand?! No matter how important it is, my child is sick of it. What the Bulgarian government proposes and is embodied in this draft Law, which the government proposes to support, is the following: mass socially significant diseases, plus children's and mother's health care to be revalued and for them the health insurance Bulgarian citizen should not pay a penny from prevention to the toughest equipment research. This is the contract that the government wants to conclude with the Bulgarian health insurance citizens. Nothing other than the current cashier's financial resources, because it can't double or triple unless it has this idea here in the National Assembly, which I would be willing to agree to, but I don't see how it will. Nothing different from that money we have, simply and clearly directed against the groups of diseases that represent 95% of disability, mortality and child mortality. This means making a policy to direct resources, financial, human and infrastructure, to the important, serious problems of which we all, as a nation, are suffering, and for which we are obliged to pay mass, all together, mandatory in the health insurance fund. No extra charge! Diseases that are subject to delayed admission and are currently filling the Bulgarian hospitals to bring about this financial result [[shows graphs]] , are at the same time a distinct result for people's health, i.e. if these higher costs in health care were accompanied by improving the health characteristics of the nation, then this is the way. We have to find a way, and more money............ whether we will pick them up from school, from an army, from highways, we will take them if this is the way, but obviously this is not the way and it has been proven that this is not the way. One of the first things every Bulgarian knows has been proven. However, if it is not enough that it is known by every Bulgarian, and the European Commission tells us that we do not spend effectively, purposefully and towards the realization of a particular policy the funds we pour into health care, and in the years they grow geometrically. In the extra package there is no cash payment, there is no extra money, there is a scheduled reception, because these are diseases that are the subject of a planned reception around the world. I had the opportunity in parliamentary control to show you that countries such as the Netherlands, England, Sweden, which are not poor countries and have tens of billions of budgets for health care have adopted this approach. The goal is not saving, the goal is efficiency of the means we have. [[Replication by MPs Hasan Ademov.]] After taking this plan for certain groups of diseases, with the removal of certain diseases from hospital and hospital care, because this is a pure waste of money at the moment, which we do, after these countries have achieved their good health demographic indicators, there is no reason why we should not, and this is not a problem, but a solution, because there is a good example of countries that are not so far away from us and are rich countries. They do not do this for economy, but because so rationally and purposefully money is spent on health. That's how governments make politics! You know, speaking of specific diseases, in which package will be basic or additional, and that you, Dr. Chakarov, did not have clarity. Did you have clarity in December, and why didn't you ask me why with my decision, because this is still the minister's discretion because I am now a minister and not because I am different from you, we introduced two new diseases related to children's cardiosurgery into Ordinance No 40? No one asked why, then, was not excited, that is to say, it is normal for reasonable decisions to be made by the sensible state. Isn't that right? Not to assume that the state will make bad decisions for its citizens and therefore do nothing. Either way, you give until October, if you accept this way the Law, of course, in which all this will be brought to light, will be subject to further public disputes. I have no doubt that the toughest and most serious of them will be in the Parliament in the Commission and here in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u221	Thank you. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With all due respect to the doctors who are in the room, however, apparently when they see a tribune with microphones, the spirit gets excited, so I propose that we put an end to the debate on this paragraph and move on to the vote. [[Relations, noise and excitement by BSP LB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u223	Is there a counteroffer? [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] People's representative Dimitar Bajraktarov has a counterproposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u224	Mr. President, first of all, there are colleagues who have been recorded for speaking. Secondly, in essence, the changes in § 9 have not been discussed at all, because we have yet to comment on the possibility of Bulgarian patients to exercise control. We are currently commenting on the change of one word in art. 35, para. 1 and if this is how we will drive it and thus pass the Law, I propose that we go out, stay GERB and DPS and accept the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u225	You, with the reformers!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u226	Voting regime for the proposal to end the debate under § 9. They voted 105 MPs: 65, against 31, abstention 9. The proposal is not accepted as the quorum is 67. Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u227	I am doing a re-voting procedure, as some of my fellow Members have failed to vote. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP LB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u228	Revoting the proposal to end the debate under § 9. Voting mode. They voted 114 MPs: 75, against 31, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u229	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u230	I will ask that we enter into voting mode under § 9. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! The insolence of the rulers has limits too. If that is what you are doing, if you want to close the debate, if you do not want to allow any speech from the opposition, you are so afraid of this text at least one different opinion to hear, you should not accept these texts without a majority. You understand what's next, don't you? - First check of the quorum. Then there'll be breaks and everything, like on the menu leaves. [[Comments from GERB and the Reformation Block.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u232	Colleagues, voting regime for § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u233	Check the quorum! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u234	Here you go, Mr. Mikov. I didn't understand your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u235	Name check.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u236	Name check: [[The representatives of BSP LB and DPS come out of the plenary. Replies from GERB.]] Aidoan Mutalib Ali - here Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - absent Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - absent Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - absent Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - here Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valentin Stefanov Vasilev - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - absent Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Vyara Mikhailova Tzerovska - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - absent Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Darin Ivanov Dimitrov - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Ivanova Yordanova - absent Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glavchev - absent Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - absent Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - absent Dimitar Hristov Zhelev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - absent Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Zdravko Dimitrov - absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - absent Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Andonov Kotev - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Dobreva Marinova - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - here Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - absent Krasimira Peneva Anastasova - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - absent Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Maya Bozhidarova Manolova - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - absent Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - absent Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - absent Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - absent Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - absent Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov Ivanov - absent Rumen Marinov Yonchev - absent Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - absent Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussain Abu Melih - here Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - here Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - here Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - here Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - absent Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - absent Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yavor Iliev Haytov - here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - absent Ianko Alexandrov Iankov - absent Additional list: Valentin Kasabov, Dimitar Tanev, Dimitar Lazarov, Desislava Atanasova, Zdravko Dimitrov, Plamen Yordanov, Dimitar Petrov, Ivan Valkov, Methodi Andreev, Diana Yordanova, Velizar Enchev, Lubomir Vladimirov. Is there anyone who didn't hear their name? Emil Dimitrov. 129 in the hall there is a quorum. [[Applause.]] Colleagues, I propose § 9. Proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov § 9 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The same proposal was made by Emil Raynov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. We propose the proposals of these MPs, not supported by the Commission. Voting mode. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Cancel the vote and re-vote the voting regime. There's a lot of movement in the room. [[Noise and lines.]] Cancel the vote! [[Heckling]] No way, but they keep coming in! They voted 109 MPs: 9 against 80, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. Re-vote please, expected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u237	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, Mr. Minister! I am proposing a re-vote, as you can see for yourself that colleagues are still entering. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u238	Please! Please, guys! Please, colleagues, take it easy in the hall! There's a motion to re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u239	So please let's do a re-vote. I see Mrs. Tsacheva is just coming. How did you say she was present?! [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u240	It's not marked. Please, it's not marked!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u241	Okay, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u242	Revoting regime s § 9, the proposals of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Emil Raynov and a group of MPs: § 9 to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u243	Vote 139 MPs: 34 against 88 abstentioned 17. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] We're in voting mode, Mrs. Manolova! You took too long to explain yourself. The proposal of MPs Emil Raynov and a group of MPs has now been put to the vote, which the Commission does not support. Supported proposals are followed which are implicitly introduced in the Commission proposal for the revision of § 9. We are voting § 9 in the version of the Commission. They voted 133 MPs: 102, against 30, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mrs Daritkova, § 10. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Come on, figure out who wants what. One wants a re-vote, the other wants a negative vote. One at a time! Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u244	My fellow Members, on behalf of our parliamentary group, I would like the text to be revised. In fact, what was written on the dashboard, Madam President... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u245	Where's your card, Mrs. Manolova?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u246	Take my time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u247	You're out of order again, Mrs. Manolova! [[Radio.]] Count Mrs. Manolova's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u248	What is written on the dashboard is the greatest proof that your deputy Mr. Tsochev is irregular if I can use your terminology because you have just expressed yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u249	Well, when you appear in the plenary stands, what else can I say, except that you are irregular?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u250	He counted 123 people, and the voters for the... [[Noise, lines and calls.]] All right, " 129," and those who voted for the text, which was voted immediately after the quorum was checked, are 109 people. [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u251	Yes, because members of your group were on the sidelines and welcomed me, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u252	So let's do a re-vote to see how many people are present in this House by the parliamentary majority. [[GERB lines.]] The personal explanation will ask that I receive it after the voting procedure is completed, because Minister Moskov mentioned my name exactly three times. [[(Comments from GERB: He mentioned it, but where were you? You weren't in the gym!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u253	Colleagues, re-election regime. Please concentrate and continue our work. Revision of § 9 in its version of the Commission report. They voted 132 MPs: for 104, against 27, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. First negative vote, Dr. Raynov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u254	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues, Mr Minister! I guess for the last time, we're going to have to repeat why we didn't support this article. Negative vote: we did not support, because once again there is talk about the division of packages. The old rule is that when you get tired of yourself repeating it, then there's some kind of sensitivity across the street and maybe a little further. Understand, with this splitting the packages again you divide people into people from the first package, people on the second package, people who will get everything at once without paying, people who will have to wait. You are once again opposed to something very important to doctors against patients because it is the doctors who have to decide whether Mr. Mihov should be treated now or treated in six months. [[Heckling]] Personal explanation... Thus, since you claim that the money is short, by introducing de facto the additional payment, what are you doing? What do you do with these impoverished people, with what even the World Bank tells you, so we quoted him that every year 4% of Bulgarian citizens are poor because of health payments, what do you promise them from January 1st that they will have to pay even more? Dear colleagues, I see your echidden smile, but you have voters too. You'll have to explain it to them how January month, February month will happen something like double electricity bills? You will have to explain to them how at 6% health contribution the Cashier generated surplus and paid even bonuses to general practitioners, now at 8% the Cashier generates deficit.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u255	Thank you, Mr. Raynov. The two minutes are up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u256	I'll be able to comment on that further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u257	Colleagues, you're being referred to by name, and you're getting into tactics... [[Noise and lines.]] You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u258	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I voted against it because I did not actually have the opportunity to make a statement specifically on the text proposed in § 9. Since there was no substantive debate on the text itself, I take the opportunity to justify myself. Ladies and gentlemen, it is set up in art. 35 para. 2 in which the insured persons are entitled to lodge complaints with the Director of the relevant RHER when the following requirements are not met, i.e. there is, firstly, a medical activity reported but not carried out. Tell me how will the patient himself know that medical activity has been reported in which he is a country, but it has not been carried out?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u259	If it says in the epicrisis and he knows it wasn't done.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u260	This is in fact similar to the report and reports of the Ministry of Interior regarding economic crimes, which say the country's economic crimes have decreased by 12%. But who's the one who's filing the application material? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Do you think there will be patients who will signal? Secondly, the quality of medical care which does not comply with the quality criteria laid down in the National Framework Treaty. Do you, Minister, and as an importer, that patients are aware of these criteria? That is, we transfer the work of the institutions to the will of the Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u261	Mr. Iankov, you are not in parliamentary control to ask the Minister. Explain your negative vote. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u262	And the Bulgarian citizens are the ones who should have this health service. Thank you. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u263	Mr. Tasco Ermenkov, third negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u264	Can you put in order when someone's talking?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u265	I'm putting in order at Mr. Yankov's request.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u266	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I voted against this text because I believe that in Bulgaria citizens are equal both before the law and before the Constitution and before the hospital. There is no way they can be divided into socially more significant and socially not more significant, to socially weak and sick by a basic package and socially weak and sick by an additional package. We can't afford to play with people's lives here. Because you here are so excited to replicate those who speak from the stands, take your replicas. Don't keep your mouth shut. I understand you! I understand that you know this is wrong, but you're afraid to come out and say it out of the stands. Come and tell your opinion, your attitude. Let all people hear what you think about people's health, whether you care about this health. Moreover, this is where we begin to move on to absurdity. In order to be able to accept a text and explain it to us what it is, we start drawing up some schedules, some topics, something that has nothing to do with what we're talking about. If you will publish this Law in the Official Gazette tomorrow, will you publish it with the oral explanations of the Minister to know what is what and how it is? That is why there are laws in which everything must be clear... what and what term what it means. But you don't! You want us to have socially weak, to have socially poor, and only the rich can live where they're better off. To have socially significant people with their socially significant diseases and others standing in line. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] And the last thing I want to say to you. Colleagues, whatever you do with hospital care, if you don't pay attention to the hospital, as your minister said. [[GERB noise and lines]] You won't achieve anything. You'll only increase expenses there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u267	You will speak on this subject, Mr. Ermenkov. Here you only explained your negative vote. Mr. Secretary, two minutes. [[Reply.]] I have to deal with the transcript to see when you're named. There'll be an opportunity later.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u268	First, I would like to thank the MPs of the majority. In fact, what you voted at the moment was not even an improvement from my point of view of the text of the Council of Ministers, an importer: the people's representative from GERB Mr Abu Melih. That is, with what you have accepted, Bulgarian patients will be able to be the real controllers of the way money from the Cashier is spent, for which I thank you. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Why are you so afraid, socialist gentlemen, that the patient is right? Who are you protecting? What's the big deal? [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] I have to say, because when you go out here, you have to talk to them. [[BSP LB banks rumbling]] Information requires knowing that every Bulgarian health-secure citizen has a unique identification code with which he can now enter the electronic array of the Casa and see what treatment is being given to him. So much for the information issue. If someone thinks that my nerves are different from the bovine ones, I will not repeat for the hundred and the first time after the 100th lie that it is not about someone having to start paying something, but about a clear concept based on clear health indicators of the nation and that after this decision against the major mass diseases that we suffer from will not pay a single penny, unlike now. I'll repeat it one hundred and one hundred and two times. And to say one more thing, a matter of understanding. When we talk about socially significant, we talk about a disease that is massive. It's not about that, because he has the word "socially" and someone because of his party is jumping that someone is poor or rich. We're talking about this, and it doesn't matter if you're socially strong or socially weak, but that you can get your optimal treatment without paying just for your health insurance. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and the Reformation Bloc.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u269	The way you're holding Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u270	Honourable Members, Madam President, Dear Mr. Moskov! Mrs. President, I insist that you do not accept the first experience of Minister Moskov, who divided the diseases, respectively the treatment, of socially significant and socially insignificant for the Bulgarian citizens, by dividing those present in this Chamber into socially significant and socially insignificant. Minister Moskov, in your opinion, is socially important and can speak whenever he wants.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u271	That's what the rules say!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u272	When we ask him questions, he doesn't talk like a deaf person. When he decides to give a speech, he does it without worry. I insist that you consider me and Mr. Tsvetomir Mihov as socially important. [[strong noise, lines and applause from GERB]] because we were offended by the parliamentary tribune and are entitled to a personal explanation. Even Mr. Mihov has the right to a personal explanation because he is socially important after being in the Bulgarian Parliament. So please do not follow the logic of the proving reformer, where we are all looking at the extent of the reformist passion, but give us the opportunity to speak on these important texts, because the people for us socialists, unlike reformers, are socially significant. [[crowd cheering in the hall.]] All people! For reformers there are socially significant and socially insignificant. For the Socialists, all Bulgarian citizens are socially important and should be treated. This is our conceptual difference with Minister Moskov, who, too, you see, is very socially significant, but the damage he will do to the Bulgarians will be even more significant. We have to stop him! [[Private applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u273	At the hospital, at the camp in Belene, they're being treated.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u274	Mrs. Manolova, on the grounds of art. 151 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly officially remind you that you deviate from the subject matter of the procedure in this case. I will very carefully follow your and the next speeches of the Members of the National Assembly from the entire Chamber! I call for more seriousness in the second reading of the Bill that is currently under way. Paragraph 10!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u275	According to § 10 there is a proposal of the MP Georgi Kuchukov and a group of MPs: In § 10, t. Art. 2 40, para. 4a is amended as follows: For the persons referred to in paragraph 3, the contribution shall be paid in the amount determined by the NHIF Budget Act for the relevant year on the minimum social income of self-insuring persons. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov: Art. 10, Art. 40, para. The following amendments shall be made: The number "s' is replaced by "sixteen' and "sixteen'. (b) the number (c) a new item shall be created. 3: "3." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40, para. 1 new points 9 and 10 are created with the following texts: Nine. They are provided at the expense of the state budget continuously unemployed and discouraged, with registration in the labour offices, after a social survey by employees of the Directorate for Social Assistance at a permanent address. The contribution shall be determined on half of the minimum insurance income for self-insuring for the year concerned and shall be paid up to the tenth of the month following that to which it relates. 10. where there is only one working member in the family, he may provide an adult unemployed member of the family registered at the Labour Office unless otherwise provided as follows: (a) in the case of an adult unemployed family member, the contribution shall be determined on half of the minimum insurance income for self-insuring persons designated for the year concerned; (b) For each subsequent adult unemployed family member, the contribution shall be determined on 30 per cent of the minimum insurance income for self-insuring persons assigned for the year concerned. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Emil Raynov and a group of MPs: In § 10 t. 2 acquires the following content: "2." in para 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 4a The expression "half of" is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Valentin Pavlov and Dimitar Shishkov: Art. 10, Art. 40, t. 1 The Union is deleted and at the end a comma is placed and the status of which is not regulated under the Law on the Civil Service Officer, as well as the civil servants whose status is governed by the Law on the Civil Service and their basic salaries amount to up to two minimum salaries for the country. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u276	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Debate regime. The first one asked for the word Dr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u277	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Minister, this is one of the important points in changing this bill, which deals with payment of contributions. What we have allowed ourselves is to remove the expression of the half of the contribution. What's this about? At the moment, the state is paying large groups of people. I can list them all. These are children, mothers, pregnant students, students, civil servants and others. Notice, the state pays, firstly, the calculated health contribution on the basis of the minimum wage; secondly, the Law records the half of this contribution. That means we're paying half. And again we are talking about the notorious principle of solidarity in the National Health Insurance Fund, in the system on the one hand are the ordinary citizens who work, pay, chase them hardly to pay their contributions for 15 years back, and the state, this state, that state, which took nearly 2 billion leva of money from health contributions, continues to provide half of the contribution calculated on a minimum wage. Colleagues, I see that you are smiling again, but I recall how in 2010 you had accepted from 1 January 2013 the state to be a correct payer, then you changed it to half, and now it is talking about how somehow, you see, every year we will increase the contribution by 5%, so that by 2026 the state can be a correct payer, that country that is behind... what is behind, Dr. Shishkov? Behind the state health system! So let's all be equally solidarity, including the state being a correct payer. So please, fellow Members, support this thing. Otherwise, the main burden of the health system will once again fall on ordinary citizens, working citizens, those who have sent us all here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u278	Thank you, Dr. Raynov. Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u279	Dear Mr. President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, by performing an uncontrolled mode of censorship, by allocating the order of speakers, as you are comfortable with. Long before anyone here made a statement, I had said a statement. The chairman was still Mrs. Tsacheva. You have rearranged things in such a way that, shortly after a gentleman has become, he asks for an end to the debate, that practically the participants of the Commission cannot take any opinion. I ask you: on what grounds have you violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly?! How can such a thing be?! How long are we going to do this to censor and serve each other for party interests?! I strongly object to this method of censoring!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u280	I wouldn't want to use a personal explanation, but to say I've arranged for you. First of all, Emil Reinov filed his name in the beginning. Then there's Dr. Ademov, then Mr. Kuchukov. And you're on record.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u281	Long before Emil Raynov put his name on the list, this was Mrs. Tsacheva...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u282	Please! Is there a line to Dr. Raynov's statement? I won't. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u283	And now Dr. Ademov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u284	I'm asking you very much for a little more polite behavior.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, this is one of the most important proposals that we, from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, have made. In fact, in our proposal we repeat the public expressed by the Minister of Health Petar Moskov the idea when the proposed bill was publicly discussed. What we are proposing is something intermediate between what the Council of Ministers offers and what colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria offer. We propose that the state's participation should not be over 55 percent of the minimum insurance income and that each year it should grow by 5 percent. We suggest that the number 55 should be replaced by 60 and the number 5 should be replaced by 10. We are a liberal formation and we are against the redeployment of the state. That is, we have not always supported the pointless and unjustified increase in the budget of the NHIF from this tribune. In this sense, the proposal we are making is in line with the position of the Members who were in the previous Parliament know it of our longstanding position on this issue. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make an editorial note of this. 9 of our proposal to add the words of the budget after the word.............................................................................................. to add the words........................................................................................................................................................ I would ask you to put it to the vote, because this is extremely important. What we propose is that the so-called long-term unemployed people have a definition of who are long-term unemployed to be provided at the expense of the state budget. Soon I will argue who are in this category, how many are there, I will quote national statistics and nothing else. The next proposal we make: when there is only one working member in the family, he can provide an unemployed member of the family. If it is one, the insurance base shall be on half of the minimum insurance income for self-insuring persons and for each second unemployed member, unless otherwise provided, the insurance base shall be 30 per cent on the minimum insurance income. Now I'm going to give you the stats that I want you to listen carefully, Mr. Minister. The unemployed in Bulgaria at the end of April are 350 318. To qualify as unemployed, you have to be registered with the Bureau of Labour. In addition to the registered unemployed, there are 253 thousand people who are so-called "inactive" who are neither registered nor looking for work, nor are they interested in any way being realized on the labour market. In the framework of registered unemployed there are 156 469 unemployed with registration over one year. These are people who are actively seeking work, who are signing at the employment offices, and I am talking about this particular category. I made the proposal, if not provided on another basis, because some of them are provided on the basis that they receive monthly social benefits, on the basis that they receive unemployment benefits, that they receive energy support. That is, the number of 156,000 will drop dramatically with the social poll, which will say whether these people correspond to the quality of the jobless. One hundred and twenty-five thousand a year are those who provide the Agency for Social Assistance, 125 thousand! So we don't increase, we don't expand the circle of the state budget, as the Ministry of Finance says. We are talking about a small number, according to my calculations about 25,000 people who are actively looking for jobs that are unemployed for more than a year, visit the employment desks and propose the state budget to provide these people. Nothing more than what you said in your public statements. Mr. Minister, I ask you from this tribune to call on the MPs to support not ours, but your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u286	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Give me these suggestions, please. First line? I won't. For speech, Professor Kyuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u287	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! In the entire Bill there is a red thread which, if I have correctly understood your idea that all must be equal both in their rights and in their duties. In this sense, our group welcomes all measures to make people correct to the National Health Insurance Fund. It is true that the penalty offered to pay back for 15 years cannot be accepted because of contradictions with other laws. For this reason, it very unexpectedly, unusually sounds to me that in fact the largest... the state that provides a significant part of our population receives an indulgence for 10 years to become a regular payer. The financial side of the issue could not be sufficient motive because, firstly, the finances depend on the budget being voted on here. Secondly, given how many governments at the end of the year or even in the middle of the year voted for additional money for the failure to finance the Health Insurance Fund if that money were put into a regular regulation in order to become the country's regular payer, perhaps now there would not be these discussions. After all, it is paid to those provided by the state on the minimum wage. Let's not make this halfway. The proposal of colleagues from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is a softer option and we would support it, but I believe that there are real opportunities for the country to become a regular payer from next year.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u288	Thank you, Mr. Kuchukov. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u289	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Mr. Kuchukov, it is not true that people should be correct about the system. Since the establishment of this system, it has been incorrect with them since 1999. It is correct only to those who use the resources collected in it. Over 1,000 percent increased money in this system, about 2 million decreased its users. How can people trust this system? In just 5 years the money that goes to private hospitals a percentage of the Health Insurance Fund has increased from 15 to 30%. 15 days ago, a human tragedy in a private hospital. They took the money and said to the patient, "This is not a hotel! On Saturday, go out on the street in Sofia. I can tell her the name Tokuda. I'm going to start by naming those who treat them and then sending them to public hospitals. And since you're a doctor, don't you know these things? How can patients be correct? Why should they pay? Who do they pay? In order to continue the growth of money and redistribution to dividend, and the state hospitals will bankrupt them and privatize them. The examples will now be roll-call. Namely how they throw people out on the street, how they exercise private companies in their treatment, and then send them to the bad public health institutions. People don't believe! They won't believe in any promises! And socially significant people will not believe because they will go to heal abroad. He doesn't need to pay the Health Insurance Fund here, because pretty much the same expenses go and pay abroad. That's the truth. There's nothing to lie to people, and they won't believe you most.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u290	Second line? The hole, Mr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u291	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Mikov, I distinguish between the notion of correctness and the notion of trust. That many people don't trust the health care system, I accept it because until a few months ago I was a practitioner and I know what it is. I know how some of the private hospitals work, but this is not the question of raising the health contributions and therefore I didn't deal with it. The fact that we all have to be right about the system is my belief and no one can convince me otherwise. A person who isn't right about the system is not right about himself.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u292	If the system is lying to him, why does it have to be correct?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u293	To speak the word has Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u294	Thank you, Madam President. This is why it is important that there be debates, because if there were debates, I absolutely agree with what Mr. Mikov said. It's the truth! We of the Patriotic Front will support the text of the importer under this paragraph, precisely for this reason. To make it clear to you, colleagues, why we would support the text of the importer, I would have to go back to § 9 because there was not said things as they were. First of all, we're talking about correctness to the system. Yes, but § 9 was precisely about people who had health insurance rights. In other words, those who import and contribute to the system, did we want to damage these people, the 2 million, who fill this system, called the Solitary Model. And what does the solidarity model in the health care system mean? It means that if you are seriously ill and do not have the means for a severe medical procedure, all those who import their money into this Casa are practically standing behind you. Now, however, why was this paragraph not to be commented? Because you saved that other, the unpleasant part. The part against which we of the Patriotic Front have consistently declared our position for months. First of all, unregulated payments. Mr. Minister, we have commented with you. The World Bank doesn't have to come to tell me that already by this model with the accepted § 4 the Casa deficit is already 500 million, unfortunately. There is no need to come the World Bank, colleagues, to tell you, as she wrote in her report, that there are over 3 billion unregulated payments. However, the members of the Commission should recall last week what question I asked the Minister and read exactly and verbatim how and in what way are the so-called There's no such thing as that! Do not abuse or pervert things for what they are! There's a reception planned at health and medical facilities. Planned! [[Heckling]] Let's make it plan, let's not argue. The meaning is the same.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u295	Where's that written?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u296	Didn't I read you and you all didn't say anything? You kept your heads down and didn't have a word against what I read to you about how you held up the 2013 planner's reception so you wouldn't accumulate a deficit. Is that what you want me to say and quote you again? Only I'll remind you of something else. It is you, Minister, who presented the Health Commission Concept 2020 for the development of the healthcare system. Check it out, guys! Everyone has jointly accepted this Concept in the Committee on Health. Everyone admitted that the model that works now is practically a failed model. If you want to go out with me, do a citizen's poll and ask if there's a citizen who, when he goes to a check-up or anywhere related to a medical service, doesn't interfere with his pocket and doesn't pay? [[Reply from MP Mihail Mikov.]] Let's see what the answers are. Yes, as Mr. Mikov says, it's not enough that they pay, but on top of that, they don't treat them, which is the scariest. That is why we have opposed and wanted to have on this irresponsible collective body, called the Health Fund's supervision, which we cannot even control, at least have a state quota that we at least hold some responsibility for. Because that's three billion dead and practically no one can control them. I am now taking back my words, because when we talked November month with the former head of the Health Insurance Fund and she said that nothing was up to her, I stood there and I couldn't believe it. But it turns out, according to the law, it's absolutely true. And at the moment, with the vote on § 4, you have put Dr. Glinka Komitov in the same position as the Minister from them nothing to depend on. Now that's the sad truth, and we have to admit it. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We must tell ourselves clearly and clearly if we are struggling against illegal payments, whether we are trying to stimulate people who contribute to the health insurance system or the exact opposite, we want to drain the Health Insurance Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u297	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. First line, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u298	Honourable Members, Madam President, Honourable Mr. Moskov! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, in your speech you addressed two extremely important topics for the deficit, respectively the updates in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, and the theme of the waiting lists, respectively with the scheduled reception, as you have expressed yourself, in the medical institutions. I would like to ask you the following question, as you are obviously well prepared, you are aware of European practices. According to your information, the waiting lists or the scheduled reception in each normal European country are formed and what are the reasons for it? Because my information is that in normal European countries there is a waiting list and reception in cases where the technique, the specialists in a healthcare facility are sufficiently busy so that they cannot accept, review, serve all patients who need this type of treatment. In Bulgaria, the pyramid is turned 180 degrees and the procedure is reversed. Yesterday, at a well-functioning oncological center, I saw a unique expensive equipment, and another radiation technique, which in the afternoon did not function for the simple reason that the limits imposed by the Health Insurance Fund along with Minister Moskov were exhausted for this hospital. People take into account how much treatment they need to treat because they're out of money. Speaking of the money, I want to tell you that the most seriously kept secret in healthcare, in medical institutions and in the Ministry is that there will be an update on the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, because even according to the head of the Casa it is a deficit of 290 million. lv. That's what Moskov knows, that's what all doctors and patients know. It's only a matter of time before the Minister recognizes it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u299	Second line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u300	Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, I understand your concern about draining the Casket, but this is not about draining it, but about filling it. This is about the state being the correct payer, as every citizen is. This is about the state making its commitments and paying for what is necessary and which by law pays each and every one of us. She's no more privileged than we are to be put in this position. It is for this reason that Dr. Raynov's proposal and a group of MPs is to be exactly the same pay from the state as for an ordinary citizen. Because it happens that we're putting the state above the citizen. We put the state to have more rights than the common man. We make sure the state is privileged again at the expense of the people. That's what this is about, not draining into this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u301	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u302	Thank you, Madam President. I will first respond to my colleague Tasco Ermenkov. Colleague Ermenkov, a punctured landing as much as you fill it, if you don't plug the holes, there's no way you can fill it. That's my answer to you, and you know it and you understand it. Mrs. Manolova, thank you for the line, because you gave me the opportunity to really give you a little more answers. As far as the so-called plannership is concerned, yes, it exists in all developed countries. And I will come back again and mention Mr. Mikov, who was absolutely correct in his speech. Because it is really happening now so that Bulgarian patients find it cheaper to go to treatment abroad instead of in Bulgaria, where we have magnificent doctors, I declare it most responsible. There can't be an argument here. But to understand, I'll give you an example. In Bulgaria there is a so-called Fund for the treatment of children abroad. This Fund worked, so to speak, on the same principle at a planned reception. However, it turned out that many children with severe diseases could not touch this fund at all. More than that. The treatment and the funds that were spent on this fund turned out to be many times more than if, for example, you received treatment in Germany. By the way, I will give you an example with Gabriela Kchareva from the city of Burgas, who found her treatment thanks to the fact that we, the media, blew this case and finally raised money for the child and it turns out that for 5000 euros this child in Germany was given a complicated operation, it was cured the most important, against tens of thousands of levs spent on this fund without the child being cured. That's what we're complaining about. I hope you understand. That's how we're supposed to proceed. It is high time to separate things and to know: one part of these unregulated payments at least make an effort to enlighten them, at least start and get doctors to get them, as they say, legally from health insurance and insurance companies. By the way, this is also a step towards demonophilization of the Cassata, if you do not realize it. But this is the way. The pity is that with § 4 this time it was covered with a heap of stones and I do not see how it will happen any time soon.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u303	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u304	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u305	The Minister wants the floor. First the minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u306	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House. I will try to be specific about the particular text we are talking about. We are having a serious conversation about the bottom or bottomless barrel and the filling and emptying mechanisms. The state of our macroeconomic and demographic environment is severe. We have negative demographic growth and an ageing population. We have a limit in macro-rama and a slow growth in gross domestic product. We have a declining share of the working population and a slow increase in income from health insurance contributions. These are economic facts, not fairy tales. Against this background, healthcare expenditures are growing at an irresistibly different rate than gross domestic product and tax revenue and insurance. This is the general picture that somehow we can't get out of because we're coming out of reality if we get out of it. Therefore, every proposal that is being made here must be in line with those indicators, from which exit is, how to say, art literature. Whether we want something different, whether this thing is achievable now, it should correspond to the clear figures what the health demographic characteristics of the people look like and what the economic indicators of Bulgaria are. From this point of view, I have to say a few things. Firstly, if we accept the thesis that the state is not a correct paying agent and pays half and therefore we are arguing whether it should pay half or five or ten or the total contribution now, let us say that this proposal, which makes the government an importer, is in line with those macro indicators that I am talking about. It is guaranteed financially. And this is the guaranteed financial proposal behind which the government can stand on the basis of the three-year budget forecast, which is the case. That is, the proposal relates to the real possibility of financing this. Here we can say a lot of things, we can ask for a 200% increase, we can want the state to pay for everything. The point is that it has to be in line with whether there is any place for the state to take this money, that is, how much gross domestic product is, how much taxes are, how much excise taxes are. On this basis a proposal, different... and notice, the Bulgarian government gives for the first time a clear timetable for the state to increase its share. He says that the possibility at the moment on the basis of this economic division of the state is 5% per year until it reaches the full amount of the health insurance contribution. This is a clearly told effort, unlike the things that have been happening so far, excuse me. And it's a commitment that's financially lining up. The idea that the budget and the state should give, however, is devoid of another type of logic. Whether I give something for health care through my health insurance or through my tax from the budget, as far as Mr. Ademov's thesis... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] One second, Madame Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u307	Three minutes you're talking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u308	Yes, I'm sorry. That doesn't change the fact. When you look at the budget for health care and health expenditure, it has three components: the public of the Casa is three billion and a bespoke. Another third of this is related to the spending of the state through the Ministry and other ministries for health vaccines, blood products, Fund of treatment for children, Fund for treatment abroad and everything else. This is money, which again through the budget, again through our taxes goes directly to health care. And the third component is that 44% compared to 55 in the Health Insurance Fund, which people pay out of their pockets. Well, the goal of the building model behind which the coalition sits and the supporting majority management programme is this. Those 44% that Bulgarian citizens take out of their pockets, even though some of us obviously do not know it, be in the light, be through a fund and make it clear that they are given against the result because the actuary, the fund, the specialist ensures on your behalf that you get the result. Now you're taking them out because someone wants them because someone tells you something's not being funded. Whether it is so or not, whether your treatment is effective and quality that you do not know. Cash deals are deals in the Third World. There is no European country in which there is a cash market between a patient and a doctor!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u309	Ms. Karayancheva's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u310	Dear Minister, dear Madam Chairman! I propose a procedure to extend the working time until the final vote on the second reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u311	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposed procedural proposal for extending the time of today's plenary session to the final vote at the second reading of the draft discussion. They voted 120 MPs: 87, against 14, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. To speak, Dr. Pavlov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u312	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! The proposal for amendments to § 10 which we with Assoc. We have imported Zhivkov, concerning the mechanism of payment of health insurance contributions of civil servants whose status is governed by the Law on the Civil Service. It is in this respect that the payment of the sickness insurance contributions of these civil servants should be aligned with the mechanisms of workers in employment, namely a ratio of 60:40 distributed between the office and the employee respectively. This represents the first step towards ensuring a level playing field for civil servants under the Law on the Civil Service Officer with workers in employment. We propose that this process be smooth, which is why the legal change should cover the civil servants to whom the Law on the Civil Service and their basic salaries amount to more than two minimum salaries for the country. The health insurance contributions of civil servants whose status is not governed by the Law on the Civil Service Officer, namely those working in the defence system and the Ministry of Interior, as well as the civil servants whose status is governed by the Law on the Civil Service and their basic salaries amount to up to two minimum salaries for the country, will continue to be paid by the State. We believe that this would be a clear sign of a consistent application of the solidarity principle of payment of health insurance contributions both in terms of their size and in terms of the circle of debtors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u313	Thank you, Mr. Pavlov. There's a word for that, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u314	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! I would like to say a few words on ours and on your proposal for § 10, Minister. You offer § 10 for the persons under para. 3 insurance contributions to be paid by the State in the amount of one second of the minimum insurance income for self-insuring persons, possibly from 1 January 2016 to increase the insurance contribution by 5% and until that minimum insurance income for self-insuring persons is reached. It is not enough, Minister, that we provide these people who the state has an obligation to provide them, on minimum insurance income for self-insured persons, and on half! Me, when I talk about these faces under para. 3, we need to be clear about what this is about. Perhaps there should be some distinction in groups of people when we are talking about mothers with children, about students, about unemployed with benefits, maybe you have the right to think this way and to provide them with whatever amount you choose, but when it comes to the other part of those who the state has an obligation to provide them, these are civil servants, policemen, firefighters and so on, I am confused about the desire to provide them with the minimum insurance income for self-insuring persons, and I repeat, over half. I recall the intention from 1 January 2013 of the State to become a regular payer at least on this minimum insurance income for self-insuring persons, but it did not take place. Now you're putting it off until 2026. In a decade or so, as proposed, and again on this minimum social security income. Mr. Minister, in other words, you want to manage the Cashier's public resources by changing the state quota. To manage a public resource in which the state does not have enough participation. I can't help but mention it, Mr. Secretary, and that $1 billion. 400 million, nearly 2 billion, which were transferred at the end of 2010, with one vote in this House of the Health Insurance Fund, for which you are, of course, not guilty in any way.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u315	They've been back in the Cashier for a long time. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u316	It's a point of reference, let him speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u317	It's not a point of reference, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u318	That's basically what I said.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u319	I'm sorry. [[Laughter and excitement.]] I recall that because that was a living robbery by the state to these public funds, and now with this proposal under § 10 we are still robbing if we accept it, of course. Robbery of the health insurance money by not paying the persons under para. 3. Colleagues, let's accept our offer. It's in al. 4a The expression: the half of the share of the share of the share capital, i.e. the State to take over its full liability towards the health insurance and to do so as from 1 January 2016. Let's start thinking about further the provision of civil servants on real incomes, I'm talking again about providing them with full insurance income. I pay attention to you once again that I am not talking about these groups that the state has an obligation to provide, there we can compromise and not provide them, but with what is one civil servant in a more privileged state than the others under a contract that pays their social security? I think this is a legitimate issue, and we need to put it to a debate, discuss it and make a decision on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u320	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Before we vote, Minister Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u321	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Because it's deep here, it's really about shifting financial layers, and decisions have to be clear. What I'm saying, let's listen outside of populism and that we have to give everything to everyone and so on. And in what Dr. Ademov suggests and in what Doctors Pavlov and Shishkov offer, that is, one related to the possibility that unemployed people from the family are provided with some percentage and the idea that the state provides only for social reasons and not for others, because some of the incomes for the people of whom the gentlemen Pavlov and Shishkov speak are for example 2,000. lv. The Director of the Ministry's Directorate, which I have the honour of leading, gets about that much. That is, there is no reason for us to continue to believe that these people should not be provided. These two things are connected. However, the possibility of really socially weak, seeking employment, by a clear criterion, we are not talking here about those who live to receive social benefits, so they are born and so they die, but it is about the possibility of releasing state expenditure, budgetary expenditure on civil servants and other categories of high income and of transferring it to really needy ones. My request is that this be part of an additional conversation at all about health insurance and supervision, as we agreed, and the status of employees in the Casa, and the powers that these employees have because there are numerical changes here. You say, "What gives the national statistics." I've got the latest NRA readings that say different numbers. Last year both agencies submitted even different figures, that is, we are making the exact calculation with the absolute understanding that both your proposal and the proposals of Shishkov and Pavlov and what Mr. Bajraktarov said are meaningful things. Let me also have this commitment to such an initial working group immediately after the adoption of any kind of this Law and submit together without talking about whether we are one of those or those because these are reasonable proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u322	The debate is closed. We're going to vote on § 10. First, I will put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Georgi Kuchukov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 116 MPs: 26, against 57, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. The proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Devdet Chakarov will put it to the vote with the editorial amendment made in this section. 9, after the budget which is financed, instead of the text, it is ensured that the state budget is recorded, if it is not provided on another basis, at the expense of the State budget. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Kardzhaliev, Ademov and Chakarov with the amendment made by Mr. Ademov in the Chamber. In general, this text is not supported by the Commission. They voted 118 MPs: 27, against 45, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the MP EMIL RAINOV and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. We vote. They voted 120 MPs: 28 against 62, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Valentin Pavlov and Dimitar Shishkov. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 125 MPs: 34 against 18, abstention 73. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 10. We vote § 10 by importer. 125 MPs voted: 96, against 23, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Mr. Tarnovalyski, you're in for a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u323	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! I voted against § 10 because I do not agree to give indulgences to the state to be an outstanding payer as a solidarity insurance provider and to citizens. This text legally guarantees the privileged position of the state by 2026, although the state is in debt to the health system not only by not paying the full amount of the health insurance contributions due, but also by the precedent for our new history debt with the committed, nationalised nearly 2 billion. lv. in 2010 from the money for health of the correct Bulgarian health insured persons who money to this day has not been returned to the health system. What are we going to tell people with this text that we are voting on? What we say to ordinary health insured persons who fall and, in certain cases, do not have the opportunity to pay their health contributions, we will change your deadline, you will already pay back for five years, but, you see, the state and the employees it provides and who receive far higher remuneration will be in this privileged position for the next 10 years. We cannot support this, and for these reasons we have not supported this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u324	Thank you. Mr. Tasco Ermenkov, second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u325	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Much of the reasons why I voted against I put them in my reply to Mr. Bayraktarov. It is really about an uneven adoption of a decision that separates the state from its citizens, saying that the state has more rights or less obligations than the ordinary citizen. This is a solution which, like the entire Law so far, leads to the making of people of some with pó rights and others with less rights. This is a solution that ultimately damages the Cashier as such, as it does not provide income in it. I'm very surprised at an explanation like this: that's how much the state could afford, that's why it's going to pay. Guys, does anybody ask the average guy if he can pay his health insurance and how much he can pay? Nobody asked him. They give it to him as an obligation and he pays for it. I do not see how the state should differ from that in order to be more privileged. That is why I voted against... because I cannot be an accomplice in setting dividing lines between citizens and a state and in encouraging citizens not to fulfil their obligations, because the state gives them this bad example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u326	Is there a third negative vote? I won't. Procedure Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u327	Madam President, I would like to withdraw the proposal that has been made by me and Dr. Valentin Pavlov concerning § 11 and 12 which are related, and these texts are laid down in the future Law on Medical Institutions, which we are going to consider.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u328	Does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u329	What does the Minister have to do with this? What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u330	Please don't interfere with the MP who's talking, colleagues. [[Replications from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hassan Ademov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u331	Since we have made the adjustments made by you in the Commission and by the other political parties, this text is enshrined in the Law on Medical Institutions, considering everything you have said.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u332	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u333	By the way, I'm withdrawing our proposals that...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u334	Until the end of the Law on all texts. In all texts Mr. Shishkov and Mr. Pavlov withdraw their proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u335	Under Paragraph 11, there is a proposal from the MP Georgi Kyuchukov and a group of MPs: In § 11 t. 3 et c. 4 to drop out. In §11, item 14 shall be deleted from the envisaged new art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov: In § 11 to drop the item. 2, p. 3, p. 4 et c. 12. The Commission does not support the proposal. The proposal of the MP Dimitar Shishkov has been withdrawn to the Commission. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs: The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1. The proposal has been withdrawn under paragraph 1. 2 et c. 3. Proposal of the National Representative Emil Raynov and a group of MPs: The following changes shall be made in § 11: 1. 2 s is out; 2. t. 3 s is out; 3. t. 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal (a) the creation of a new para is removed from its content. 4 a (b) the newly created para. 5 becomes a new para. 4 and the figure 4 t.r.s. 5-10 becomes respectively i.e. 3-8; 5. 11 and so on. 12 sssssssssssssssssssss; 6. 13 and so on. 14 are respectively listed in Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009. 9 and so on. 10. The Commission does not support the proposal. The proposal of the MPs Dimitar Shishkov and Valentin Pavlov has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Vili Lilkov: The following amendments shall be made in § 11: (a) c. 6 in para. 10 words are held annually by a mandatory centralised negotiation of concessions and are replaced by a...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (b) c. 8, para. 13 words are annually conducted by a mandatory centralised agreement of concessions and are replaced by a...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (c) c. 13, para. 19 words are held annually by a mandatory centralised agreement of concessions. They can be replaced by a concession holder. (d) point 14 to be reported. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 in the text before t. 1 the words "Payment' for' shall be replaced by "Payment'. 2. In paragraph 2: (a) in the first sentence, the word "supplied' is deleted; (b) the second sentence is amended as follows: the package is basic and additional and is determined by a regulation of the Minister of Health, updated once a year, by 31 October of the year concerned. 3. Alinea 3 is amended as follows: With the regulation under para. 2 The criteria for determining diseases for which home treatment NHIF pays in full or in part medicinal products, medical devices and diet food for special medical purposes are also laid down. 4. A new para is being created. 4 and 5. The list of diseases referred to in paragraph 4 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3 shall be determined by a decision of the Supervisory Board of the NHIF in accordance with the criteria laid down in the regulation under para. 2 which is promulgated in the Official Journal. (5) All changes to the list under para. 4 which provide for an increase in the costs of the NHIF for medicinal products, medical devices and dietary foods for special medical purposes shall not enter into force earlier than the amendment of the NHIF budget law for the year concerned or the entry into force of the NHIF budget law for the following financial year. 5. Alinea 8 is canceled. 6. Paragraph 10 is amended as follows: For medicinal products for which the value paid by the NHIF is calculated by grouping in which no medicinal products of other Marketing Authorisation Holders are involved, as well as those with a new international non-proprietary name included or applied for inclusion in the Positive Drug List under art. 262, para. 6, p. 1 of the Act on medicinal products in human medicine, NHIF and holders of a marketing authorisation or their authorised representatives annually conduct mandatory centralised negotiations of concessions under conditions, under order and by criteria defined by the regulation under para. 9. 7. Paragraph 11 is amended as follows: The agreed discount under para. 10 shall be distributed between the NHIF and the health insured persons by criteria and by order defined by the ordinance under para. 9. 8. Paragraph 13 is amended as follows: For medicinal products for health activities under art. 82, para. 2, p. 3 of the Health Act NHIF and holders of a marketing authorisation or their authorised representatives annually conduct mandatory centralised negotiations of concessions under conditions, in accordance with and according to criteria laid down by the regulation under para. 9. 9. In para. 14 words................................................................................. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of 10. In para. 15 A sentence second is created: The terms and arrangements for the conclusion of individual contracts contain: 1. the conditions to be met by retailers of medicinal products and the order to conclude contracts with them; 2. the rights and obligations of the parties to the contracts; 3. the arrangements for carrying out the activities of retailers with medicinal products; 4. the criteria for the quality and accessibility of the activities under point 4. 3; 5. documentation and accountability; 6. the obligations of the Parties to the information provision and exchange of information; 7. the types of sanctions for breach of contracts, as well as the order for their imposition. 11. In para. 17 the words the package is replaced by the words the package is replaced by the words the package is replaced by the words the package is replaced by the words the package is replaced by the words the package is replaced by the words the package is replaced by the words the package is replaced by the package is replaced by the words the package is replaced by the words the package is replaced by the 12. In para. 18 the words the "package' shall be replaced by the "package'. 13. Paragraph 19 is amended as follows: The National Health Insurance Fund and the holders of a Marketing Authorisation or their authorised representatives shall annually conduct mandatory centralised negotiations of concessions for medicinal products applicable to the treatment of malignancies paid in hospital care outside the value of the medical services provided for which the value paid by the NHIF is calculated by grouping in which no medicinal products of other holders of a Marketing Authorisation are involved, as well as those with a new international non-proprietary name included or for which an application for inclusion in the Positive Drug List under art. 262, para. 6, p. 2 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. The conditions, procedures and criteria for the payment of medicinal products and for the negotiation of concessions shall be determined by the ordinance under para. 9. 14. They're creating an al. 20, 21, 22 and 23: After the conclusion of the negotiation under para. 10, 13 and 19 contracts shall be concluded with holders of authorisations for the use of the medicinal products concerned or with their authorised representatives. The agreed concessions are binding for the duration of the contracts and cannot be amended in such a way as to increase the costs of the NHIF. (21) Medicinal products under para. 10, 13 and 19 for which no concessions are agreed shall not be paid by the NHIF. (22) The agreed concessions under para. 10, 13 and 19 could not be lower than agreed concessions in the previous year. (23) The performers of medical care shall not be able to purchase medicinal products under para. 19 at prices higher than the prices obtained as a result of the agreed discounts under para. 19............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u336	I'm opening the debate under § 11. I ask the Members of the National Assembly, who wish to take part, to give a sign of this. Mr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u337	Madam President, honourable Members! It is obvious that the expenditure on medicines of the National Health Insurance Fund must be controlled and it must be controlled strictly. There is perhaps the greatest leakage of funds and the experience through this Law to obtain discounts from the prices offered is something that we must support. Our proposal to this article relates to the newly created para. 21. Generally speaking, the point of this article is that these medicines for which no discount is obtained will not be paid by public funds. That's right, but there are also exceptions. All those involved in practical medicine know that there are so-called orfandraks. It's the orphan medicine. These drugs don't have an analogue. Taking advantage of this, producer companies can safely not give discounts to the National Health Insurance Fund. Honestly, if I were a manager, I would never just give up because there's no one to replace me on the market, and these drugs are vital to treating patients. In my opinion, the absolutation of this mechanism will deprive patients of the necessary medical treatment and therefore the decision whether a particular drug should be paid with public funds should be the result of a complex assessment of effectiveness, an extension of the duration and quality of life, safety, the risk of the disease and the importance of the disease to society, the availability of alternatives and other criteria. The discount should not only be absoluteised as the only criterion for payment or not of a drug. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u338	- What's the line? I won't. I give the floor to Mr. Turnover. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Please, colleagues, do not engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u339	Dear colleagues, Madam President! We from BSP left Bulgaria categorically stated that we will not support and disagree with the division of packages into basic and additional.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u340	We get that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u341	Once again, we will not support and do not support.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u342	That was the previous paragraph, colleague, you got your papers mixed up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u343	Please do not call from the site, you will have the opportunity to replicate the MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u344	We are opposed to transferring powers from the Ministry of Cassation to determine medicines for home treatment. The proposals made contradict the functions of the Minister of Health as a body for the management of the national health system. The pharmaceutical policy is part of the state health policy of the Republic of Bulgaria and is implemented by the Ministry of Health. The Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund has key functions in the cost of health insurance funds for health insurance payments in accordance with the health policy carried out by the State in the face of the same Ministry. The adoption of such a proposal is linked to a serious conflict of interest in my opinion. It is not appropriate for the paying body to determine the list of diseases for which it will pay.. I mean the medicinal products to be paid and which is part of the country's drug policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u345	First line, Mrs. Manolova. Are you irregular again, Mrs. Manolova? [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u346	Honourable Members, Madam President! I am speaking in the form of a reply, given the intention of the majority to end this debate and I will make a concrete proposal. We from BSP left Bulgaria have proposed t. 2 in the final text to be dismissed. I suggest that you vote on an alternative proposal if this is not supported, namely the regulation which will determine which diseases are included in the basic and which additional package, be issued not by the Minister of Health, but by the Council of Ministers, and I will tell you why. Because as soon as citizens realize that their diseases are in the extra package, and in January and February next year they realize that they will have to pay double, it will certainly cause colossal trouble to the government, which is broadcast by this parliamentary majority. On the other hand, we are worried that the prime minister is trusting the health minister, who may be in doctor's manner bribing him with a bottle of whiskey, and this is clouding his sober judgment on how far it will go with splitting the packages. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Therefore, I propose that the package and the definition of diseases in both packages be done through an act of the Council of Ministers. Reference: Last week, Minister Goranov suddenly found out that Moskov had decided to privatize part of the hospitals, to finish what his guru Kostov started, and this happened unexpectedly enough. If the Council of Ministers is committed in advance to drawing up this regulation, it will save itself a lot of trouble similar to those in February 2013.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u347	What exactly are you suggesting? At what point?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u348	I suggest the words of the Minister of Health...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u349	Where is that thing?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u350	In § 11, t. 2
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u351	In § 11, the Commission's version: The package is basic and additional and is determined by the Minister of Health's Regulation.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You're suggesting to be...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u352	I propose that the expression "the Minister of Health" be replaced by "the Council of Ministers" so that the Council of Ministers, who will take full responsibility for the reform of Moskov, will have the opportunity to influence the division of diseases, respectively what people will pay and what they will not.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u353	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. In essence, you made a statement. That was a statement, not a line to your colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u354	Yeah, but I was forced to because they were gonna end the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u355	Yeah, which I'm very understanding about. Any other MPs? Mr. Bayraktarov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u356	Thank you, Madam President. I didn't mean to speak, but since Mrs. Manolova practically wants to edit the text proposed by me and my colleagues from the Patriotic Front, I can't help but think about it. Dear Mrs. Manolova, I just want to make you think for a moment. If the regulation is drawn up by the Minister of Health, you will at least know who to take responsibility from. Don't think that we didn't mean it when we proposed this text either. Moreover, if you had read carefully, we have asked, and this text has been unanimously adopted by the Committee on Health, this regulation can be updated at maximum once a year until 31 October, with which we stop the possibility of corruption practices, not accidentally. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]] At least we're trying, colleague Bojinov. At least we're trying, unlike the inability and the inability to do it, but at least we're trying something to do. We have therefore put a text on the Minister of Health to bear its responsibility and tomorrow, when you stand up, to turn around and say: Why so, Minister Moskov, you introduced and made such a provision? Otherwise, you include the collective body called the Council of Ministers, and I ask you, from whom will you take responsibility of the collective body? I advise you to withdraw your offer because it is not good. It's not good, believe me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u357	The line, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u358	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, do you have any idea what this regulation will contain? Do you know what the Minister of Health will include in the regulation? Yes, it is true that such a regulation is logical after the legislator has written in the Law to have, then to draw it up, but we will vote on a text that sets the Minister's commitment to setting criteria for determining the diseases for which home treatment NHIF pays in full or in part the medicinal products, and we are actually leaving everything in the hands of the Minister. Do you know what will possibly be included in this regulation to convince us that we must support these texts? While this is happening once a year on your proposal, October, these criteria will nevertheless determine diseases that Minister Moskov will decide. I personally doubt his impartiality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u359	Second line, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u360	Honourable Members, Madam President, Dear Mr. Bajraktarov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u361	How are we on the map, Mrs. Manolova? There's no map. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u362	There's a philosophical school that has a basic motto: We don't know if we know, but we're looking! Apparently Minister Moskov is a follower of agnostics and in his searches it will surely come to the point that someone should be responsible if his search crashes. As we are of the opinion that the responsibility for the health reform is not to be left in the hands of the Minister reformer and his lunacy and searches, so we insist that the Council of Ministers decide on this so important decision, the meaning of which Bulgarian citizens will be treated free of charge and who will pay for the treatment. Surely the responsibility extends beyond the fragile shoulders of Minister Moskov and will lie on the entire government, including the prime minister, who has recently noticed that he has a bad habit of trusting this minister. The Minister has a tendency to bribe him in different ways...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u363	No specifics, Mrs. Manolova!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u364	Deja vu!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u365	... in this extremely important work, namely whether health care will be paid or available, or some Bulgarian citizens will pay. We therefore insist that the Council of Ministers be informed in advance and take part in dividing the packages into basic and additional ones. For reference, I will read you two sentences from the Reformation Government Program.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u366	It's off the subject, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u367	The health problems of the nation are problems of the future and the fate of the state which the Council of Ministers is dealing with. So let the Council of Ministers take responsibility for dividing the package into a basic and additional one.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u368	Thank you. The hole is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u369	Thank you, Madam President. In a gentleman's spirit, I'll answer the lady first. At least the conversation became philosophical and we will have to proceed to the four laws of materialistic dialectics. One of these four laws is the Denial Law. From this point of view, dear Mrs. Manolova, you have very well understood that what you are proposing is not the best proposal and in no way could you disprove me with your reply. I'm done with my answer and the philosophical theme. To my colleague, Mr. Yankov. Colleague Iankov, if you had read the proposals we have made, you would see that they are much more radical than what we have finally cleared up with all colleagues from the Health Commission. Why did we act pragmatically? Because our proposals were the main and additional package to be with Appendix 1 and Appendix 2. Then you personally would, Mr. Yankov, who I assume you don't have a hal-haber from medicine. [[Elevator bell dings]] , determine who the list is. I would have been very interested in you defining this list of diseases. I can serve several types of diseases and then ask you if you know what these diseases are at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u370	Don't, Mr. Bayraktarov. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u371	I'm not gonna do it because it's gonna be incorrect. It is for this reason that we have proposed this option. Moreover, I suppose you are not denying the drafting of sub-normal acts, as are the regulations. That's what it's supposed to be, it's a procedure. In order to end this, you would understand that many of these diseases are included in the signed national framework contracts. So you can be sure...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u372	You're talking nonsense!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u373	But you can't get out of these framework contracts! What language should I explain it in?! It's pointless, but... that's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u374	Mr. Mihov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u375	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, seeing as what doctors have been for six hours now, all due respect to them, what lawmakers and parliamentarians we have, I'm embarrassed to go to the doctor. More like fear. I propose that we put an end to the debate on this paragraph and move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u376	A counteroffer? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 89 MPs: 77 against 9, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Mr. Georgiev's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u377	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria we want a half hour rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u378	Time off to 5:15 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u379	The Quaestors, invite the Members of Parliament to the Chamber, we shall proceed with the vote of § 11. Firstly, I am voting on the proposal of MP Georgi Kuchukov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. We are voting for an unsupported proposal. They voted 81 MPs: for 7, against 43, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov is not in favour of this proposal. They voted 97 MPs: for 6, against 61, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. The proposal of Mr. Shishkov and the second proposal of Dimitar Shishkov and Valentin Pavlov are withdrawn. Mr. Bajraktarov's proposal and group are generally supported by this. 1, p. Two and three are withdrawn. We are voting on the proposal of MP Emil Raynov and a group which the Commission does not support. Vote 95 MPs: 14 against 59, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Genov. I hope you don't want to re-vote all the texts that you failed to vote on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u380	Madam President, you have tired your colleagues of these points not only ours, but the rest of us. I see they're moving slowly after the break.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u381	Don't underestimate yourself. You've got more power than that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u382	Not everyone was able to vote, so I suggest a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u383	It's a re-vote. They voted 103 MPs: 14 against 64, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Willy Lilkov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 108 MPs: 20, against 44, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. In Paragraph 11, Mrs Manolova proposed in the version of the Commission. 2, para. 2 point (b) is, the package is basic and additional and is determined by a regulation of the Minister of Health and is the text of the Commission, it proposed to be by decree of the Council of Ministers. We are voting on Mrs. Manolova's editorial proposal. They voted 115 MPs: 19 against 72, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 11 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 110 MPs: 93 against 14, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u384	Paragraph 12? a proposal of the MPs Dimitar Shishkov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Willy Lilkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The proposal of the MP Dimitar Shishkov and Valentin Pavlov has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 12 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u385	The debate is open. The word wants Minister Moskov. Two minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u386	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I urge you, although the Commission's debates have led to the rejection of this proposal, the proposal of the Council of Ministers to be voted on and adopted. This is what we're talking about. That's what this text says. With the Transitional and Final Provisions in the Drug Act, we say that we begin to maintain every three years a reimbursive state, that is, we re-evaluate the effectiveness and pharmaco-economic effectiveness of a particular drug. We also say there that medicinal products for which no positive result of their application has been demonstrated under the relevant procedure are excluded from the positive list, i.e. the Cassata ceases to pay them. The specific proposal in art. 45a, with the Commission's negative opinion, but which is behind it, the Council of Ministers, is the holders of a marketing authorisation, i.e. excluded from the positive list, to pay for the treatment paid by the Casa for this treatment, proved through its pharmaco-economic analysis, to pay its value from the moment of the adoption of the Law, i.e. the money that the Casa gave for this medicine in our contributions. This has a serious disciplinary effect on the pharmaceutical industry. At the moment, the pressure is aimed at the pharmacological industry generating a positive opinion in doctors how good it is to write their medicine. It is written regardless of whether it corresponds to the exact indication, whether it is the correct drug, is replaced by another drug that has acted, you can see from the analysis of the medicine costs of the Cashier. A text in which the industry will return the money that we as depositors have put in and the Cassata has given for the preparation that has proven ineffective within the framework of the pharmaco-economic study will make the industry control the process and these things be given only when needed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u387	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Members of parliament who wish to take part in this text? Dr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u388	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, this is indeed a very interesting proposal. I agree with you that when something is not effective, it is not rational, it should be stopped, money should be returned. But why, as we always say, are we on the verge of the ultimate effect? Let's see from the beginning! It's pretty much like with hospitals, we don't issue permits, we don't chase problems with hospitals. We do not ask the question here how the drug in question, based on what report, because the report, in order to pass this drug in the positive reimbursement committee, must have such therapeutic effectiveness. Let's see who leaked this drug. Why aren't we looking for the key, but we're running straight to punish the end? Let's turn the wagon around! Who let them go, how he let them go, he took responsibility. That's the point, Minister. We don't solve things in the bud, but we run after the consequences, which I think is the more complicated and non-working option. I think that in another World Bank report on drug policy, there are also such conclusions as how this committee works, what happens, that we need to fully review the functions in order to see the mechanism of medicines released to reimburs the casata. And there's nothing we do with this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u389	Mr. Kardzhaliev for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u390	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I will extend the scope of the debate, link it to § 41. Then I will not express myself where there is an explicit text: "Supports the reimbursement status of medicinal products every three years since their inclusion in the Positive Drug List. Why do I cover in a more global way? The theme of the so-called reimbursance status is controversial. I understand the minister's considerations, especially in what you said earlier, there is a rational element, there are arguments, but we know that on the basis of objective criteria the National Council assessed and reimbursed carry out cyclical monitoring of each product and its status. The introduction of the obligation, which is required on a proposal from the applicant, three years back, to be reimbursed, and the NHIF funds, in our opinion, are very difficult to implement. We have also highlighted these arguments in the Committee on Health. I am sure that some of the considerations why this proposal was adopted were precisely those arguments. This text, in our opinion, leads to two risks and that is why we propose to drop it. The first risk is related to the risk that the manufacturer will withdraw from the Bulgarian market. Secondly, the possibility and hypothesis of many legal proceedings attacking legal argumentation and appropriateness. For this reason, I am still convinced, despite the arguments of the Minister, who pointed them out a short time ago that this paragraph should be dismissed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u391	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Minister Moskov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u392	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There are many true arguments in what Mr. Raynov and Mr. Kardzhaliev said. The archipelago argument, however, is that the easiest, most seamless is regardless of the effectiveness of a drug The cassata to finance its discharge. That is, any mechanism, and this is exactly the kind of mechanism that disciplines, first, the pharmaceutical business and, secondly, gives the Cassata an instrument to change its policy on certain medicines, may have the difficulties involved, including what you say about lawsuits. But this is a mechanism that is unlike now when such a mechanism does not exist. That is, if we are all convinced that part of drug policy is essentially not aimed at guarding good speculation or guarding the public resources of medicines, but rather a function of marketing or any other effort of the pharmaceutical business, then this must be put to an end. Because the steepest increasing curve of Cassa's expenses is for medicines without having the appropriate therapeutic effect as a consequence of human health. Whether anyone is in danger of coming out of a recognised inefficiency of the drug according to the pharmacoeconomic model, whether he will withdraw this drug or not, it does not matter. But let's just say that this is not something that happens in Bulgaria for the first time. Let's say NICE, which is a reference to the English institution that deals with evaluation, something of the type of our Council, but much more powerful. He does this sort of practice and it really has led to a disciplinary effect there. That is to say, this is one of the mechanisms for holding and holding, on the one hand, the costs of medication there, they are unnecessary, and, on the other hand, is also disciplined on the way and behavior of the industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u393	Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I shall put to the vote the Commission's motion to reject § 12. They voted 107 MPs: 99, against 4, abstention 4. The Commission's proposal to reject § 12 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u394	According to § 13 there is a proposal from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov, § 13 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MPs Emil Raynov and a group of MPs is The Commission does not support the proposal. The proposal of the MPs Dimitar Shishkov and Valentin Pavlov has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u395	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposals of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov and Emil Raynov and a group of MPs to drop § 13, which are not supported by the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 19 against 74, abstention 22. The proposals are not supported. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 12. Vote 113 MPs: 95 against 16, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u396	Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov § 14 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Emil Raynov and a group of MPs: § 14 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u397	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov, as well as of the MPs Emil Raynov and a group of MPs, the proposal which is not supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. They voted 113 MPs: 20, against 72, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 13. Please, voting mode. They voted 102 MPs: 91, against 10, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u398	According to § 15 there is a proposal from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov § 15 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Emil Raynov and a group of MPs: § 15 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15 which becomes § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u399	Statements on this paragraph? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposals of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov, as well as the proposals of the MPs Emil Raynov and a group of MPs to drop § 15, unsupported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 116 MPs: 23, against 71, abstention 22. The proposals have not been accepted. I am now voting on the proposal in the text of the importer for § 15, which becomes § 14. Please, voting mode. They voted 102 MPs: 91 against 11, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u400	According to § 16 there is a proposal from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov in § 16 to drop the item. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MPs Emil Raynov and a group of MPs in § 16 t. 2 out, t. 1 becomes a content of § 16. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u401	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote first the proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov, which is not supported by the Commission, as well as by the MPs Emil Raynov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposals. Please vote. They voted 103 MPs: 11 against 71, abstention 21. The proposals have not been accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposals for § 16, which shall become § 15. They voted 111 MPs: 100 against 11, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u402	Under § 17 there is a proposal from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov in § 17 to drop the item. 2. Proposal of the National Representative Emil Raynov and a group of MPs: Paragraph 17 shall make the following changes: ............................................... 1, b. A new item is being created. 3a, the word "buying' is replaced by the word "paying'; 2. t. 2 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the depositor for § 17, which becomes § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u403	Statements? I won't. First, I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov, not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 108 MPs: 14 against 69, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the next proposal of MP Emil Raynov and a group of MPs, also not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 112 MPs: 19 against 65, abstention 28. The proposal of the National Representative Emil Raynov is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission proposal, the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 16. Please vote. Vote 117 MPs: 98, against 18, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u404	Proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov: In § 18 in the new Article, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The word "buying' is replaced by the word "paying'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Emil Raynov and a group of MPs: seventh is out of the question. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18, which shall become § 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u405	Statements? Here you go, mate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u406	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We came out of the paragraphs with purchase and payment, and with basic and additional packages, and now I have taken the floor to support our proposal to drop the offer of importers. Our motives and the request for this proposal of the Minister to be dismissed are several, but it seems that the most important thing is that it imports completely new and inappropriate with the principles of the philosophy of compulsory health insurance principle A contract is an agreement between two or more parties that establishes or defines their rights and obligations. In this case, the contract for prices and volumes is an illegal paradox because it actually defines only the obligations of the Health Insurance Fund to provide funds for certain volumes, and the Bulgarian Medical Union does not have the obligation to comply with the volumes indicated in the contract or to participate in their regulation with relevant responsibilities. Here, once again, it is necessary to state in the adoption of this bill that statutory principles are violated. Once again, it is about the principle of equality when using medical care. The persons provided for where the need for medical care has occurred after the volumes are exhausted will find themselves in an uneven position against those who received medical care before the volumes are exhausted. Here again comes the question of freedom of choice by the regularly insured persons of the medical care provider. Should I go back to splitting up a basic and additional package, or have we already spoken all about it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u407	No, don't come back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u408	Come on, you've already accepted that we will share the packages as basic and additional, but after we run out of volumes agreed in national framework contracts, the people with diseases from the basic package of health activities, which I hope you will not deny that at least it is guaranteed by the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, the health insurance people what will they do? What about the hospital hospitals to which patients with diseases from the main package have turned, what will they do? Perhaps they will return patients diagnosed with exhausted volumes agreed in national framework contracts. In this regard, I believe that the adoption of this text will violate the fundamental rights of the health-insured persons established in art. 35 of the Health Insurance Act, namely any health insurance person has the right to receive medical care within the scope of the basic package of health activities guaranteed by the National Health Insurance Fund budget, to choose a doctor from the medical institution who has concluded a contract with the Health Insurance Fund and the Need, and the law does not bind the exercise of those rights with the possibilities of the health insurance institution to pay the medical care or with the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Act for the year in question. Members of Parliament, take into account what I have said and vote on our proposal § 18 to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u409	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u410	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This text is really insane and stupid, and that's why it has to be dropped. Understand, medical care cannot be negotiated with absolute accuracy. How will the National Health Insurance Fund buy only this amount of medical care? Well, if 100 hernias are agreed, and you get 101, what do we do then?! This is a text which limits the constitutionally guaranteed right of every Bulgarian citizen to free medical care. Therefore, do not vote for this text! The text is insane! Limited to citizens' rights. You just can't vote on things like that. Please understand very much what is proposed for a vote, understand the content and do not support this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u411	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Replies to Mr. Georgiev's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov, not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 110 MPs: 19 against 69, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the next proposal by MP Emil Raynov and a group of MPs, also not supported by the Commission. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Please be quiet in the hall. Vote 109 MPs: 28 against 65 abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission for § 18, which shall become § 17. They voted 107 MPs: for 86, against 19, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u412	Dear colleagues, I understand that it annoys you when the opposition takes the floor here and constantly shouts. I understand this thing, but there's no way we're in a parliamentary republic, there's opposition, there's government. Be so kind as to listen to each other. [[Heckling]] Once again, I would like to emphasise that I voted against this paragraph for a single reason, which I repeat repeatedly here that we are once again introducing a restriction on people. We introduce restrictions that are related to the restrictions on the payment of the paths. What happens when the money's really gone? When there are really contracts planned or concluded, as colleague Georgiev said, for 100 hernias, and it was 101. What are we gonna do with the 101st? Are we treating Angina there? I beg you very much, when we have our own opinion on this matter, be so kind, at least the upbringing requires that we listen to each other. Everything else you do seems to me to be, first of all, rude, and second of all, we kind of get it out of our system. We don't care what happens to the state and health care. Listen to a different opinion! That's why we're here, that's why we're opposition! Yes, we can't impose our opinion on you. You have your policy, it is clear what it is, it is not in the interests of the ordinary person, carry it out, but at least give us the opportunity to speak our minds, and we will continue to say it and we will continue to protect people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u413	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mrs. Manolova, the negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u414	Honourable Members, Mr President, in their impatience to adopt this Law, I do not know if you are even reading and considering what texts we are adopting. How does the expression "National Health Insurance Fund" sound to you? It's a ridiculous law with ridiculous terminology. But terminology itself is not dangerous, but because of the content it contains. For the term "buying" it became clear that the Minister and his supervisory board from which hospitals will buy and which hospitals will not buy, i.e. who will work, who will fail. Since the volume of this purchase is also limited to a certain volume of medical assistance, i.e. the Supervisory Board is so smart that it can assess exactly how much medical assistance it needs to purchase. There are plenty of fortune-tellers and fortune-tellers who know what the Bulgarian citizens will get sick for the whole next year.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u415	Oh, no! That was Tanya Andreeva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u416	And as soon as they buy or make a miscalculation, I'm telling you what's going on. I saw him yesterday in Shumen. [[Greece and lines from GERB.]] Go see the most modern technique idle, because the assessment of the National Health Insurance Fund, respectively of the Regional Fund, was not very accurate in terms of purchase. Here Mr. Bajraktarov talked about the most modern technologies and treatment abroad. We have them in Bulgaria, there are specialists, there are techniques, but there are no executives, there are no responsible lawmakers. Because you accept absurd things on the back of the Bulgarian citizen. I understand the members of GERB want to see how far the reformist fervour and power of the health minister can unfold. But that's what your constituents will suffer while he does his experiments. And in the end, you will pay the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u417	The weather, Mrs. Manolova. Third negative vote, Dr. Raynov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u418	My fellow Members, I voted against this bill from both the first member of this bill and to the end, against the replacement of the terminology. While at the beginning we were saying.. I recall, because you probably quickly forget that this way the National Health Insurance Fund will probably be used, there is an opportunity, as a bat against some less susceptible private institutions, because some will buy, but others will not buy, and all the time during the past two weeks we have been lost a small part, a small puzzle from the mosaic, but since last week we know something else that the National Health Insurance Fund will already be used as a privatisation tool. By not buying services from public hospitals, this automatically means that the minister will remove them from the Prohibition List and release them to privatisation. So, honourable Members, there is no way we can support such a thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u419	Thank you, Mr. Raynov. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u420	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u421	Statements? I can't see. Please vote on the text supported by the Commission............................................................................................. They voted 99 MPs: 92 against 7, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u422	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, I request a re-vote procedure. I'm sorry, you just didn't read my console. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u423	Please, colleagues. We're wasting more time with lines from the hall. Revoting § 19. Please vote. They voted 111 MPs: 91 against 19, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u424	Under Paragraph 20, there is a proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Shishkov to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov § 20 to be dropped. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the National Representative Willy Lilkov to drop § 20. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20 which shall become § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u425	Statements? Mr. Kardzhaliev. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u426	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this text of our proposal has not been adopted by the Committee on Health, but it is worth the national representation once again to hear the regulations or exactly what it is about. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 56, para. 3 of the Health Insurance Act, which concerns text from art. 262 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. This status quo enabled the receipt of medicines from patients who were treated as non-systemic, such as emergencies, in cases where the disease and, in particular, the medicines did not fall under Annex 1 to the Positive Drug List. At the time, on the basis of an argument based on medical opinion, a request was written to the Director of the Health Insurance Fund and the Director of the Health Insurance Fund resolved in these exceptional, non-systemic cases, respectively the granting and payment of this treatment by the NHIF. The arguments of the importer were such that this clause was very rarely used and was therefore worth dropping. However, I urge you to accept our text, namely to reject this article, because it is not only us and our colleagues in the Reformation Block that offer this, but also all patient organizations, even the guils of the perpetrators of medical services in Bulgaria. So I suggest you support our text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u427	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u428	Honourable Members, Madam President! I am speaking to support Dr. Shishkov's proposal to drop the proposal of the Council of Ministers on the question. 3 of art. 56. I really do not understand why one of the most competent speakers on the topic of health reform by the parliamentary majority has made a proposal which has been ruthlessly rejected by the Health Commission. I am really surprised, Dr. Shishkov, how you failed to convince Dr. Moskov that this text he proposes should not be accepted. You probably know better than I do that cases where a patient is required to be given a drug, partially paid or entirely by the Health Insurance Fund, in cases where it is not included in the Positive List, are negligible. I'm talking about the number of these cases. This happens with the appropriate medical justification and, as it is correctly written in this text, it is dealt with in exceptional cases. This is, in my opinion, the last hope of some Bulgarian citizen who has a rare disease for which the treatment is not provided for in the so-called Positive List and in cases where he is poor enough, and the Bulgarian citizens are poor enough not to be able to afford an expensive medicine, this is his only chance. I really support a sensible proposal from a doctor in the group of reformers, which gives me some hope that this reform, which really seems absurd in the way it was written, promoted and accepted in the plenary, is still sitting behind it and people who have their wits, figuratively speaking, and who really have some concern for the poor Bulgarians who sometimes have the unfortunate malchance to get sick of a disease that requires expensive treatment, which is not intended for payment by the Casa. Moreover, I really have no explanation for the reasons why the Council of Ministers should propose this text. It's been around for over 10 years. Correct me, maybe more than 10 years. What made you right now a text that is in the interests of the poor Bulgarians to be removed from the Health Insurance Act? I suppose that Dr. Shishkov will be correct enough to present to us the arguments of Minister Moskov, who is clearly already bored with the debates in the plenary and at least to be clear, to know what to explain to the people: why does GERB and this majority take away their last chance at treatment when they are suffering from a severe disease with expensive, unpredictable treatment for payment? Because the responsibility, whether you laugh at the Minister reformer or not, but ultimately the responsibility will be mainly of the MPs from GERB. Because this discussion and this vote, you have no doubt that we will bring it down to the attention of the Bulgarian citizens, including those who have the last hope in this text, which you are currently just so lightly repealing? So I expect Dr. Shishkov to explain to us what the ingenious motives of the reformer minister are to ask for the annulment of this text and perhaps persuade or dissuade the reformist majority not to support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u429	Mr. Ermenkov will replicate Mrs. Manolova. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov. What do you disagree with Mrs. Manolova's statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u430	You'll hear.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u431	I'm waiting, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u432	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Manolova, I am really glad that you show that we are a constructive opposition that is ready to support... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] There will be one, don't worry! Which is also ready to support the reformers, who have actually nominated the minister and which is really nice. The only thing I couldn't understand, however, was why you didn't do it to make it quite clear that we really support their proposals................. why you discriminated against Assoc. Willy Lilkov and you didn't support his proposal in this sense? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u433	Second line? I won't. For the doppelganger, Mrs. Manolova. [[Heckling]] There are others discriminated against by the report. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u434	Alas, you're right, Mr. Ermenkov. I did not properly treat the MP Mr. Lilkov and I apologize from the parliamentary platform for not mentioning his proposal. I admit, my motives were quite superficial. I just felt that Dr. Shishkov is closer to Dr. Moskov and somehow his ability to influence the minister's final decision is bigger, but things are not usually what they seem, including in the relations between the health minister and the prime minister, his beloved minister, who regularly brings him a bottle of whiskey, will ultimately cost him the first vote of mistrust.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u435	Mrs. Manolova! Mrs. Manolova, I am giving you an official warning several times in today's debate you are using expressive means that do not belong to them from this tribune. There's media for that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u436	Madam President, are you suggesting that...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u437	You're in the duplicate procedure, not in the manner of keeping to address me. Proceed with the dot.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u438	I just took the liberty of quoting the Prime Minister, since you think his speeches are not consistent with good taste and good style...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u439	They're not on the subject! They're not on the subject, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u440	I expect this to be ultimately a matter of your relations with the Prime Minister, but I really insist that Dr. Shishkov explain from the parliamentary tribune, perhaps Dr. Lilkov, why their reasonable proposal was eventually rejected by both the Minister and the parliamentary majority. If you want, Mrs. Karayancheva can explain it, because she is among those who will vote against. [[Relations, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u441	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Dimitar Shishkov, Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov, Dzhevdet Chakarov and Willy Lilkov to drop § 20 by importer. The Commission does not support this proposal. It's identical, of all the MPs I mentioned. We are voting unsupported by the Commission for a proposal. Vote 112 MPs: 43, against 56, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. I put the Commission's proposal to vote in favour of the text of the importer for § 20, which becomes § 19. We vote § 20 by importer, supported by the Commission, with a new numbering. They voted 105 MPs: 80, against 21, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u442	Paragraph 21 "Proposition of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov in § 21 to drop the item. 2, p. 3 et c. 4. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Emil Raynov and a group of Members of the National Assembly in § 21, p. 2 b. (b) (a) (b) (i) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) It becomes a content of t. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Krasimir Petrov and Ruslan Toshev: .................................................................. Article 59, para. 11, p. 3 and 4 are deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Semir Abu Melih and Dimitar Petrov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimira Kovachka and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 59 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "s'/or "s' are replaced by a comma and finally added "s' by this law. 2. In para. 11: (a) in the text before t. 1 after the word "aid', a financial penalty as defined in the existing LDC is added or imposed; (b) c. 1 the words the package shall be replaced by the package and the words shall be replaced by the package; c) create t. 3 and 4: "3." in the case of systematic violation of the quality criteria for medical assistance regulated in national framework contracts; 4. in case of systemic frustration of patients from the medical activities performed related to the medical care provided, paid by the budget of the NHIF established under the regulation under art. 19th para. 7, p. 15 and following an assessment of the quality criteria for medical assistance regulated in the LDC and the identification of their breach. 3. The creation of para. 13: The Director of the Regional Health Insurance Fund concerned shall terminate the contracts with the medical aid contractors in the cases referred to in para. 11, p. 1 and 2, and in the cases under para. 11, p. 3 et c. 4 imposes a financial penalty in accordance with the existing LDC.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u443	Statements? In the manner of holding Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u444	Madam President, I take this procedure in the manner of conduct to point out to you that among our colleagues there are people who are not like me with age farsightedness who can see from the other end of the room what is written on the small dashboard. For this reason, we asked to see the results in groups. You kind of pointed at the white dashboard. I just want to ask you: you're not going to make a comment if you point it out any other time, and the whole group that we don't see is in front of the dashboard to see what's written there? That's why it's the big board, so when it's asked by group, it can be seen. In my opinion, this is a kind of disparaging attitude towards people who are shortsighted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u445	Mr. Ermenkov, you misread my gesture. I have made a sign to your colleagues who have taken a seat on the path, I will not name them and prevent the other MPs from following properly the way the MPs from the various parliamentary groups vote. I will address in writing the leadership of your parliamentary group, the MPs who, like me, have a problem with vision, to take the first lines in order to be able to properly monitor [[Applause from GERB, noise and lines from BSP LB]] How's the vote going? Are there any speeches on this paragraph? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u446	Should I go back for the map, or are you gonna time it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u447	Don't come back for the map, go ahead without it. Time Mrs. Manolova. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I'd suggest you keep the map next to the stenographers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u448	Honourable Members, Madam President! I speak to support myself in addition to our proposal, but also two other proposals made by MPs from the ruling majority, namely the proposals of Krasimir Petrov, Ruslan Toshev, Dr Krasimira Kovatchka and a group of MPs. This is what we're talking about. We've already found out that the Health Insurance Fund is going to buy medical care, and she's going to decide from whom to buy and from whom not to buy. In cases where she decides to buy medical care from certain hospitals, this text sets out the grounds in which the purchase and sale of medical care will be terminated, i.e. the contracts that have with the Casa certain hospitals will be terminated. It is disturbing that one of the reasons for terminating the purchase and sale of medical care is what is indicated in this point. 4 of the Minister's proposal, then supported by small modifications by the Health Commission, according to which the suspension of the purchase and sale of medical care will take place, note, on the basis of the patient's systemic frustration of the medical activities. This could perhaps contain some great meaning and some genius idea, if further in the texts we do not see a definition of both the systemic dissatisfaction and the satisfaction of the patient. We found out from the minister that the idea of patient satisfaction he had borrowed from the World Health Organization, read us here her report, but I don't know if the World Health Organization will look at him in confusion at the moment when he sees exactly what the minister is putting into the term "satisfaction of the patient." According to Minister Moskov, supported by MPs from the parliamentary majority, the patient's satisfaction is a coincidence between his expectations and his actual medical assistance. In other words, the reason to terminate the contract of a hospital with the Cassata, to say it more understandable, may also be the failure to match a patient's expectations with his medical care. As a condition, this does not coincide with the expectations to be achieved at least three times. You know, for a certain amount of pay, or let me say it softly, not to irritate the President's................... a number of patients will appear against certain incentives....... which will prove to be unnecessary after their stay in the hospital, as a result of which some hospitals will end up with terminated contracts.... the purchase of medical care from them will be stopped. Well, I ask: isn't this a good way to be hooked up to some health care facilities? The Minister's genius plan becomes clear, given his latest proposals in the Law on Medical Institutions, where he said to himself directly: hospitals will be privatized. So the scheme is this: first of all, we buy medical care, we decide from whom to buy it, then if the one we buy from does not behave well due to the lack of matching expectations for its behavior we stop buying, as a result of which he has no income, accumulated debts and eventually went bankrupt. And what happens? The hospital or other medical facility in question is on sale. Here, this is the genius plan, which is a pillar in the health reform of the respected Minister Moskov. I ask: are there really MPs who are ready to support such experiments with their voices and therefore to be responsible for this reform of the health minister? In my opinion, if you support this text, you will have an urgent need to buy some medical assistance at least from the Minister, respectively, to sell it to you, because in no other way can I explain why you would be responsible for this insanity with this vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u449	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 108 MPs: 21, against 61, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Emil Raynov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 106 MPs: 25, against 55, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Krasimir Petrov and Ruslan Toshev. The Commission does not support it. They voted 105 MPs: 31, against 38, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 21, which becomes § 20 in the version of the Commission for § 20 in the Commission report. They voted 118 MPs: for 96, against 22, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. There's a negative vote. Here you are, Mr. Georgiev, for the first negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u450	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted negatively because this is one of the texts that makes the directors of NHIF into bats in relation to medical institutions. As the talkers explained, for some he will be the most important mother, and for others he will be the stepmother. That's the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u451	It's more milky!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u452	That's right! And think about what we just voted on. Contracts will be broken if there is an overwrite in the activity, regardless of what the hypotheses under point are. 1 and 2. However, if the institution is allowed to systematically violate the criteria for quality medical care, we will let it act because it is one of ours. There people may die, they may be treated like junk, but we will tolerate this hospital care provided by certain relatives, not to tell who, hospitals. [[(Comments from GERB: Who? Who?]] That's what we voted for! Absolutely uneven text in relation to the various medical institutions. That's why I'm totally against it. And this Law that we accept, understand, will reach the voters and they will wonder at the crap that has been done in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u453	We're listening, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u454	According to § 22, there is a proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov, § 22 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u455	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Kardzhaliev, Ademov and Chakarov. The Commission does not support it. They voted 101 MPs: 14 against 61, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 22 which becomes § 21. They voted 102 MPs: 86 against 16, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u456	According to § 23, there is a proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov, § 23 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the Members of the National Assembly Emil Raynov and a group of Members of the National Assembly shall be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23 which shall become § 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u457	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Kardzhaliev, Ademov, Chakarov, Emil Raynov and a group of MPs from BSP left Bulgaria to drop § 23. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 107 MPs: 21, against 63, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the Commission's proposal to vote in favour of the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 22. They voted 105 MPs: for 86, against 19, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u458	Under § 24, there is a proposal of the MPs Semir Abu Melih and Dimitar Petrov. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal, which is reflected in its respective systematic position in § 7, item 7. 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u459	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 24, with its new numbering on the report......................................................................... We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 86 against 16, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u460	Proposal of the MPs Semir Abu Melih and Dimitar Petrov to create a new § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 64. 1 is amended supposed to Each person is entitled to receive a unique access code (CQM) to the personalised NHIF information system. The DQM shall be provided to the health insured person, respectively parent, guardian, trustee or authorised person, in paper form in a sealed envelope by his general practitioner against a receipt on a template approved by the Manager of the NHIF. The Managing Director of the NHIF organizes the provision of DQM for all health insured persons to general practitioners. The DQM may be issued again at the request of the insured person who pays the costs of its issuance. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u461	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Semir Abu Melih and Dimitar Petrov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 98 MPs: 17 against 39 abstention 42. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u462	Proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov § 25 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the Members of the National Assembly Emil Raynov and a group of Members of the National Assembly shall be The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u463	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs - identical, by Mr. Kardzhaliev, Ademov, Chakarov, EMIL RAINOV and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 103 MPs: 22, against 53, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the Commission's proposal to vote in favour of the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 24. Vote 100 MPs: 86 against 13, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u464	Proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov § 26 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Emil Raynov and a group of Members of The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u465	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the MPs Kardzhaliev, Ademov, Chakarov, Raynov and a group which the Commission does not support. They voted 108 MPs: 18, against 62, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 26, which becomes § 25. They voted 109 MPs: 94 against 15, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u466	Paragraph 27? a proposal of the MPs Semir Abu Melih and Dimitar Petrov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 72 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 3, 4 and 5: The interim control under para. 2 shall also be periodic for carrying out checks on complaints received by health insured persons in the cases referred to in art. 35, para. 2. (4) The complaints under para. 3 shall be submitted within 7 days of the establishment of any of the grounds under art. 35, para. 2. (5) The checks under para. 3 shall be carried out within one month of receipt of the complaint concerned and the results of the verification shall be notified to the applicant. 2. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 6. 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 7 and is amended as follows: The control of the implementation of the contracts for the award of medicinal products, medical devices and diet food for special medical purposes, paid in full or in part by the NHIF for home treatment in the territory of the country, shall be carried out by the persons referred to in para. 2 in accordance with the procedure laid down in the act under art. 45, para. 15 governing the terms and conditions for the conclusion of individual contracts for payment of medicinal products under art. 262, para. 6, p. 1 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. 4. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 8 and amended as follows: The conditions and procedures for carrying out the control under para. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 shall be determined by an instruction issued by the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u467	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. The proposals are generally supported. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 26 of the Commission report.................................................................................................... We are voting § 26 on the Commission report. Vote 112 MPs: 96, against 12, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u468	Paragraph 28 "A proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 73 para. 4 is amended as For the activities of financial inspectors, the detection of infringements, the challenge of findings, arbitration committees and the imposition of sanctions shall apply respectively the procedures under art. 74, para. Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). 75 and 76 on which the doctor-controllers and the dentists-controllers work.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u469	Statements? I won't. Voting mode. We are voting § 28, which becomes § 27 as amended by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 93 against 9, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u470	Under § 29, there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with Article 29. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 29, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 74 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 after the word "Securities" is added, and after the words "Medicians-Manufacturers" is added, "or dentists-controllers" is added; (b) c. 2 after the word "Securities" shall be added to the word "Securities"; (c) c. 4 after the word "Securities" is added. 2. Alinei 3 and 4 are amended as follows: In the event of infringement under paragraph 3 of this Article, the Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States and the other Member States of the infringement referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article. 1, t. 2-4 doctor-controller or dentist-controller draw up a protocol describing the established facts. The protocol is signed by a doctor-controller or dentist-controller. A copy of the minutes shall be made available to the verified person for signature and copies of it shall be sent to the Director of the relevant RHIF and to the relevant regional college of the word organisation of the doctors or dentists. (4) The person shall have the right to give a written opinion to the Director of the RHIF on the findings made by the doctor-controller or the dentist-controller within 7 days of the service of the minutes under para. 3. 3. The creation of para. 5. If the person is subject to the verification, he shall not give an opinion under para. 4 or his opinion does not contain any objections to the findings made by the doctor or dentist, the Director of the RHIF issued an order imposing a penalty.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u471	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 28 in the version of the Commission. Vote 109 MPs: 95 against 9, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u472	According to § 30, there is a proposal of the MP Georgi Kuchukov and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports in principle. Proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov, which the Commission supports. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which the Commission supports. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 30, which shall become § 29. Please take into account here a technical error in the report is § 29 and not § 30 in the final version. ........................ 29...................................................... New article shall be created. 75 and 76: Art. 75. (1) In cases where the person disputes the findings of the doctor-controller or the dentist-controller, the director of the RHIF within 7 days of receipt of the written opinion under art. 74, para. 4 sends the dispute to the arbitration panel. (2) The arbitration panel shall be composed of representatives of the RHIF, of the respective regional colleges of the word organizations of the doctors and dentists, of the relevant regional colleges of the word organizations of the Master Pharmacists and of the nurses, midwives and associated medical professionals. (3) The arbitration panel shall include, for each particular case, representatives of these advisory bodies which are relevant to the facts described and the findings made in the protocol of the doctor-controller or dentist-controller under art. 74, para. 3. (4) The number of representatives of the RHIF in the composition of each arbitration panel shall be equal to the total number of representatives of the word organizations under para. 2. (5) The establishment of an arbitration panel on a case-by-case basis shall be organised by the Director of the relevant RHIF and shall carry out its activities under the conditions and in accordance with the procedures laid down in the LDC as well as under the terms and conditions for the conclusion of individual contracts for payment of medicinal products under art. 262, para. 6, p. 1 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine under art. 45, para. 15. (6) The arbitration panel shall take a decision within one month of receipt of the file. Art. 76. (1) In the event that the arbitration panel confirms the findings of a doctor-controller or dentist, the penalties provided for in the contract between the RHIF and the medical or dental aid contractor shall apply. (2) The sanctions under para. 1 shall be imposed by order of the Director of the RHIF, which shall be issued within one month of notification by the arbitration panel of the Director of the RHIF, that the findings of the doctor-controller or the dentist-controller have been confirmed and shall be communicated to the person. (3) The penalties shall be subject to judicial appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u473	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u474	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, we only want to argue our proposal. The restoration of the Arbitration Commission is undoubtedly useful rehabilitation, but in the sense proposed by the importer, it is not effective, even in our opinion it would lead to confrontation. Namely, the old version, under the legislation, which was valid until the arbitration committees were abolished, the members were on a parite principle by the Bulgarian Medical and Dental Union and, on the other hand, the representative of NHIF. Now the importer offers the same, but plus one representative of the regional health inspection. This, in our opinion, would undermine the very meaning of the Arbitration Commission. This is why we propose that this representative of the regional health inspection should be dropped and thus restore the old authentic type of the Arbitration Commission. In this way, we believe that this Commission will be more effective. I hope, as in the Health Commission, that this proposal will be accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u475	Thank you, Mr. Kardzhaliev. A line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Here you are, Minister Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u476	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there is no doubt that the return of arbitration is a good text. The possibility to accept the Paristic beginning, as Mr. Kardzhaliev said, between representatives of the word organizations and the Casa, is actually an opportunity to block the work of these arbitrations.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u477	On trial after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u478	No, the idea is not to go to trial. The point of arbitration is to avoid the court.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u479	Then there won't be any.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u480	In this regard, let me just say that on a question addressed by the Ministry to the Bulgarian Medical Association, the Medical Union says that it accepts the texts and proposes to consider the inclusion of a seventh member in the arbitration committees. In other words, the term itself is ripe for the fact that it is good not to have parith, not mutually blocking in any case, but to have a seventh member of the Board, who in the proposal is representative of RZI. This is the proposal that the Council of Ministers is submitting. I'm asking you to reconsider once more.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u481	Thank you, Minister Moskov. We are going to vote on the Commission proposal for § 30, which becomes § 29. Voting mode. They voted 105 MPs: for 100, against 5, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u482	Under § 31, the Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u483	We are voting on paragraphs 30 and 31 on the Commission report. They voted 106 MPs: 99 against 7, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u484	According to § 33 there is a proposal from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov: The following amendments shall be made in § 33: (a) in art. 76c, para. 1 drop out: - the comma after the words - the words.... health inspections..................................................................................... (b) in art. 76c, para. 2 drop out: - the comma after the words - the words................................................................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Krasimir Petrov and Ruslan Toshev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimira Kovachka and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become § 32.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u485	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u486	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In this text we propose that in the case of the so-called joint checks, the composition of the verifiers should be removed from the Regional Health Inspectorate. Why are we suggesting RZI drop out? Because in our opinion, it is not the job of the Regional Health Inspectorate to interfere in the functional nature of those checks that are being carried out. This is about checks that check the quality of medical care, checks that check the rules for good medical, dental, pharmaceutical practice, it is about checking standards, and that is why the Regional Health Inspection, in our opinion, has no place in the composition of these committees. The regional health inspection shall give prior authorisation. She deals with quite other activities, such as, as Dr. Kardzhaliev says, dust measurements and other sanitary parameters, not what this joint committee should do. I therefore propose that the Regional Health Inspectorate be removed from the composition of this committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u487	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Kardzhaliev, Ademov and Chakarov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 106 MPs: 14 against 58, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 33, which becomes § 32. We are voting § 32 on the report. They voted 104 MPs: 92, against 10, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u488	Under § 34, there is a proposal from the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with Article 34. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 34, which shall become § 33: ....;................................................ A new Article shall be created in Section X of Chapter 2. 80: Art. 80. Disputes concerning the execution of contracts between the RHIF and the performers of medical or dental aid shall be settled by judicial procedure if no agreement is reached by means of arbitration.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u489	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 33 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 102 MPs: 92 against 9, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u490	Under § 35 there is a proposal from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov § 35 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative EMIL RAINOV and a group of MPs: § 35 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 34.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u491	Statements? I won't. We vote on the proposals of MPs Kardzhaliev, Ademov, Chakarov, Raynov and a group. The Commission does not support these proposals. They voted 108 MPs: 14 against 64, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for § 35 by importer, which becomes § 34 by report. They voted 106 MPs: for 94, against 12, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u492	Under § 36, there is a proposal from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov § 36 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 35.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u493	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the Members of the National Assembly, not supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: 12, against 61, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on § 36 by importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes § 35 by the report. They voted 105 MPs: 95, against 10, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u494	Proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov § 37 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 36.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u495	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 104 MPs: 10, against 62, abstentions 32. The offer is not accepted. We vote § 37 by importer, which becomes § 36 on the Commission's report. Voted 106 MPs: 98 against 7, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u496	Proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov: .............................................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 38, which shall become § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 106 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3 the words "sevents' shall be replaced by "sevents'. 2. A new para is being created. 4. When the infringement referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article is committed, the Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States and the Commission thereof. 3 was committed by a legal person or by a sole trader, a penalty of 500 to 1000 BGN is imposed and for a repeated infringement from 1000 to 2000 BGN is imposed. 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the words.., 1, 2 and
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u497	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 37 in its version on the Commission report. Cancel the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 98 MPs: 15 against 50, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 37 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 86 against 7, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u498	Proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov § 39 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Emil Raynov and a group of MPs: .............................................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Shishkov and Petar Slavov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Shishkov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 39, which becomes § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 109, para. The last 36 months shall be replaced by the last 60 months and the last 36 months shall be replaced by the last 36 months.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u499	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u500	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, Mr. Secretary! This is the notorious paragraph which deals with the limitation of health insurance contributions. Colleagues, we have passed a statute of limitations for 15 years, some of our colleagues have united around the limitation period for 5 years, we continue to claim the limitation to be 3 years or 36 months with the clear awareness that these Bulgarian citizens who were able to pay the contributions have paid them. We have Bulgarian citizens who are unemployed, unemployed, who have not had the opportunity to cover these contributions. Yes, at the same time there is a group of 200 - 250 thousand Bulgarian citizens who strongly refuse to participate in the health insurance model. That's where the NRA didn't do his job to get them into the health care system. Once again, let us not use this tool to repress the poorest and the unemployed. There have been many talks about this topic: "Let's not comment, let's not demotivate people" because you see only by talking about the 15-year term and at one point all Bulgarian citizens with unpaid contributions have spilled into the NRA and it was crowded by people who wanted to cover their contributions, at least that was claimed in the Health Commission. Just two weeks ago, Deputy Minister Kiril Ananiev said that despite all the efforts by the end of the year, more than 5 million would be raised to the Casa budget, and they quite simply come from the increased minimum wage. So the thesis of how the people were worried and rushed to pay for it forget it! Dear colleagues, let the state not repress the most vulnerable groups of the population again. That is why we propose that this article remain with the old period of 36 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u501	To speak, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u502	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! There is hardly anyone in this room who is about the Bulgarian citizens not paying their health insurance contributions, of course, if they can, if they have incomes to do so. Because in the previous texts it was said that there are more than 350 thousand in Bulgaria. unemployed, out of which permanently unemployed are 156 thousand, i.e. those are people who do not have the opportunity, notice, in 60 months they have to pay 1008 BGN. without interest, so they can re-enter the insurance system. 1008 lv. They have to pay! I'm not saying there should be people who can pay and shouldn't pay their health insurance contributions. God forbid such a thesis! However, I repeat, other than those who pay for the treatment, more than 250 thousand Bulgarian citizens who do not believe do not have confidence in the health insurance system and do not pay health insurance contributions, there are other groups that we should think about. They have to subtract 1008 lv. without interest, so they can enter the insurance system. Years ago, when these 36 months were introduced, the number of uninsured health patients dramatically increased. Believe me, after this measure, which is, I am opening a clamp here and I declare that it is much better and much more legal than the importer's proposal, because it was not about 60 months, but about 15 years ago, since the insurance started, completely contrary to the DODK, this text, although it is better, will at some point prove impossible to implement. One thousand and eight leva without interest rates there is no way for those who can't pay to take it out to enter the system. Think about the vote on this group of Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u503	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u504	Thank you, Madam President. I could not help but express myself, since I am an importer of this text, and he, as Mr. Ademov said, is entirely subject to the Bulgarian legislation, to the limitation periods provided for in DODK. Only I can't understand why you're always kind of weirdly twisting the truth? Because even before this text was adopted, thanks to a media campaign, this information has been reduced to your knowledge, colleagues from the Health Commission "only in the first three weeks the proceeds of contributions made up more than 17 million. Isn't that right, Minister? That's right. By 21 March, the Temporary Pension Fund Commission, which works, received an accurate reference from the National Revenue Agency, and I can tell you that for the first time there was such a huge increase in revenue. If my memory doesn't lie to me...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u505	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u506	This is the truth, there are official documents, colleagues, you can see them on the website of the Temporary Pension Fund Commission. In fact, the big question here is another question: should we close our eyes? We're talking about Bismarck's model here. Naturally, no one mentioned that Bismarck's model was designed so that no one would actually receive a pension because the average life expectancy at that time was 45 years and pensions were received at 65 years of age. I want you to understand what Bismarck's system was like, to explain it to you. We don't have the right to continue stimulating the incorrect payers in the solidarity model. We have no right. Moreover, we have proposed in the following paragraphs, in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law, a relieved model to enable these people to pay back. Do you remember that last year in December, when we had to adopt the budget, here they were explaining to you how poor they are, how they are impossible for farmers, namely tobacco producers to pay their contributions, and just a few days ago we adopted amendments to the Labour Code, which gave farmers the opportunity to hire people to work, which means to open jobs. That's fine. There's nothing wrong with it. That's great! I've told you three months after that we'll review this Law. I hope there's even more insurance going in there.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u507	Let's go back to the Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u508	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I call on you to support the text adopted by the Commission because this is the right, legal text and it must be supported. Let us not develop demagogues and populism, because it is harmful to the health system, it is harmful to the state at least. That's the truth. We don't need populism. Those who develop populism are happily gone today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u509	- What's the line? Mr. Ademov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u510	Thank you, Madam President. I regret that the Minister has come out to hear the arguments that not only his proposal is the reason for increasing revenues in the National Health Insurance Fund for the first quarter. There are at least three reasons that are at the heart of the increase in revenue. From pension insurance contributions the income has been increased by 110 million. A moment ago Mr. Bajraktarov said how much they were increased for health insurance. The main reasons are that at the end of last year the criminalisation of intentional non-payment of social security contributions was accepted, first of all. Secondly, the maximum insurance income was increased by 200 BGN. Thirdly, the minimum insurance thresholds were increased by 4.3%. Here is a wider, higher base, thanks to which health insurance contributions have been increased, not the fear that the minister has practically acknowledged that with this illegal proposal for these 15 years he wanted to scare. If that was his purpose, let him accept that he fulfilled that idea.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u511	Second line, Mrs. Manolova, you're up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u512	Honourable Members, Madam President! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, today I find a big match between my and your views on changes in legislation. However, in the end, as a result of these general reasonings, you are voting for.... I am voting against.................................................................................. That is, this coincidence is not so indisputable, but in this case I am ready to support your proposal in case you support mine. I shall propose, Madam President, the creation of para. 3 after para. 2 in the final proposal of the Health Commission, which sounds as follows: 413 thousand. £282. Otherwise, the health insurance rights of Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov are terminated. I think it's fair, since the citizens will pay the unpaid health contributions for five years back, the biggest, how can I say it straight: the biggest health insurance thief from the Treasury, the finance minister, to recover the money he took from the Health Insurance Fund five years ago. After the poorest Bulgarian citizen will pay due contributions five years back, the most normal is Finance Minister Goranov to return this billion and four hundred million, which illegally took away from the Health Insurance Fund. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Otherwise, to follow the same penalty as for the ordinary Bulgarian citizen, namely Vladislav Goranov to terminate his health insurance rights. I think that's fair.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u513	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Third line? Third line please, Mrs. Atanasova. We've missed you so far in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u514	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Bajraktarov, I partly support your understanding of the fact that not only should sanctions be provided for those who have not been correct to the system, but please do not take into account the words of the colleague who spoke before me, because, Mr. Bajraktarov, if you trust what Mrs. Manolova said, we will have to remind her of another budget with some other ministers in the government Oresharski with Finance Minister Chobanov and, of course, Minister of Health Tanya Andreeva, the State Budget Act during their management and a similar proposal from GERB. Then we suggested what Mrs. Manolova proposes to return to the state budget that billion and a half. And Mrs. Manolova rejected it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u515	Me? I couldn't have rejected it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u516	So I advise you and the group of MPs who did not support GERB's proposals in the Law on the State Budget and respectively in the Law on the Budget of the Casa. Not personally and alone you, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u517	I'm entitled to a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u518	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. [[Noise and lines.]] That's when I didn't stop you and interrupt you, Mrs. Manolova. You have failed the MPs after you who have strayed from the subject. Now the word for the duplicate has Mr. Bayraktarov. It's my fault. I had to stop you from letting Mrs. Atanasova down. And she spoke beyond the subject of the particular text after you. We're listening, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u519	Thank you, Madam President. I'm in a very delicate situation because I have to become an arbitrator between two beautiful ladies. [[Radio.]] But it's a hard task. In fact, while you were replicating me, Mrs. Manolova, I was wondering where we were passing each other and where the gap between our same thinking happened. And you know, I've found that, as an economist, I'm a little better mathematician than any lawyer, and I don't mean to offend you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u520	It's not certain, Mr. Bayraktarov. [[Radio, laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u521	Yeah, it's not certain. I take that back. But still between a billion and 4,500 million and a million and 4,500 thousand, the difference is only a thousand times. In other words, we get away with it a thousand times. [[Laughs]] So, it's nice when you speak, to be precise in your speech, because if we only have to close our eyes for 1 million, against the backdrop of the billions, it's not a problem, but it's not a matter of debate. It's not a question of debate, so I asked you to step out of populism today, because we can really put the tape back and look for all these vices. However, our task today is to look for the positive, and here the positive is that we must make an effort so that the state can finally look wide open to the correct taxpayers. That's the point of this proposal. And we have to do it, and I'm sure you understand that. That is the point, so the proposal is in line with the Bulgarian legislation. It is entirely in favor of those who are correct to this solidarity system, including those who in one way or another are once again benefiting from this system through emergency medical centres. And you know it! And why should we constantly close our eyes and enter into some populism that is harmful to Bulgaria at all, to the Bulgarian people, to the Bulgarian patient, to the healthcare system and to the National Assembly as a whole? It's bad! It's not good, believe me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u522	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Mr. Mikov, come in. After him, Mr. Gokov. The chief has the advantage, Mr. Gokov. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u523	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, this text actually focuses on the approach that is in social security. If you do the retirement age of 90 years you will not need to pay pensions. If you withdraw from 36 months, because even now there is an irregular payment, at 60 or maybe 360 months, you can pass before 1999, when health insurance is due, then it is obvious that no one will need to use health insurance, that is, these people will drop out. What is the point of this norm? During the years 1999 it has been provisionally found that for various reasons some, because of unwillingness and a malicious opportunity to avoid health insurance, do not pay. Others do not pay because of the inability to do so, especially in the crisis, which after 2009 covered Bulgaria during the management of GERB, Mrs. Atanasova, because you like to speculate with the names of Borisov's first cabinet, more and more people refuse to pay, there is no possibility to pay, only that health and health is constitutional law. The market approach that you are actually strengthening now, including with this text, can lead to the fact that if you introduce further requirements, there are practically no patients to serve, and the Health Insurance Fund collects these three billion and distribute them in some way. Maybe all of them in the reserve, like you did last time with the two billion from the Health Insurance Reserve. It's not a good approach and it won't restore trust. It will not restore trust and will not cause people to be more regularly paying their health insurance contributions, because there is a very high degree of distrust that money grows, patients decrease, prices grow, medicines grow, private hospitals increase, they rob expensive paths, there is no money in public health. The Minister, I ask you, to introduce another charge which does not go through a profile review, to increase his health contribution. Is it clear to the Minister and to you from the right hand, is it clear that out of 4000 practices in Bulgaria a thousand are the so-called unattractive practices in which there is no doctor? Is it clear to you that in these villages ripped away 50-60 km from the county city where the Jeep recorded it and never saw it, he has no money to go to a phd checkup? Where do you live? Do you live in Brussels, Paris, Munich? Where do you live? [[Noise and lines.]] You can even see that from the yellow pavement. You have to be very torn from the ground to have no idea. And now here's the same approach: from 36 months of stimulating norm, you put in 60, which is a directly repulsive performance norm. He, the man, better collect his money and when he needs it, go and pay. Why would he give it to the Health Fund when you keep saying you can't control spending money? Why? Why should he give the Health Insurance Fund if he does not know whether his illness is socially significant or not socially significant? Why would he pay them? Why should he pay for 36, let alone 60, then again? It's a sane mind, and I can't understand what's going on in your head, and why are you so far away from life? Thank you. We're against this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u524	First line, Mr. Slavov, Mr. Bayraktarov after him. Third line? Okay, Mr. Gokov, you're on speaker duty. Mr. Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u525	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Mikov, you have truly surprised me with this statement, so I take the floor. As a lawyer, you know very well that this is not really a statute of limitations and I would ask you to explain to your colleagues that the limitation period is actually written in the Tax Insurance Procedure Code and it is 5 years. Whether we here in the Health Insurance Act will record three years or we will record five, or any other term, the obligation to pay health insurance contributions for each Bulgarian citizen remains under the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code for 5 years. So, regardless of the health insurance status of the person, it will owe them. And the NRA can intervene and collect them. Here the question is another, and we are really commenting on whether one such disciplinary measure can be introduced, because we in the Reformation bloc have a similar proposal, will stimulate the collection of social contributions, will also stimulate the improvement of the health insurance status of many people. And if you are reading, or rather you should read in full the bill, you will see that § 49 provides for a transitional period of six months in which individuals can take action in the current order and correct themselves, in a harsh manner, the health insurance status, so please do not speculate on the subject. Let the Bulgarian citizens know that they have a six-month period in which they can take action and adjust their health insurance status. And really, if you want to be a left-wing party representing really people in difficulties, think then about measures how the state, respectively the Ministry of Health, to help them, to improve their health insurance status and to restore their rights, and not to create in the laws opportunities and gaps for unscrupulous persons on the back of the conscientious taxpayer in practice not to pay their social security contributions and to carry them on their backs all those who conscientiously pay their health contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u526	Second line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u527	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Mikov, I am really surprised by your speech because, in fact, with it, you are most likely unconsciously misleading citizens. I will now try to remind you what the procedure is, because you talked about constitutional rights, but you neglected to say that citizens also have constitutional obligations. In this case, any citizen who has not paid social security contributions shall become liable for public claims. You owe me a face! After five years, to be more precise, even after four years and six months usually the National Revenue Agency inspectors send a letter inviting the citizen concerned to voluntarily repay these obligations, after which, of course, if he does not, under art. 417 t. Two steps away from the bailiff. Isn't that right, Mrs. Manolova? And it follows that the citizen will not only not be relieved but will be charged with all the fees of the bailiff and instead of what we propose to do on a legal basis to repay his debts and to recover his health insurance rights, and most importantly, not to fall into the nails of the bailiff and to pay not 1008 but probably 3 Then I ask you: will any of you go to protect these ordinary citizens? This is what we are trying to save people with the proposals in this text. That's not true because you speculated a lot, Mr. Ademov. I'm sorry to mention your name now, but I didn't respond to your line because you said it was a criminalized non-contribution. We criminalize the non-payments and hit the employers, and by chance all the other incorrect payers have to caress them with a feather.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u528	Say that in Velingrad to those who pick potatoes, those who pick in Smolyan, don't tell me!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u529	Is there a third line to Mr. Mikov? I won't. It's a hole, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u530	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, this is the difference in reading the Constitution. I'm reading to you. 52, where the first paragraph also states that citizens have the right to sickness insurance, nothing is said to guarantee them affordable medical care and free use of medical care under conditions and by order laid down by law. Mr. Slavov, you're talking about taxpayers. If they were taxpayers, we'd be in Denmark - 25% VAT, you don't have a pension system, pensions are paid by the budget. The meaning of the separation of health funds and social funds in 1999, when your predecessors, who are no longer here, promised flowers and roses to the Bulgarian people, was to separate themselves from the budget, will have large pensions, there will be free health care type. It's 2015 and we all see it. So, Mr. Bayraktarov, my point is: there is no obligation for health insurance proclaimed in the Constitution. If it was a tax, it's another text, read it to yourself. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] D.O.C.C. can't derogate the Constitution, that'll explain it to you other people, it doesn't make sense for me to tell you. Mr. Slavov, my respects, statute of limitations, I haven't heard of any. There are regulations that govern statute of limitations, but there are no statute of limitations. You said right, it's about stimulating the norm. And look at what reasoning.. after a norm at 36 months cannot perform its stimulating function, instead of the legislator saying 30 months to stimulate, he says 60 months, which makes sense of stimulating. Then it's only about the stick's approach, but what does the stick consist of? Either you pay or you die, that's the dilemma, there's no other dilemma. However, for the citizen, the dilemma is another one of the reasons why I should pay, since I do not know whether I will be on the list of socially important ones. Here's the simple translation of what you're doing here today. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You have to be aware, it has to stay in the transcripts. Read the stereograms of 1999, Bayraktarov. Look at them then, when you put the business into health care, and today you're expanding it to its limit, only the world is coming back from there now, going back where you want to finish the health care. That's what you're doing. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u531	Personal explanation of Mrs. Manolova. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I get it, Mr. Mihov. Mrs. Manolova wants a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u532	Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, I share your concern about the situation in which a poor Bulgarian citizen falls...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u533	You must explain what you are affected by his words, Mrs. Manolova, in the personal explanation. You're not making a line on it right now, so stick to the personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u534	Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Mr. Bayraktarov misinterpreted, using me as an example, the dangers that Bulgarian citizens face when they fall into the hands of a private judicial contractor. [[Laughter, excitement and applause from GERB.]] But what I disagree with him and I have taken personally is that in cases where the texts in question are adopted, the citizen, in addition to being harassed and persecuted by a private judicial contractor, will be interrupted with health insurance rights. That is, except that it will pay three times more, during this period it will not be able to be treated, so a new burden is added to the burden of the Chesees, to which even you from the Patriotic Front become importers and offerers. I will conclude my personal explanation with a mathematical problem, as Bayraktarov explained that he is much better than me in mathematics and that I as a lawyer do not understand her well enough. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] My question is this: how many kilograms of potatoes does a potato maker from your native Velingrad region have to sell to pay 1008 BGN to pay for his health contributions in order to be able to be treated free of charge? [[Laughter and excitement.]] How many kilos of potatoes, how long will it take to produce them? That's my question. [[Noise, lines and applause]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u535	Mr. Mihov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u536	Thank you, Madam President. I think vegetable production is in another law, so I propose that the debate be terminated. Let's get back to the subject and vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u537	A counteroffer? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u538	Madam President, honourable Members! The debate on this short text is too interesting and to put an end to it so lightly, I think, is irresponsible. There are clear these and I am absolutely against Mr. Mihov's proposal to end these debates. Let him continue, everyone can say that this is an antisocial right-wing policy and you seek only to rob people and nothing more. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u539	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal to end the debate under § 39 by importer, which shall become § 38 on the report. Vote 117 MPs: 98 against 16, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov, Dzhevdet Chakarov, Emil Raynov and a group of MPs who propose dropping § 39 by importer. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 123 MPs: 22, against 73, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u540	What about my proposal for a new paragraph?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u541	Mrs. Manolova, your proposal was made prematurely. Its systematic place is further down where you and Mr. Emil Raynov proposed it in Transitional and Final Provisions under § 41. [[Reply of National Representative Maya Manolova.]] It's not editing the text we have. There's a proposal. When the time comes, we'll vote on it. Then we'll debate it. We are voting § 38 on the Commission report. Vote 118 MPs: 96 against 19, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Negative vote first, Mr. Gokov. You said that when we started debating this text. After him, Mr. Georgiev, but he will not be able to do so because he has spoken on the ground. [[Noise and shout in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u542	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm sorry the Minister isn't here. I'm also very sorry that Mr. Mihov interrupted the speeches. Now, in my negative vote, I'm going to try to replicate some reasoning on why I voted against it. I voted against because we are directing some measures in a bunch to all people who do not pay insurance. It made sense that it would focus on people who had the opportunity to pay insurance but didn't pay them. We have directed this in common to people who do not have such an opportunity. 1008 BGN. Is it, is it 1,000 and how many leva are... Mrs. Manolova asked Mr. Bayraktarov how many potatoes would have to be produced, and at that moment I thought how many iron and plastic bottles should a man collect from the street to pay his insurance. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]] And another argument. For those who don't pay their health insurance and take them back five years, have we thought about why these people don't pay their insurance? Because of the trust in the health care system? And now we continue to destroy that trust by dividing the package into basic and additional. He doesn't know whether to pay his insurance or not, because tomorrow he might not get any health care for the money he's given. In that order of thought, I'll say something else. I think the Labour Code recorded a limitation on employees' claims...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u543	No, don't make such analogies! You must announce your negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u544	My negative vote is that in the Labour Code...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u545	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u546	Well, if you're interrupting me, time will be over, but I'm gonna say this! I can't help but say it. It is written in the Labour Code that the limitation period, Mr. Bajraktarov, of the employees and employees for the collection of salaries is three years, and we here are the opposite claims of the state of these people to the Health Insurance Fund, we make them five years! Why, Mr. Bayraktarov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u547	Second negative vote, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u548	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! I voted against because I do not want to be part of those who vote against the people who restrict their constitutionally guaranteed rights. And the right to healthcare is compatible and comparable to the right to life. That's what you did right now! [[Noise and shout in GERB and RB.]] You want to rip off nine skins of people, only barefoot can't get any. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]] This is an absolute example of right-wing antisocial policy that you are trying to impose. Colleague Slavov says this is not a statute of limitations. Colleague, the issue is controversial, but this is still a time limit related to the restoration of social rights, of rights related to life assurance. And as we've given a 36-month statute of limitations, you instead of reducing it to 24, you're increasing it further. Are you against people? That's what I don't understand!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u549	When you were in power, why didn't you turn them down?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u550	Time limits aren't just five years old. I just want to explain this to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u551	There are ten-year-olds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u552	There are also three-year-olds related to interest, penalties and other periodic obligations, which by analogy is this. It was right not to increase this deadline. And colleague Gyokov explained to you that he is related to the labour rights and salaries that people receive. And if they didn't take their salary for five years and pay them back for the fourth and fifth years, where should they pay?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u553	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Third negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u554	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I voted against this text because it introduces another injustice against Bulgarian citizens. The first text that was adopted and was cruelly unfair was in terms of dividing the health services to be provided into two packages.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u555	This issue was voted on two hours ago!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u556	This is the next thing that turns Bulgarian citizens into foreigners in their own country. The first is the inability to receive healthcare needed for their needs, introducing a package of social diseases, but it is not known by what criteria, and now we are giving them another opportunity to go to treatment abroad, as there were before me. Because by entering such an amount to be owed in five years, we will totally push them away from the Bulgarian health system! [[Reply of MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] Such a time limit cannot be considered as stimulating in any way, so that Bulgarian citizens can pay their health insurance. On the contrary, these people will forever fall out of the scope of the Bulgarian health system. Because I have witnessed, even in an ambulance, when a Bulgarian citizen with severe pneumonia comes in and with a life-threatening risk of how he was returned, because then he has to pay for the treatment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u557	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u558	Now many Bulgarian citizens will fall into this category. For this reason, I voted against. You condemn hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens to lack of health care.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u559	You've got 30 seconds left!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u560	It's clearly written in the Constitution. And with these texts, we violate those texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u561	Thank you. Any other MPs? I won't. There's not a chance because the three negative votes have passed. Go on, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u562	Proposal of the National Representative Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov in § 40 to drop the item. 1. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Members of the National Assembly Emil Raynov and a group of Members of the National Assembly in § 40 are made the following changes: 1. Point 1 2. Point 2 et seq. 3 become respectively t. 1 et c. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Krasimir Petrov and Ruslan Toshev the proposal has been passed. The proposal of the National Representative Semir Abu Melih and Dimitar Petrov has been made. Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Shishkov and Valentin Pavlov the proposal was made in the Chamber. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 40, which shall become § 39: .............................................................................. Paragraph 1 of the additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 the words "Main package" shall be replaced by "Packet." 2. A new t. is created. 19: "19." The infringement of the rules of the LDC shall be three or more infringements of the quality requirements laid down in the LDC for a period of 6 months for the duration of the LDC and of the decisions referred to in art. 54, para. 9 and 10.......................................................................................................... 3. A t is created. 19a: 19a. The level of frustration is three or more times established dissatisfaction according to the regulation under art. 19th para. 7, p. 15 of patients in the activity of a medical care contractor for a period of 6 months for the duration of the LDC and the decisions under art. 54, para. 9 and 10. 4. A t is created. 19b: "19b." The patient's satisfaction from medical activities related to the medical care provided is a coincidence between the patient's expectations, his needs and his actual medical care and is an indicator of the quality assessment of the medical care based on a study of the patient's attitudes and opinions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u563	Statements? Mrs. Manolova. [[Relations between MPs Daniela Daritkova and Maya Manolova.]] Please, no lines outside the microphone! Not all colleagues can hear in this room. [[Relations and noise in the hall. Awesome.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u564	Nothing of value has been missed by the coworkers. [[Noise and lines.]] Dear colleagues! Member of the Commission. - Madam President, this is indeed one of the texts that raises great ambiguity in those who are involved in the discussion, I suppose that also in those who will then have to apply them. Minister Moskov's contribution to health insurance has been added to Mrs Daritkova's contribution. After Minister Moskov exercised his capacity for systemic frustration of patients and related consequences, Mrs. Daritkova contributed by offering a definition of this satisfaction to patients from the medical activities. Notice that this is not some abstract dispute or any side dispute. As a result of measuring this feeling, this satisfaction will follow sanctions. At the very best possible possible possible level of financial sanctions for hospitals and other medical aid contractors and, in worse cases, the cessation of the purchase and sale of medical activities by them. I use the modern terminology that introduced the ruling majority in this activity. Note, what, according to Mrs Daritkova, does the patient's satisfaction with the medical activities associated with all the resulting negative consequences if this frustration is lacking? It is an achievement of a match between the patient's expectations and his actual medical care. If there is such a lack of matching expectations with the reality more than three times within six months, the relevant medical facility, jeeps, hospital will be serious and salt fined or purchase-sales between it and the Health Insurance Fund will be terminated. I ask: who will measure this satisfaction and what criteria will be invested in it... whether this will be done by conducting surveys, by asking among patients; whether there will be any sociology, that is to say whether the sociological agencies have contributed to this know-how, because it will be cashed by measuring this satisfaction, the legislator does not say. In my opinion, normal practice, if a citizen is satisfied and especially when dissatisfied, is to file a complaint. Notice, Mr Abu Melih's proposals on the subject, including by creating an appropriate electronic code for individuals to be able to submit such complaints, have been withdrawn. Otherwise this would have been the third proposal of a person from the ruling majority outside Mr. Sharkov and outside Mr. Willy Lilkov who... [[Heckling]] Shishkov, I'm sorry, Mr. Shishkov, which I would support. For the World Health Organization, which we have learned is at the bottom of this know-how with satisfaction, it would be a great surprise to me. Even its representatives would be shocked if they saw the Bulgarian experience in measuring patient satisfaction, even more so if they found out what the consequences of the presence or not of this feeling of coincidence between the expected and the actual results would be. In my opinion, normal practice whether you are satisfied or not with your medical assistance is the filing of a complaint under which you sign, checking whether this feeling is subjective, or whether it is real and only after that to produce relevant actions. Otherwise, in my opinion, the owners of private hospitals that compete with municipal or other hospitals would use this opportunity absolutely for its purpose by creating in certain patients a sense of frustration that one God knows how will be measured. Dear Mr. Moskov, I think that by giving yourself the power to divide the packages into basic and additional, to measure satisfaction, to write methodologies, you really seriously harm your future political and ministerial career. [[Noise, cheer and lines.]] Let the MPs make their contribution to these unique new concepts, even more in view of their consequences. [[Heckling]] Your career really isn't going to end well, which would be a shame.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u565	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. I hope you are at least satisfied with your speech. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Mihov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u566	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I guess my procedure will have more satisfaction. I have a feeling that my colleagues and I are going through some kind of déjà vu, something that we were hearing this morning 10 hours ago, we're hearing exactly the same thing right now. I suggest that we stop this deja vu what we've been hearing all day because the supports are clearly written by the same people, they're just speaking from different people. I am making a procedure to end the debate on this paragraph. Thank you. [[The National Representative Dimitar Lazarov wants the floor for a reverse proposal.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u567	For a reverse offer, Mr. Lazarov? [[National Representative Mihail Mikov wants the floor for procedure.]] Mr. Lazarov, Mr. Mikov asked for the floor. [[Replying, noise and shouting in the hall.]] Mr. Mikov, are you a procedure or a reverse proposal? [[Replying, noise and shouting.]] Mr. Lazarov, come in. [[BSP LB banks rumbling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u568	Dear Mr. Chairman, only the same parliamentary group is allowed to do so. Give the other parliamentary groups an opportunity. I'm making a reverse procedural proposal. Since many of Mr. Mihov's proposals have been accepted, I am making a reverse procedural proposal not to end the debates. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u569	I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Tsvetomir Mihov to end the debate. Voting mode. They voted 121 MPs: 92, against 25, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Mr. Mikov, please come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u570	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appeal to you with one request: the President of the National Assembly, the Conference of Presidents, to make efforts to organise a short course to clarify the spirit of the rules. If it happened by MPs who were in this room for the first time, I would understand that. But I do feel, dear Mr. President, that people who have already been here for several terms have not understood the individual rights in the Rules of Procedure for what they are given. They don't understand the spirit of the Rules. I don't just connect him to their ability or their intelligence. I connect it first and foremost with the efforts made by the management to clarify what is the meaning of the Parliamentary Rules. Please, Mr. Chairman, the Assembly's leadership is to take care of it, because MPs are exposed, and not a first term, do you understand? This is also worrying about the authority of the Assembly. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u571	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u572	Mr President, in the spirit of what was just said by the honourable Member with longstanding parliamentary experience, explaining the spirit of these Rules, I ask the honourable Presidency, which also participates in the Fortyth National Assembly, the Thirty-nineth National Assembly, to explain that in the Forty-first National Assembly in the Rules, the majority was then ruled by GERB, the possibility of a procedure for termination of the debates at second reading. Well, this was introduced into the forty-second National Assembly by colleagues. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u573	Thank you. By delaying the meetings, they may need more clarification of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov, not supported by the Commission. They voted 117 MPs: 21, against 68, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP EMIL RAINOV and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 120 MPs: 23, against 81, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. The following proposals have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u574	Mr. Shishkov's offer has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u575	It's withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u576	I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 39 in the version of the Commission. They voted 118 MPs: for 101, against 17, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Come in for a negative vote, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u577	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I voted against because with these texts, we introduced absolutely imaginary......................and systemic dissatisfaction and so on. Colleagues, these are subjective sensations, and how do we turn them into objective criteria for assessing medical activity? Here's the Minister, let's explain can the same patient have the same subjective assessment of having the same subjective sense of coincidence with I don't know what?! Colleagues, please take a look at the content of these texts and stop the nonsense that is taking place in this Chamber and from you. This whole law is absolutely confused and is the result of the confused thinking about health reform to not say in the head of the minister, but in the subjective sensations of the Minister. That is why from now on I am telling you: there can be no support and trust in society for what you have done.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u578	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Come in for a second negative vote, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u579	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs, I will not dwell on subjective sensations. A few moments ago, individual MPs expressed subjective feelings that the same thing has been said since the morning. In other words, there are also such MPs who no matter what the discussion is, as the people say: "As a blind man day and night." I am abstracting from their subjective feelings. Mr. Minister, I voted against because with these texts, if the debates were not ended, I would say: you tolerate the violation by health institutions, shortening the period of systemism 6 months within a year, as the National Framework Treaty operates, and that means that they should only be in those 6 months. Including you have taken the same concept in systemic frustration. And that's where you put that deadline, six months, so you can tolerate violations. That's what you're doing. Sooner or later, this will come out in the press. Even though Mihov is making suggestions here. That's what you did. I mean, you're stimulating... [[Reply from Minister Petar Moskov.]] That's what I'm talking about. I say why I voted against. The text is very clear. It is explicitly stated here: the period of 6 months for the duration of the National Framework Treaty. If he makes the third breach on the seventh month, there's no system, there's no punishment. Who do you tolerate? You want to discipline, don't you? You actually allow this type of formulation of the concept to violate them with impunity. That's it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u580	For the third negative vote, Mr. Yankov. Mr. Iankov is giving up. We're moving on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u581	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u582	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of the importing division supported by the Commission. Vote 107 MPs: 103, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u583	Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs: In the transitional and final provisions of the Health Insurance Act, new paragraphs with the following content shall be created: .. (1) Persons who owe more than three health insurance contributions for the period until 31 December 2014 by 30 June 2015 may make a written request that the payment of the amounts due be deferred by 31 December 2015. (2) By order of para. 1 are deferred liabilities for health insurance contributions with a principal amount above 150 (one hundred fifty) BGN. (3) The persons shall submit a request for deferral in the territorial division of the National Revenue Agency, indicating the deadline for payment of their obligations. (4) The obligation shall be deferred from the date of submission of the request by decision of the Director of the Territorial Division of the National Revenue Agency or of officials authorised by it. The decision shall record the amount of the obligation, the deadline for the payment of the deferred debt and the total amount due by the end of that period. A copy of the decision shall be served on the person. (5) The persons on whom the obligation has been deferred shall retain their rights as health insured persons. (6) Under the conditions laid down in para. 1-4 persons shall not be subject to fines under art. No. 104, para. 3 and the provision of Art. 3 shall not apply. 109, para. 1. (7) The person shall lose his health insurance rights unless he repays his obligation under para. 4 until the time-limit for the suspension. (8) Persons working on employment and work relationships shall retain their health insurance rights if the contributions have not been paid by the employer. (9) Employers who, by 31 December 2015, pay the contributions due by 31 December 2015 shall not be subject to fines under art. No. 104, para. One and two. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Emil Raynov and a group of MPs: B. zakl. A new § 41 shall be created when appropriate change in the numbering of the following: ............................................................................. Within 31.12.2015 from the central budget in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund shall be reimbursed on the basis of § 27 of the transitional and final provisions of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2011. (University) DV. No. 99 from 2010, as amended. DV. No. 31 and 99 of 2011) This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, The amount shall be reported under the budgets of the National Health Insurance Fund and the State Budget for 2016 as a transfer from the central budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for the recovery of the reserve. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u584	The debate is open. First appearances wish to speak, Mr. Raynov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u585	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Before I made my speech, there was the same mistake that comrade Maya Manolova made. It says here it's 1 43 282 thousand. BGN "Kilski BGN." The last one you forgot. So, honourable Members, with the clear awareness that what we will hear, we have already heard it, how last year you had a proposal that we did not satisfy both Prime Minister Oresharski and Minister Chobanov and Minister Tanya Andreeva... But since last year we weren't as good as you are now, the first 3-4 months you raised more than 2 billion. Money, as early as January, you've secured 16 billion. a loan. Dear colleagues, let us restore this injustice, after which recovery, believe me, the Bulgarian people will finally see in your face that there are real statesmen, Mr. Minister. So let's restore that billion and 413 million 282 thousand. BGN, read them verbatim by appreciating the gesture after all! We here do not even comment on those transfers that were from the Cashier's budget to the Ministry of Health. So, honourable Members, after we have waved the bat of the citizens of the most vulnerable groups, let us finally all of you, all of us are statesmen, and restore this injustice. There's money in the budget, you're up at this rate, probably by the end of the year, rivers of honey and butter will flow. So let's restore this injustice, from then on to assign responsibility to the minister, to his deputy ministers. They will distribute the money properly, but it will also be a gesture to those 280 thousand who currently do not want to participate in the health care system because they see this injustice. This will motivate them, believe me, much more than its different deadlines, which you can take back as much as you want. So support our offer! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u586	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Bayraktarov, then Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u587	Editorial proposal!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u588	It's not editorial, it's very true. When thousands are recorded, it means a billion 413 million. The tape is absolutely correct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u589	You don't know what I'm offering.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u590	Okay, I'll give you a chance to make your offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u591	Thank you, Madam President. I even heard that Mr. Ademov will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u592	Yeah, me too!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u593	There are very few of you! And here on the left, you're very few. Populism, populism, populism and populism again! Today, I was under the impression that all regular payouts of health insurance, with excuses for the expression, are some baboons! So it turns out that all the people over 2 million who make their contributions, they are the fools, because, you see, some marginal groups of people are obliged to support them and pay their contributions! Nevertheless, we thought in advance, and that is why we submitted this text so that people could, because there were extremely unprepared speeches here... I find it very uncomfortable for people who have worked in the social sphere to explain to them that they are confusing civil-law relations with a different kind of relationship, that they should know that when the employer has not paid your social security, the worker and the employee does not lose their health insurance rights because it is not his fault. They should know that guaranteed claims on labour relations are something entirely different from public obligations under the DODK, but this is another topic. This is where the debate stands today. With the proposals that we have made and which we have commented in advance with colleagues in the Commission, and I also warned them then that there will be a very serious populism in these texts, even the minister can remember when commenting on these same texts, we explicitly said: let us allow the people of a deferred payment to repay the contributions............................................................... to recover their health insurance rights! Because these people, since you're talking about constitutional rights, they can still use those rights if they want to. Only they'll have to pay one insurance company and take advantage of it on a completely different line. There is nothing wrong with that, and they can do that, but their public obligations at the NRA will light up anyway, and in each letter sent the deadline will start running again, again and again until one day the bailiff enters. Do not trap people with these misconceptions, but quite the contrary, let us also give these people the opportunity of a deferred payment. I appeal to my colleagues from GERB to support these proposals so that we can pin all the populism that has been poured out here today. It is simply the right approach to give an opportunity, and then naturally, when you have given this opportunity and it has not been taken advantage of by the citizen concerned, it is for him to carry all his responsibilities. I hope, Mr. Ademov, that you call your colleagues from your room to become more people, as well as the young lady in the green jacket, I don't say names anymore, so there's no personal explanation, and I'll also call on my colleagues, and then I'll explain the math problem. Thank you. [[Noise and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u594	I hope it is not in this plenary. And tomorrow is the day, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? To speak, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u595	Dear colleagues! Madam President, since you have diverted my proposal for an amendment under § 39, I have to do so here, where you believe it is its systematic place, you may be right. I propose to our proposal, which calls for the transfer by 31 December 2015 from the central budget to the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund to 1 billion. 413 million. 282 thousand. BGN, to be added a sentence to complete the following meaning: "Otherwise, the health insurance rights of the Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov are terminated. With this proposal, we have also considered the proposal made by colleagues from the Patriotic Front, who offer conditions to postpone all Bulgarian citizens by the end of this calendar year, i.e. the citizen X to accept potato producer from Velingrad, leaves a deadline until the end of this year to collect 1008 BGN, which can be submitted to the Casata. I expect Mr. Bayraktarov to help me by specifying exactly how many kilos of potatoes he will have to sell the potato maker in order to obtain the 1008 leva. by the end of this calendar year. I propose that what is true for the ordinary Bulgarian citizen, for the potato maker of Velingrad, should also apply to Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov and that he has a commitment that what he has not paid to the Casa, namely 1 billion. 400 million, to be so good in terms of timing by the end of this calendar year to return the cash to the Cashier, because this is populism that there is no money in the Cashier, that money is missing, that it is insufficient. There was money, $1 billion. 500 million, which Finance Minister Djankov with Deputy Vladislav Goranov withdrew from the Cassata, and this is why this huge problem is now being created: the sharing of packages of basic and additional, purchase and sale of medical assistance, the measurement of patient satisfaction, followed by financial sanctions and heaps of similar Abracadabri and complete nonsense. The real problem is the money in the Cashier, and whoever took it has to return it. And because Mrs. Menda Stoyanova smiles, I advise her to stop smiling, otherwise I will offer her rights as chairman of the Budget Committee. [[laughs, excitement and lines]] to be terminated if Vladislav Goranov does not contribute the 1 billion due. 400 million, not to mention Goranov's health insurance rights, Menda Stoyanova's, I wonder if Prime Minister Borisov should be included in the bill. We're shutting down their rights so there'll be justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u596	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] A line to Mrs. Manolova? She made an offer. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] A statement, but it was related to an editorial supplement in which she proposed a whole sentence. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] It's a line to her. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u597	Madam President, I only took a line to respond to the complex mathematical task. I will ask for an apology. The answer is extremely simple: at the Yundola Council of the leaders of the BSP potatoes give them away free of charge. Thank you. [[Single applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u598	That's the line I'm expecting, Mrs. Manolova. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] You're giving up. [[Applause.]] For which you have applause on the side of the entire Chamber. Are there any other MPs on this point? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission does not support this proposal. We vote. They voted 103 MPs: 40 against 41, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u599	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, a little effort is needed to combat populism. I therefore invite you to support this proposal so that we do not allow populism to develop throughout its form of ugliness. Support this proposal. It's useful. Thank you. I want a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u600	It's a re-vote. They voted 97 MPs: 32, against 37, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Emil Raynov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u601	What about my offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u602	Mrs. Manolova, you weren't precise in your proposal because you didn't understand exactly who you were referring to. I believe that you need more time, all the more so that laws reproduce common, recurring relationships that need to be regulated. There is no way only one person, as was your original proposal, of course, in the statement you have corrected yourself, pointed out more names, specified them, we have time to the end. I'm looking forward to new proposals. I put to the vote the proposal of Emil Raynov and a group of MPs. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Okay. You have the opportunity for a legislative initiative to devote an entire law to it. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] They voted 112 MPs: 20, against 67, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. [[Heckling]] Mr. Raynov, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u603	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, no matter how many hours we are here, you have a unique chance to correct a historical injustice... [[The President turns off the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u604	Mr. Raynov, you may only want a re-vote if you have failed to vote or contest the outcome. [[National Representative Emil Raynov speaks in off microphones.]] Okay. Colleagues, stop coming in and out so we don't have to go over this all the time. It's a rethink mode. [[Heckling]] Colleagues, don't lose the presence of the spirit. There's not much left. There's not much left. They voted 118 MPs: 20, against 78, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u605	Under § 41 a proposal has been made by the MP Dimitar Shishkov. The following amendments shall be made in § 41: (a) c. 2 (a) (b) (b) (b) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (b) c. 4 letter to drop. (c) c. 4 point (c) to be amended as follows: ,, (c) the creation of para.10: sc. (c) Medicinal products referred to in art. 45, para. 10, 13 and 19 of the Health Insurance Act, for which no discounts are agreed, are not included in the Positive Drug List, except for medicinal products which are without an alternative or of medicinal products with existing analogues for which the NHIF would pay a higher amount than that of an exception medicinal product. Contracts for granting concessions shall be entered into the Council in accordance with the procedure laid down in the ordinance under art. 261a, para. 5. (d) c. 5 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov: The following amendment shall be made in § 41: a) In the new t. 7 of a t. 2bb instead of the words "three years" to be recorded "one year." (b) C. 4c, in the new para. 10, after the word The Commission does not support the proposal. The proposal of the MPs Dimitar Shishkov and Valentin Pavlov has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Vili Lilkov: The following amendments shall be made in § 41: (a) c. 2 (a) (b) (b) (b) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (b) c. 4 letter to drop. (c) c. 4 point (c) to be amended as follows: (c) the creation of para.10: sc. (c) Medicinal products referred to in art. 45, para. 10, 13 and 19 of the Health Insurance Act, for which no discounts are agreed, are not included in the Positive Drug List, except for medicinal products which are without an alternative or of medicinal products with existing analogues for which the NHIF would pay a higher amount than that of an exception medicinal product. Contracts for granting concessions shall be entered into the Council in accordance with the procedure laid down in the ordinance under art. 261a, para. 5. (d) c. 5 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 41, which shall become § 40: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... In the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 t. 7 is repealed; (b) the creation of para. 8 and 9: On the day of submission of the application under para. 1 and 5 IAL sends a request to the Management Board of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union to issue a certificate of entry in the national electronic register of the members of the Bulgarian Pharmacy Union for Master Pharmacist, Head of Pharmacy, as well as to provide information on penalties imposed under the Law on the word organization of Master Pharmacists and the Law on Health. (9) The Governing Council shall provide the documents under para. 8 within 5 working days of receipt of the request. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1: (aa) c. 4 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'; bb) To be created t. 7 and 8: "7." maintain the reimbursement status of medicinal products every three years from their inclusion in the Positive Drug List; 8. assist in the negotiation of concessions in cases under art. 45, para. 10, 13 and 19 of the Health Insurance Act for medicinal products for which applications for inclusion in the Positive Drug List have been submitted. (b) in para. 5 t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." the inclusion, modification or maintenance of the reimbursement status of listed under art. 262, para. 1 medicinal product. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 259b, para. 1 is created t. 6 and 7: It's six. 90 days when an application for inclusion in the Positive Drug List of a new international non-proprietary name has been submitted; 7.60 days when an application for maintenance of the reimbursement status of the active medicinal product has been submitted on the Positive Drug List. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 4 is finally added as for medicinal products with a new international non-proprietary name a health technology assessment is carried out and a sentence is created second: the health technology assessment is carried out under conditions and in order determined by a regulation of the Minister of Health. (b) in para. 9 after the word "supplied', the "reimbursing status of medicinal products' is added; (c) the creation of para. 10 and 11: sc. (c) Medicinal products referred to in art. 45, para. 10, 13 and 19 of the Health Insurance Act, for which no discounts are agreed, are not included in the Positive Drug List. Contracts for granting concessions shall be entered into the Council in accordance with the procedure laid down in the ordinance under art. 261a, para. 5. (11) Medicinal products for which in the procedure under art. 259, para. 1, t. The positive assessment of their inclusion is not demonstrated, is excluded from the Positive Drug List. 5. In § 1 of the additional provisions: (a) To be created t. 42b: "42b." The health technology assessment is: (a) a form of research policy that explores short-term and long-term results related to the implementation of health technologies and aims to provide information on alternative health strategies; (b) a multidisciplinary activity that systematically evaluates the technical characteristics, safety, clinical efficiency and effectiveness, costs, value efficiency, organisational, social, legal and ethical effects of the use of medicinal products in healthcare and focuses on the value of (b) To be created t. 44a: It's 44a. "Reimbursing status' is an assessment of a medicinal product based on evidence of efficacy, therapeutic effectiveness, safety and analysis of pharmaco-economic indicators. ...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u606	The debate is open. Mrs. Manolova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u607	Madam President, my speech is mostly addressed to you. Note that in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Insurance Act the paragraph that Mrs Daritkova has just presented is proposed amendments to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, that is, the Law is open to changes. Meanwhile, ten days ago or last week, Minister Moskov submitted a whole Law proposing amendments to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. In my opinion, you should pay attention to the Council of Ministers that there are some rules in legislative activity. There's no way...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u608	No such law has been introduced.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u609	Okay, we'll take a look at the site.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u610	Please don't replicate from place.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u611	We'll look at the site and you'll check accordingly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u612	I agree.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u613	It is not normal to open a law, provided that it is considered in the context of transitional and final provisions anyway. In addition, it is already clear in the Law on Medical Institutions, which is also discussed in the Transitional and Final Provisions in the following texts, that the procedure, which starts with the changes in health insurance, receives its logical development and conclusion according to the new proposals in the Law on Medical Institutions, namely, after through the system of purchasing medical care with certain medical establishments, the termination of contracts with the same medical establishments, the accumulation of debts under limits and the purchase-selling of medical care will inevitably result in the bankruptcy of a number of health institutions, mainly hospitals that are about to be privatized, as shown by the proposed changes in the Law on Medical Institutions. By the way, the process of bankruptcy of medical institutions is already under way with several pulmonary hospitals in Pernik, in Northeastern Bulgaria. So this, logically speaking, is the entire health reform, the health reform scheme that is being proposed by the Health Ministry, but nevertheless, certain rules of legislative technique must be respected, which I expect you to be president of, that you respect the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u614	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u615	Thank you, Madam President. I take the floor very briefly, colleagues, to protect the proposal of colleague Willy Lilkov. Almost the same from colleague Dimitar Shishkov of the Reformation Bloc. It concerns para. 10, one supplement in it, which is practically not to exclude these medicines from the Positive Drug List, which: one option is that they have no alternative or no analogue for a disease, and the other option is where, although no discount is agreed, the product in question, its analogues are significantly more expensive. I think it's obvious here, which is what you're looking for with this proposal. Really economically justified is what colleagues propose, because the other could mean once that a person can be left without medication, without the possibility of treatment, and in the other case it may turn out that the Health Insurance Fund will pay much more than if it has taken the medicine initially proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u616	- What's the line? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Shishkov, identical with the proposal of the National Representative Vili Lilkov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 111 MPs: 25, against 46, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Kardzhaliev, Ademov and Chakarov. The Commission does not support it. They voted 107 MPs: for 5, against 74, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting § 40 in the version of the Commission report. 110 MPs voted: 101, Against 9, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u617	According to § 42 the proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov: In § 42, they shall drop out. 1 and para. The following information is available in the Official The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Emil Raynov and a group of MPs: In Transitional and Final Provisions § 42.... is The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a withdrawn proposal from the MPs Dimitar Shishkov and Valentin Pavlov. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs, which has also been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 42, which shall become § 41: ............................................................................. (1) The Minister of Health shall determine the criteria under art. 45, para. 3 within three months of the entry into force of this law. (2) The Supervisory Board of the NHIF shall validate the list referred to in Article 2. 45, para. 4 within three months of the determination of the criteria under para. 1. (3) Within one month of the entry into force of the list under art. 45, para. 4 The National Council on Prices and Reimbursement of Medicinal Products shall by default exclude from the Positive Drug List medicinal products intended for the treatment of diseases not included in the list. (4) The National Health Insurance Fund shall pay the medicinal products, medical devices and diet foods for special medical purposes for the diseases of the regulation under the previous art. 45, para. 3 which are prescribed until the expiry of the term under para. 3. (5) The appeal of the acts and actions of the National Council for Prices and Reimbursement of Medicinal Products under para. 3 does not stop their performance........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u618	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Kardzhaliev, Ademov and Chakarov. The Commission does not support it. They voted 103 MPs: for 6, against 66, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP EMIL RAINOV and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 105 MPs: 9 against 65, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. And now we are voting § 41 in its version on the Commission report. We are voting on the Commission's version. They voted 111 MPs: 105 against 6, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u619	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to create a new § 43. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 43 which becomes § 42, with the following wording: .............................................................................. Until the establishment of a basic and additional package in accordance with art. 45, para. 2 shall apply the basic package in force at the entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u620	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 42 in its version on the Commission report. They voted 109 MPs: 103, against 6, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u621	§ 43 "A proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Shishkov. It's absolutely identical to Willy Lilkov's.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u622	A strange coincidence even in the punctuation and in the manner of writing a proposal by two different MPs. Read, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u623	In Paragraph 43, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 2 and 3 to be amended as follows: Within one month of the expiry of the period referred to in para. 1 The National Council on Prices and Reimbursement of Medicinal Products shall by default exclude from the Positive Drug List medicinal products for which no concessions have been agreed, except for medicinal products without an alternative, or medicinal products with existing analogues for which the NHIF would pay a higher amount than that of an exception medicinal product. (3) The appeal of the acts and actions of the National Council for Prices and Reimbursement of Medicinal Products under para. 2 does not stop their execution, except for medicinal products without an alternative or medicinal products with analogs available for which the NHIF would pay a higher amount than those of an exception medicinal product. The Commission does not support the proposal. The proposal of Dimitar Shishkov and Valentin Pavlov has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 43: ..................................................... (1) For medicinal products under art. 45, para. 10, 13 and 19 included in the Positive Drug List for which no concessions are agreed, concessions shall be agreed within 6 months of the entry into force of this Act. (2) Within one month of the expiry of the term under para. 1 The National Council on Prices and Reimbursement of Medicinal Products shall, in turn, exclude from the Positive Drug List medicinal products for which no concessions have been agreed. (3) The appeal of the acts and actions of the National Council for Prices and Reimbursement of Medicinal Products under para. 2 does not stop their execution.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u624	Statements? Mr. Kuchukov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u625	Madam President, honourable Members, my speech will be in the same sentence. Let us support the proposal of the MP Willy Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u626	And to Mr. Shishkov, the two proposals are identical.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u627	I think one was withdrawn, so I didn't say it. This will allow the supply of medicines that are rare, which are the so-called "orfan drogs" for which the Casa will not receive discounts, because no one is interested in giving them discounts, and this will allow them to be included on the list. I propose a positive vote on their proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u628	Any other MPs for speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Dimitar Shishkov and Vili Lilkov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 105 MPs: 29, against 32, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 43. We are voting § 43 on the Commission report. They voted 111 MPs: for 101, against 6, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u629	The proposal of the MPs Dimitar Shishkov and Valentin Pavlov has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u630	We are voting § 44 by importer, supported by the Commission. 110 MPs voted: 104 against 6, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u631	Paragraph 45..... a proposal by Dimitar Shishkov and Valentin Pavlov. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. 80...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u632	Supported in principle. You've read a hundred times what order it was made, there's a report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u633	The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) National framework contracts, volumes and prices of medical and dental activities, methodologies for valuation and payment of medical aid and decisions under art. 54, para. 8 and/or 9 which act at the time of the entry into force of this Act shall apply until new national framework contracts are adopted. (2) Until the adoption of new national framework contracts NHIF shall pay the medical assistance under art. 55, para. 2, p. 2 within the limits of the volumes in force at the time of the entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u634	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 45 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 120 MPs [[quoise rises]] : for 112, against 6, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u635	A proposal of the MPs Dimitar Shishkov and Valentin Pavlov has been withdrawn. § 46 supposed by the Parliamentary Representative Daniela Daritkova, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 46: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. (1) Until the adoption of new national framework contracts under art. 53, para. 1 checks by financial inspectors, controllers and dentists, sanctions and their appeals are carried out in the current order. (2) The checks under para. 1, the imposition of sanctions and their appeal which have begun until the adoption of new national framework contracts under art. 53, para. 1 shall be completed in the current order.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u636	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 46 in the version of the Commission report. They voted 119 MPs: 111, against 8 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u637	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 47.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u638	We vote. They voted 114 MPs: for 107 against 7, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u639	§ 48 supposed by the National Representative Dimitar Shishkov, which has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov in § 48 to drop para. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal. Similarly is the proposal of the MP Willy Lilkov in § 48 para. Two down. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 48: ............... 48............................................................... (1) Within three months of the entry into force of this law, the Minister of Health shall issue the ordinance under art. 262, para. 4 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. (2) Within 6 months of the entry into force of this Act, medicinal products with new international non-proprietary names may be included in the Positive Drug List without an assessment of health technologies.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u640	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposals of the MPs Kardzhaliev, Ademov, Chakarov and Willi Lilkov, which are identical. The Commission does not support these proposals. They voted 116 MPs: 29, against 54, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 48 in its version on the Commission report. 110 MPs voted: 102, against 8, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u641	Proposal of the MPs Semir Abu Melih and Dimitar Petrov in Transitional and Final Provisions to create a new § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Within three months of the entry into force of the Act, the NHIF Governor shall organise the dispatch by the general practitioners of the DQM to all health insured persons. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u642	Statements? I won't. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Semir Abu Melih and Dimitar Boychev Petrov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 114 MPs: 19 against 25, 70 abstentions. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u643	By § 49, Valentin Pavlov and Dimitar Shishkov's proposals have been withdrawn. Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Shishkov and Petar Slavov: in Transitional and Final Provisions, a new paragraph shall be created with the following text: "Paragraph 39" shall enter into force from 1 January 2016. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In § 10, t. 2 shall enter into force from 1 January 2016, § 38 shall enter into force six months after the promulgation of the Law in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u644	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Dimitar Shishkov and Petar Slavov. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 113 MPs: 30, against 32, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 49 in its version on the Commission report. They voted 123 MPs: 112, against 10, abstention 1. The proposal is adopted, with this in the second vote and the Law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act. [[Applause from GERB, RB and PF.]] Negative vote, Mr. Emil Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u645	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! I voted against it because with what you so happily accepted, you placed the last nail in the model of solidarity health insurance in Bulgaria. I see that you are all very happy right now, all of you will have to explain to your constituents what you actually voted on today. Days, months, two will pass, you will understand what you have proclaimed. And as early as January, your constituents, be assured that they will demand responsibility from you.... why did you accept these things, why did you violate access to health insurance, why did you again transfer the entire burden of the health system to the poorest, most vulnerable social groups?! And then this joy that we have observed here even by the Minister, pretending to be a clown behind the President of the National Assembly, will not help him neither him nor you! [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-16.u646	Tomorrow is a regular sitting. It's 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned.
