ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u1	I'm opening the meeting. Mr. Hristov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal that point one of today's programme, namely the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land, become point two of our tomorrow's programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u3	A reverse opinion? I won't. I'm voting on this procedural proposal. 140 MPs voted: 101, against 32, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR ANIMAL TREATMENT. The reports were presented yesterday and the debate was opened. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, as you know, yesterday's meeting ended with a procedure on my part so that today we could enter into a debate on this so urgent bill. It is right to remind you that the bill was submitted to the National Assembly on November 23rd at the end of the working day. On 24 November, the Committee on Agriculture and Food was convened urgently, and at the 25th session yesterday, our bill was presented for consideration. First of all, the question arises: what is so urgent about this bill that such a desperate hurry? And second of all, what is the Bill itself? I'd call it a masterpiece. Secondly, I would call it a mockery of the MPs. To find out what this is about, I will give you a few concrete examples in the Bill itself. First of all, in the so-called 20-page project, art. is created. 8a, through which follow-up control (verification) must be carried out, someone clearly doesn't even know what the word and term verification............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Here immediately arises the first interesting question: who will carry out this ex post control of the state veterinarians, the so-called inspectorates and the so-called experts? Who? How and by what criteria? But then there's something even more interesting. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 of the Act in force in some strange way is abolished para. 1 which actually treats what this miracle veterinary establishment is. Even more interesting colleagues is that veterinary establishments with the next amendment are defined under art. 25, para. 1. And now pay attention to what art. 25, para. One! I read it to you verbatim with the adjustments that are offered to us: "Search doctors can practice veterinary practice in a veterinary institution if they are entered in the register under art. 32 and members of the Bulgarian Veterinary Union. I'm asking you to see here somewhere a definition of a veterinary establishment under art. 25? Answer what is a veterinary establishment? I won't. They stay somewhere in the nothingness. And where and how the veterinarians will carry out their activities, the question remains open. But we're moving on. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27 The requirement for professional experience of a person who can be the manager of a veterinary institution is removed, and this professional experience under the current Law should be three years, which is absolutely normal. One person who will be responsible for human health in the first place, for dangerous diseases on animals, of course, should have such experience. However, Article 27 is removed, there remains an incredible confusion, as when registering a veterinary establishment, which we no longer know what it means, in art. 30, para. 2, p. 2 It is required to present the professional experience of the manager who will hold this position. Now tell me: once is not required, twice is required?! What should these individuals do to register such a veterinary establishment? So to speak, the masterpiece becomes total. But let's move on. The confusion becomes totally in art. 30, para. 4 where the Director of the Regional Food Safety Directorate within three days of the submission of the application determines by an order a commission which checks the submitted documents and compliance of the site referred to in the application with the veterinary requirements laid down by a regulation under art. 26, para. 2. Given that the same Article.................................................................................................. 2, it is already written, I read to you verbatim:..Requirements to the veterinary establishment under art. 25, para. One, and there, as you have found out, there is no mention of what the veterinary institution means at all, as well as the type and volume of animal health activity that can be carried out in it, as well as the requirements for good animal health practice, are defined. The question arises: which of all regulations will the Director of the Regional Food Safety Directorate perform a check? Which one? If anyone can answer me, I will be extremely pleased. How will he check the veterinary establishment after the cancellation of para. 1 in art. 26 We no longer know what a veterinary establishment is? In fact, you will need to check some unidentified object which the importer himself has already deleted through the cancellation of art. 26, para. 1. From here I can safely conclude that quick work is a shame to the master. I appeal to my colleagues from the Committee on Agriculture and these nine colleagues who voted with the........ for the adoption of this Bill without the most likely to read it at all that no such exercises should be done at any other time. Moreover: we have not heard the opinions, I have not been able to find written opinions from the professionally involved people in this activity, the veterinarians who have to take care of us. I will not ask you to cancel the list on which preventive action is to be carried out on dangerous diseases. Should I remind you, colleagues, that only in the last four years Bulgaria and Bulgarian livestock farmers have been put to extreme horror? First outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease, second outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease, third epidemic of blue tongue. And all this was because of the fact that the requirements of art. 118 for prevention. And all of a sudden, this thing is out of this law?! We will no longer prevent the Bulgarian people and Bulgarian livestock farmers from such dangerous phenomena, called in professional language epizots! So what do we do? What do we accept? Some beautiful words in the motives of two pages, marked in 14 points for something supposedly nice and at the same time we practically place the entire livestock sector in the inability to carry out prevention. I'm not going to pay attention to the fact that at some point a single laboratory, as it has so far, will be able to test the blood samples. By the time these blood samples come out, half the animals will already be thrashed by foot-and-mouth disease, blue tongue. Is that what we're supposed to accept? Personally, I cannot support this Bill at first reading. I pay attention to those who have done it, withdraw it and write it the way they should write it. Once again, the way this Law of Members of the National Assembly has been introduced is, first of all, a mockery of the Members of the National Assembly. Secondly, it actually makes a Frankenstein who can in no way serve animal health, protect Bulgarian livestock farmers, and, most importantly, protect the health of the Bulgarian people, which is now a matter of national security. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u5	Replices to Mr. Bayraktarov? To speak, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Members of my parliamentary group, members of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, did not support this bill at first reading, and the entire parliamentary group will not support it in plenary. What is most important to us and justifies our position? I will not dwell on a number of specific shortcomings and omissions from the Bill, as the previous Member of the National Assembly, but will summarize that we are building our position on our own experts and on the opinions provided by the management of the National Council of the Bulgarian Veterinary Union, as well as the other opinions of the stakeholders in the settlement of public relations in this vital sphere, provided to the Members of the National Council of the Bulgarian Veterinary Union. What's the most important thing? The most important thing is that in the course of the preparation for more than six months no expert agreement has been reached on this amendment to the Law whether it corresponds to the absolutely necessary amendments to the current Law. The current law is assessed as a law that must be replaced by a whole new law, because the law adopted in 2013 has led to chaos and serious problems. The proposed bill does not respond to the need to overcome this chaos and to better resolve the issues that exist in this area. Only this conclusion of the experts is enough not to support the Bill at first reading. I will only address two points that my colleague has also addressed with a slightly different interpretation. Who's one of the first problems? The problem is the principle question: can the person performing the activity have control functions over the activity and other entities who are called on to carry out the veterinary work? In principle, this division is mandatory. It is not achieved to the desired extent, and with the amendments to § 2 and 3 of the Project, it creates even greater ambiguity and the problems that arise in the expert opinions that I have spoken of, this is very serious. As regards the withdrawal of that paragraph from the current law which regulates certain types of veterinary establishments, the importer must have some grounds. Because so regulated fixed veterinary establishments act and now perform their functions. Perhaps the importer means, by abolishing the current definition of veterinary institutions, to create the possibility by regulatory acts to introduce the so-called mobile veterinarians, by which there may be a reason for the aid to move closer to the site of the herd, to the farm and so on, but that is not in the reasons. And when there is not going to be a regulation in the Law, and there will also be an opportunity to be decided by a legislative act, for good reason the people who practice this profession are afraid, afraid for their investments and for the deterioration of the service which farmers themselves deserve and who guarantee the prevention and better relations between veterinary staff and livestock farmers themselves. Just so that it is, and what my colleague before me said, the importer must conclude that if the assessment of the proposed amendment of the Law is that it does not meet the public need, it does not overcome the shortcomings of the current Law, whatever the reasons that we have heard briefly in the Commission, and they were that the prevention will be improved, that the financing will be optimized, that the interaction between farmers and veterinarians will be improved, even if they had such intentions, it is obvious that the proposed text does not overcome these shortcomings. I'll say one more thing. For those 40 minutes, in which we watched the Bill in the Commission, because it was in a hurry, even if the importers had serious arguments to answer us, they had neither the time nor the opportunity to do so. I call them if they have arguments of their country, let them stand here in front of the Chamber and respond to what I have said, to what my colleague before me has spoken, and to what the experts of the health care professionals point out in their opinion. Let there be one such debate and if they have the power to convince us to respond, vote positively. But if they do not, let us show that this type of law should not and cannot be adopted in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u7	Any lines to Mr. Bojinov? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! The Reformation Block Parliamentary Group will support the proposed Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Veterinary Activity Act. I very much agree with the criticisms that have been made regarding the period of discussion of the Bill, but I would like to remind you that it has been discussed, discussed, consulted for more than six months and, ultimately, an option has been proposed, which has been reviewed by the Committee on Agriculture and Food. In closing my speech, I will make a procedural proposal to extend the period between the first and second votes in order to take into account all the proposals made by the branch organisations, which, by the way, have entered the Agriculture Commission in time and were allocated to the MPs. It's a very specific subject. I would not say that I am the specialist who can comment in detail on everything written in the Law, but rushing is related to the idea of starting the new year with new rules, with new regulations to ease the activities of Bulgarian livestock farmers, to ease the activities of the Food Safety Agency and to make a better control body. In this regard, I call for us to be specific in our proposals and let us between the first and second votes take them to the Commission. The Commission will sit openly, as always, and we will discuss them and they can find a place in plenary for a second vote. I am making two procedural proposals, Madam President. The first proposal is to be admitted to the Chamber Mr. Evgeni Macaveev. Secretary-General of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and Anita Pashova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u9	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to plenary. Vote 113 MPs: 97 against 8, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, invite the guests. Replies to Mr. Hristov's statement? I won't. For speech Prof. Stankov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u10	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The bill proposed at first reading to amend and supplement the Animal Health Act has been long expected and is essential. I agree with all those notes that were made in advance. I'll say in advance that I'm joining most of them, but I'll say there are a few positive things. And I'm going to say a few flaws that need to be considered. What is positive about this bill is that changes in the legal and legal framework of the European Union are reflected, which is important. Some poorly working texts of the Animal Health Act are being updated. It is positive for me, which is not accepted and in the Commission was the same, and in the proposals that are being made by the word organizations, is the dropping of the three-year internship limit for acquiring the right to open a management of a veterinary institution, for which we, the people who are preparing the staff for veterinary medicine, for practice, have long insisted that this should happen and that this discriminatory restriction should be removed. So we support it, despite the objections of the word organizations. We believe that another important positive proposal that comes into this Bill and I very much welcome is the preparation of a state preventive programme, and that is most important perhaps in this Law, for three years to come. So far it's been year to year, which has created problems with public procurement, with the provision of vaccines and diagnostics. It is also positive that sanctions for the uncontrolled cultivation of productive animals and pets are being increased. But there are a few things here that need to be added. Those who allow free movement of animals must surely be sanctioned. This is what we have proposed in another bill, which will soon pass at second reading. Because, especially, pets are everywhere, they are on playgrounds, on grasslands, and they carry a number of diseases. There are proposals that are disturbing and insufficiently justified. It is noticed that many undertakings are being burdened by practitioners of veterinarians and that civil servants from municipal and regional food safety services are being unloaded. I think there should be some adjustments here, because what is proposed can hardly be implemented by private veterinarians. The bill proposes that some of the preventive programmes be implemented by civil servants. This has already been said, it is absolutely illogical and unacceptable for people who exercise control to carry out these activities, which they must then control themselves. This must definitely be dismissed. It is in selection and reproduction, and it is extremely unacceptable. It is impossible to implement the envisaged deadline for entering the data into the information system. Forty-eight hours are required to register newborn animals. So many hours are also required for the slaughtered, for the dead animals. Conscious organizations offer seven days. This is the right thing to do, and it needs to be put in the Project. It is with great question mark that there is an obligation for veterinarians to visit establishments at least once every two months. There are two sides to this problem here. One is that if they visit every two months, the likelihood of finding diseases and taking measures is much greater, which is positive. But the question arises: who will pay? Because that's not definitely the thing that needs to be solved. Why is it necessary, when there is no problem, that practitioners who are already very busy visiting farms? And this is stress for animals, because many other things are also required to check animal numbers, which should not happen in two months. For me, it is completely absurd the mandatory introduction of shepherding. I have also said on other occasions that there is no such phenomenon in Europe and in normal countries, especially where there is parcel grazing. And we're going to introduce this as an obligation for all livestock farmers?! This can be done for small herds, for rural herds that are combined, but for real farming it is absolutely unacceptable and pointless. In the Bill very little attention is paid to the preventive measures. That is what some of the colleagues and preventive events said. There are very serious problems in veterinary medicine, colleagues who are not the subject of this bill. It is necessary to restore the disinfection, disinsecting and deratization system. Under current legislation, veterinarians are not allowed to make disinfection companies. And you see what happened to mosquitos, parasites, blue tongue. This is permissible only for humane doctors, so this is something that should be given as a right to both veterinary services and practitioners to organise such companies. It's a serious problem with the elevators. Since the 16th era in 1990, there have been only two remaining in the Northeastern Bulgaria in Shumen and in Varna. Imagine the contagious sick animals that have to go from Blagoevgrad and go to these scenes, isn't it spreading the disease? This is what needs to be reconsidered and we really need to solve this problem because it is a very serious, very big problem. It is essential to create a Fund that has existed for 100 years and has been closed in 1999. This is very necessary and must be urgently decided. There must be a reserve fund when animals are killed, payments must be made as quickly as possible, because the owners suffer all these damages, and not always they are responsible for it. So this Fund can help precisely timely payments, as it has been many years in advance. In veterinary medicine it is essential and this should be taken into account for integration. First of all, integration between the two organizations between private practitioners and the state. This pointless confrontation and this front is high time to stop, to avoid. This is far from the attention of those who exercise the profession, but it is extremely important. Because Europe wants to communicate with an organization. Then the preventive problems and control and everything else will be solved. So this is important. One integration between the word organizations of veterinarians and veterinary faculties, because there is equipment in the Central Institute, but there are no specialists, and there are specialists in the faculties, but there are no equipment. We need to integrate all these activities and indeed we need to make a working law. I've been thinking a lot about whether to abstain or support the bill. But given that there are several things that are urgent and need to be resolved, and the other I have made a connection with the Faculty and with people who are relevant to these problems, and they have asked me to support this bill, while making all these adjustments which Mr. Hristov proposed. So I propose that we support the bill, despite its many shortcomings and imperfections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u11	Thank you, Professor. Stankov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mrs. Sultanka Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u12	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I support everything Professor said. Stankov, about the flaws in this bill. We of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front will abstain for several reasons. The first is that we really could not accept that civil servants, and in fact the state health inspectors from the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, will implement measures on preventive programmes and will control this activity. Colleagues, all European regulations show that we have to take great account of who performs and who controls the activity in a single structure. So we cannot agree with those who implement the measures to carry out control activities. At the same time, it is extremely important for us to have freedom of negotiation between people who raise animals and veterinarians. This who, how many times will visit a livestock farm is exceptional and only negotiated between the veterinarian and the owner of the animals. Moreover, when there is a particular problem, this veterinarian can visit this farm and five times a month. We cannot say that he should do this visit, for example, every two months once. I will not list any other problems that we have seen in this Bill, but I would like to say that our opinion is that only cosmetic changes have been made here and we need to think in the direction of a whole new Animal Treatment Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. The next statement is from Mrs. Svetla Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We will not support the proposed bill for amending the Animal Health Act for several reasons. They are related, firstly, to the fact that six months the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is working on this bill in relation to the events that took place in 2015. "Insects," "syn language" and all that has created the prerequisites for a serious problem in the country and the outbreaks to be contained. As a result, a Bill was published, which had to be discussed publicly. Unfortunately, what is offered to us in the National Assembly at this time is significantly different from what has been discussed in working groups. That is why you are hearing that the National Union of Veterinary Doctors strongly opposes the proposed changes, which in some cases we can call scandalous and far from reality. They will not lead to an improvement in animal health. There's only a few things I'd like to draw your attention to. The state prevention program. It is mandatory to finance it every year by the state, this is required by the European Commission, it is written in European regulations. Every year by May the Programme must be ready, public procurement must be carried out and must be carried out within June of July, when the deadline is when it is to be made as a commitment of the State. This doesn't happen every year! Because public procurement, private labs and interests that arise in the supply of any supplies!? And this year, the State Prevention Programme is held in November for 25 days, which does not solve a single question, neither to veterinarians, nor to livestock farmers. Because the month of November is not the appropriate period for it to be implemented, given the physiology which, respectively, the professor will say, must be implemented. Now it's said that we're going to do the State Prevention Program for three years. It'll be the same! June again! What does it mean three years after you won't have funding and you don't have funding because in the Budget Act this is not provided for in any form, you will not have public procurement and this wishing text will remain as recorded again as the current system? It is therefore better to find other mechanisms for the administration to do its job in time and to implement the Law as it is now. It does not prevent it from being every year, but to meet the deadlines accordingly. The identification system is a serious problem in livestock farming. It does not work as it is written in its rules, therefore creates exceptional problems. Now we tell veterinarians that within 48 hours they should record any change in the number of animals. Guys, I'm sorry, but that can't happen! For 48 hours, the I.D. system hasn't worked for 12 hours, and no one has access to it, and if we add that there's not all the Internet in all the areas, we've recorded a fine of 20,000. BGN if the veterinarian does not do so. There hasn't been a deadline so far. In the working group it was said that in seven to nine days changes can reflect, but in 48 hours it is impossible to physically affect the movement of animals. This is also a problem that is not solved in the Law. The bill provides for an awful lot of sanctions. For veterinarians, the sanctions are from 5 to 20 thousand. BGN, from 5 thousand to 20 thousand. lv.! How did they decide that such sanctions could be borne by veterinarians? I can't explain. This means that the control authorities must carry out checks every day and impose sanctions accordingly. And the last thing I want to focus on is the obligation that veterinary doctors have to do clinical exams every two months. It is written that they are obliged, therefore there is a penalty, but it does not say who pays. It is a commitment under the state preventive program, but the state will not pay! That means the farmer will pay for transport, supplies. Excuse me, but a form loaded with 15 - 20% of the costs of veterinary services cannot withstand any European requirements. Then we cannot talk about any competitiveness of Bulgarian livestock, regardless of the wishes we have, and in what direction we implement them through the legislation. I therefore propose that we do not support this Law, return to juvie, reconcile the requirements and possible options for the realization of long-term policy in the business sector, and that they present to us the bill of our attention, because the Law, as it is written, will result in greater harm than the current Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Are there any other statements on the bill? I won't. The discussion is closed. We are going to vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Animal Health Act, No 502-01-95, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 November 2015. They voted 135 MPs: for 89, against 15, abstention 31. The bill was passed at first reading. Mr. Hristov's procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal that the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes be extended to 10 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u17	A reverse opinion? I won't. We vote. Vote 127 MPs: 114 against 8, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point of the weekly program: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR ACCESS TO PUBLIC INFORMATION. Mrs Marinska will report to us the Commission's proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u18	Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Information Access Act, No 502-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers, adopted at the first vote on 6 October 2015. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Public Information Access Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u19	We vote. Vote 108 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u20	According to § 1, there is a proposal from the National Representative Ivan Valkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Snezana Dukova, made on the basis of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2 the following 1. In para. 3 the words "paper, electronic or other' are replaced by The following shall be added after the word "Maritime" and shall be added "Military." 2. A new para is being created. 4. The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u21	Statements? I won't. We vote § 1. Vote 95 MPs: for 87 MPs, against none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u22	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. Proposal by the National Representative Snezana Dukova under art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 1, t. 5 the words "personal information' shall be replaced by "personal data'.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u23	Statements under § 2 and the new § 3? I won't. Ann Block, we vote paragraphs 2 and 3. Vote 98 MPs: 94, none, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u24	According to § 3 a proposal was received by the MP Ivan Valkov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Atanas Merdjanov, Chavdar Georgiev, Philip Popov, Krasimir Yankov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 2 after the word "Requirement" is added to the texts of the the regulatory and general administrative acts issued by the authority (b) c. 4 after the word "address', a comma shall be placed and an e-mail address added; c) create t. 5-17: It's five o'clock. rules of procedure and internal rules relating to the provision of administrative services to citizens; 6. strategies, plans, programs and activity reports; 7. information on the budget and financial statements of the administration, which is published under the Public Finance Act; 8. information on conducted public contracts designated for publication in the buyer profile under the Public Procurement Act; 9. draft regulations together with the reasons, respectively the report and the results of the public discussion of the project; 10. Notifications of the opening of the proceedings for the issue of a common administrative act under art. 66 of the Administrative Procedure Code, including the main considerations for the issuance of the act and forms and the time limits for the participation of the persons concerned in the proceedings; 11. information on the exercise of the right of access to public information, the terms and conditions for reuse of information, the fees under art. 41g and the formats in which the information is maintained; 12. notices of competitions for civil servants; 13. the information to be published under the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest; 14. information which is public under the Law on the Protection of Classified Information and the Act on its Implementation; 15. information under art. 14, para. 2, p. 1-3; 16. the information provided more than three times in accordance with Chapter Three; 17. other information specified by law. 2. In para. 2 after the word "supplied" "reuses of public sector information" shall be added. 3. They're creating an al. 3 and 4: The persons referred to in Article 3 (3) shall be the persons referred to in Article 3 (1). 3, para. 2, p. 1 periodically publish up-to-date information on their activities corresponding to the information under para. 1, t. 1, 4, 5, 6, 8, 11, 15, 16 and 17. (4) Public sector organisations, including public libraries (including libraries of universities), archives and museums, shall publish all the conditions for the provision of the information for reuse of their website and the portal under art. 15 г...........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u25	Paragraph 4 statements? I won't. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 97 MPs: 89, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u26	A proposal has been made under § 4 by the MP Ivan Valkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15a The following 1. In para. 1 shall be added to the entities referred to in Article 1. 3, para. 2, p. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: In section "Access to information" on the websites under para. 1 shall be reported in the data referred to in Article 1. 15, para. 1, t. 4 et c. 11 and the annual reports under para. 2, existing internal rules on access to public information, regulations on the cost of providing access to information under art. 20, para. 2 and re-use of public sector information under art. 41g, the order of access to public registers held by administrative structures in the executive system. 3. They're creating an al. 3 and 4: Each head of art shall be the head of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors. 15, para. 1 annually (4) The information referred to in art. 15 shall be published, updated accordingly, within three working days of the adoption of the relevant act or the establishment of the relevant information, and if the act is promulgated within three working days of the promulgation, unless another period is laid down by law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u27	Statements? I won't. We vote § 5. They voted 108 MPs: 99, against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u28	Under § 5, a proposal was received by the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Ivan Valkov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Atanas Merdjanov, Chavdar Georgiev, Philip Popov and Krasimir Yankov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov under art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and Open-to-date publishing Art. 15b. (1) Each public sector organisation shall annually plan the phased publication on the Internet in an open format of the informational arrays and resources it maintains, access to which it is free. (2) The executive bodies shall include in the annual objectives for the activities of the relevant administration under art. 33a of the Law on Administration aims to ensure the phased publication on the Internet of the informational arrays and resources under para. 1. (3) The Council of Ministers shall annually adopt a list of data sets to be published in an open format on the Internet. Platform for access to public information Art. 15c. (1) The administration of the Council of Ministers shall establish and maintain a platform for access to public information. (2) The platform shall enable applications for access to information to be submitted. (3) Each obliged entity under art. 3, para. 1 publishes on the platform under para. 1 applications submitted through the platform, their decisions and the public information provided, subject to the protection of the applicant's personal data under the Personal Data Protection Act. (4) In the event of refusal to grant access to public information, the decision shall also be served in accordance with art. 39 of the relevant debtor under art. 3, para. 1. Open Data Portal Art. 15 years. (1) The administration of the Council of Ministers shall establish and maintain a portal for open data. (2) Public sector organisations shall publish on the portal under para. 1 information under art. 15b, access to which is available. (3) The order and the way to publish the information under para. 2 shall be determined by a regulation adopted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u29	Statements, colleagues, according to § 6, creating new members from 15b to 15d? I won't. We are voting § 6 on the report. Vote 101 MPs: 97 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u30	Under § 6 there is a proposal made by the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov, according to the order art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 7: .............................................................................. In Chapter 2, Section I is created art. 16a: "Contribution on re-use of information Art. 16a. (1) The administration of the Council of Ministers shall draw up every three years a summary report on the availability of information on reuse provided by public sector bodies, the conditions under which it is provided and the legal protection practices. Public sector organisations annually send the administration of the Council of Ministers reports on these circumstances. (2) The report shall be made public and made available to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u31	Statements? I won't. We vote § 7. They voted 99 MPs: 89, against 3, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u32	Proposal by the National Representative Snezana Dukova under art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 8. ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19 words "Private information' shall be replaced by "Personal data'.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u33	Statements? I won't. We vote § 8. Vote 98 MPs: 93 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u34	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 9. Under paragraphs 7, 8, 9, and 10, no proposals have been received. The Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u35	We are voting, colleagues, paragraphs 7 to 10 by importer, which are respectively 9 to 12 by the Commission report. Vote 96 MPs: 87, against 1, abstention 8. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u36	According to § 11 there is a proposal of the MP Ivan Valkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35 are created. 3 and 4: Where the applicant has requested access to information to be provided by electronic means and has indicated an e-mail address for receipt, the authority shall send the decision to provide access to the specified e-mail address together with a copy of the information or internet address containing the data. In such cases, no minutes shall be drawn up under para. 2 and no provision costs shall be paid. (4) If the applicant has changed the e-mail address without notifying the authority or has indicated an incorrect or non-existent address, the information shall be deemed to have been received from the date of its dispatch.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u37	Statements? I won't. We vote § 13. Voted 103 MPs: 94 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u38	Proposal from the MPs Atanas Merdjanov, Chavdar Georgiev, Philip Popov, Krasimir Yankov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 14: §14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: The application shall not apply where the application is submitted via the public information access platform or by electronic means. According to § 12 there is a proposal of the MP Ivan Valkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37, para. 1, t. 2 the words.. does not have its explicit written consent The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The public sector information shall be provided in a format and in a language in which it has been collected, respectively created, or in another format at the discretion of the public sector organisation and in an open, machine-based format, together with the corresponding metadata. The provision of the data in an open machine reading format shall be carried out in accordance with the objectives of art. 15b. The format and metadata in these cases shall comply with official open standards. 2. In para. 2 the word "supplier" is deleted, the word "reproduction" is replaced by "adapter" and after the word "supplier" is added. 3. In para. 4 the words "e-mail address" shall be replaced by "e-mail address." 4. They're creating an al. 5-8: With the regulation under art. 15d, para. 3 Standard conditions for the reuse of public sector information and for the publication of public sector information in an open format for commercial or non-commercial purposes shall be laid down. Those conditions shall not impose unnecessary restrictions on reuse or restriction of competition. (6) Public sector organisations shall provide for re-use the information unconditionally or under conditions specified by them within the limits laid down in the regulation under art. 15d, para. Three standard terms. (7) Information representing an intellectual property object for which libraries, including libraries of higher schools, museums and archives, are entitled to use, shall be made available for reuse if such reuse is permitted by the holder of the rights. (8) The use of information from archives of the National Archive Fund shall be carried out under the terms and conditions of Chapter 6 of the National Archive Fund Act and in compliance with this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u39	Statements, colleagues, under paragraphs 14, 15 and 16? I won't. We are voting on the Anblock paragraphs in the version of the Commission. 99 MPs voted: 94, none, abstention 5. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u40	Under § 14, a proposal was made by the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and the following amendments and additions shall be made to it: (a) c. 1 shall be added at the end of the application of a law, regulation or statutes and/or act by which the public task is entrusted; (b) point 4 is amended as follows: "4." ownership of schools, universities (except libraries of higher schools), scientific and research organisations, including research organisations established for the dissemination of research results, and cultural organisations with the exception of libraries, museums and archives. c) create t. 5-10: It's five o'clock. representing classified information; 6. containing statistical secrecy collected and stored by the National Statistical Institute or the Statistical Authority; 7. containing manufacturing or commercial secrecy or professional secrecy within the meaning of law; 8. for the receipt of which the applicant must prove legal interest under law; 9. representing parts of documents containing only emblems, crests and distinguishing marks; 10. containing personal data whose reuse constitutes inadmissible access or inadmissible processing of personal data under the Personal Data Protection Act. 2. They're creating an al. 2-4: In the cases referred to in para. 1 for reuse only that part of the information to which access is not restricted shall be provided. (3) In the event of public interest, the public sector organisation shall provide for reuse information containing production or commercial secrecy. (4) In the cases under para. 3 The public sector organisation may prohibit re-use for commercial purposes or in a manner that would result in unfair competition or other restriction of competition within the meaning of Title 2 of the Protection of Competition Act. According to § 15 the proposal from the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov under art. 80. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. Article 41d is amended as follows: "Access to search for information" Art. 41 years old. Public sector organisations shall provide conditions for the easy search of public sector information by maintaining and publishing lists of basic documents and relevant metadata through various online access mechanisms and in machine-readable format or otherwise appropriate. If possible, public sector organisations shall provide conditions for multilingual search for documents. The Commission supports the text of the importer under § 16. Paragraph 17 "The Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u41	Colleagues, speeches referred to in paragraphs 17 and 18 in the version of the Commission and the two supported import texts which become § 19 and § 20 respectively in the report, are there? I won't. Anblok, we vote paragraphs 17 to 20 inclusive. They voted 102 MPs: 94, against 3, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u42	According to § 18 the proposal from the National Representative Ivan Valkov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov under art. 80. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. Article 41g is amended as follows: "Way to pay" Art. 41g. (1) Public sector information shall be provided for reuse free of charge or after payment of a fee which may not exceed the material costs of reproduction and the provision of information. (2) The principle of determining the fee referred to in para. 1 shall not apply to fees collected: 1. from public sector organisations which under the public task award act are obliged to realise revenue to cover a significant part of the costs associated with the performance of the public task; the obligation to realise revenue shall be determined in advance and published electronically; 2. for the reuse of information in respect of which the public sector organisation is required to make sufficient revenue in order to cover a significant part of the costs associated with the collection, production, reproduction and dissemination of information, under a law or established administrative practice; the obligation shall be determined in advance and published by electronic means; 3. libraries, including libraries of higher schools, museums and archives. (3) In the cases under para. 2, p. 1 and 2 public sector bodies shall calculate the total fees depending on the categories and amount of data provided for reuse in accordance with objective, transparent and verifiable criteria established by a methodology adopted by the Council of Ministers. The total revenue of the public organisation from the delivery and authorisation of the reuse of the information for the accounting period concerned shall not exceed the costs of collection, production, reproduction and dissemination together with a reasonable return on investment calculated in accordance with the accounting principles applicable to the public organisation. (4) In the cases under para. 2, p. 3 The total revenue from the delivery and authorisation of the reuse of the information for the accounting period concerned shall not exceed the costs of collection, production, reproduction, distribution, storage and acquisition of rights to use the information together with a reasonable return on investment calculated in accordance with the accounting principles applicable by the public organisation. (5) The amount of fees shall be determined: 1. for fees charged by the state authority with a tariff accepted by the Council of Ministers; 2. for fees charged by another public sector organisation by the head of the organisation; 3. for the fees charged by the municipalities by the municipal council, and the determined fees cannot exceed the fees under point 3. 1. (6) The amount of fees on which they are calculated, the factors taken into account in the calculation, and any additional conditions, if any, shall be published, including by electronic means in the presence of a website. On request, the way in which these charges have been calculated shall also be indicated in relation to the specific request for reuse. (7) The amounts of fees for re-use of information shall be entered under the budget of the public sector organisation concerned. (8) The Council of Ministers shall review every three years the methodology under para. 3 based on the report under art. 16a, para. 1. (9) If a public sector organisation does not determine the amount of the fees under para. 5, t. 2 and 3, the organisation shall provide this information for reuse free of charge or after payment of a fee determined by the tariff under para. 5, t. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u43	Statements? I won't. We vote § 21. Vote 98 MPs: 93 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u44	According to § 19 there is a proposal received by the National Representative Ivan Valkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41z para. 1 is amended as The Head of the Public Sector Organisation or a person designated by him shall examine the request under art. 41f within 14 days of its entry and decide to provide or refuse to provide information on re-use, which shall be communicated to the applicant. Under paragraphs 20, 21 and 22, no proposals have been received by Members of the National Assembly. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and shall be renumbered accordingly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u45	Statements, colleagues, on the reported paragraphs? I won't. We are voting for paragraphs 22 in the version of the Commission, up to 25, the rest being by importer, supported by the Commission, with a new numbering. We vote. 110 MPs voted: 99, against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u46	Under § 23 a proposal has been made by the MP Ivan Valkov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 and does not support it under points 2 and 3: "2." In § 1, t. 4 a new letter shall be created with the following text: (d) has 50 or more per cent state or municipal capital participation as well as its subsidiaries controlled by it companies and companies in which it has 50 or more per cent capital participation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u47	We're withdrawing the motion on t. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u48	Point 3 is withdrawn, we get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u49	In that case, I read the Commission's version: The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Paragraph 1 of the Additional provision makes the following amendments and additions: 1. point 1 is amended as follows: "1." "Material carrier" is any paper, technical, magnetic, electronic or other medium regardless of the type of text recorded, plan, map, photography, audio, visual or audio-visual image, file and the like. 2. In point (a), point (a) (a) the words "Public law' shall be a legal entity which, regardless of its commercial or production nature, is created for the purpose of satisfying public interests and for which any of the following conditions are met and shall be replaced by the words "Public law' shall be a legal entity for which any of the following conditions is met: (b) A third sentence is created: The Public Legal Organization is also a library of higher schools, a public library within the meaning of the Public Libraries, Museum or Archive Act, which is financed by state budget funds or municipal budgets. 3. They're creating a t. 7-15: "7." "Machinochim format" is an electronic data format that is structured in such a way that, without being converted into another format, it allows software applications to identify, identify and extract specific data, including individual facts and their internal structure. 8. "Open format' is an electronic data format that does not require the use of a specific platform or specific software for the reuse of content and is made available to the public without restrictions that would prevent the reuse of information. 9. The Open Data Portal is a single, central, public web-based information system that ensures the publication and management of information for re-use in an open, machine-readable format together with the corresponding metadata. The portal is built in a way that allows the complete extraction of the published information or parts thereof. 10. "Open standard' is a standard that is established in writing and describes the requirements specifications for how to ensure software interoperability. 11. The higher school is a school within the meaning of art. 17 of the Law on Higher Education. 12. The data describing the structure of the information shall be the subject of re-use. 13. "Internet address" is a useful resource identifier or a unified resource locator. 14. The platform for access to public information is a single, central, public web-based information system that ensures the application of access and publication of public information. 15. "Archives" are the central state archives and regional state archives regarding the state archives held by them by the National Archive Fund under art. 6, para. 1, t. 1 of the National Archive Fund Act, as well as public institutions under art. 6, para. 1, t. 2 and 3 of the National Archive Fund Act in relation to the archives and archive collections held by them under art. 33, para. 1, t. 1, 6 "8" and para. 2 of the National Archive Fund Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u50	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just a little bit. As we have already said, my colleague Dimitrov and I withdrew the proposal on this point. 3. We thank the Commission and our fellow Members who supported us on this. 1. I'm gonna have to ask you to put it to the vote, and so on. 2, which is not supported by the Commission, and I will very briefly protect the meaning of these proposals. What the Commission has supported is actually enabling public information to be required of such important structures, such as the Bulgarian Energy Holding. You know, it's a state-owned company. So far, as the text in the Law was written, some other guides of this holding have given the opportunity to claim that it was not designed to meet socially useful objectives. They had at least such an interpretation and very often refused public information and, again, I stress, it is a 100% state-owned company. What the Commission has supported on this point. 1, it will now give no doubt to accept that this company was created for precisely this purpose and that it is obliged to provide public information under this Law. ) (a.k.a. 2 However, where we are not supported, we would like companies that are subsidiaries of such structures, i.e. the subsidiaries of the Bulgarian Energy Holding also to be subject to control under the Public Information Access Act, i.e. not to be able to claim that they are outside the scope of the Law and to refuse information. You know, there are companies in which the Bulgarian Energy Holding owns 50 percent or more and, unfortunately, precedents do not lack to deny such information. In order for you to understand me better, I will end with the following thing we did before in the Law on the Court of Auditors. It was said that such an audit could be commissioned by the National Assembly of the Court of Auditors to carry out in respect of a company in which the State has more than 50% participation. We did it 50% or more than 50%. You can see the difference right away. Here, our motives are similar to that of becoming 50 or more per cent state or municipal participation, that is, there is no doubt where, for example, the percentage is 51, that it could possibly be claimed that it is subject or not subject to control under the Public Information Access Act. Colleagues, I'm asking you to back us up on this. 2. I think this is a useful proposal, which in any case is in the public interest and will satisfy these needs for information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u52	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. First, honourable Members, we are voting on the unsupported proposal by the gentlemen Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov for this. Two, which was just argued. They voted 102 MPs: 20, against 8, abstention 74. The offer is not accepted. Now, honourable Members, we are voting on the text of the importer edited by the Commission for § 23, which has a new numbering § 26. We are voting in a text edited and supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 83 against 1, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u53	"Additional provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u54	Statements? I can't see. We are voting on Anblok, honourable Members, the name of the section "Additional provision" and § 27 supported by the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: for 86, against 1, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u55	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 28.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u56	Statements? I won't. We are voting, honourable Members, the name of the section of the "Transitional and Final Provisions" and the text of the importer for § 25, which becomes § 28. Vote 89 MPs: 84 against 1, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u57	Paragraph 26 "A proposal from the National Representative Ivan Valkov." The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26, which shall become § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... The Council of Ministers shall: 1. Within six months of the promulgation of this law, the Official Journal of the European Union shall adopt the regulation under art. 15d, para. 3 and the tariff under art. 41g, para. 5, t. 1. 2. By 1 June 2017, the platform for access to public information shall be established and shall enable applications to be submitted through it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u58	Statements? I won't. We vote edited by the Commission by the importer for § 26, which becomes § 29. Vote 92 MPs: 84 against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u59	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u60	Statements? I won't. We are voting in favour of the Commission texts of the importer for § 30 and § 31. They voted 86 MPs: 77, against 1, abstention 8. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u61	Under § 29, there is a proposal from the National Representative Ivan Valkov, which the Commission supports. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 29, which shall become § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) The executive bodies shall publish within three months of the entry into force of this Act: 1. information under art. 15, para. 1 and para. 4 subject to the requirements of art. 15a, para. 2, except for information on fees under art. 41g, which shall be published within one month of the promulgation of the tariff under art. 41g, para. 5, t. 1 or the publication of the tariff under art. 41g, para. 5, t. 3; 2. the list referred to in art. 15a, para. 3. (2) Public sector organisations which are not executive bodies shall publish the information under art. 15, para. 4 and the tariff under art. 41g, para. 5, t. 2 within six months of the entry into force of this law. (3) The obliged entities under art. 3, para. 1 from 1 June 2017 provide the opportunity to submit applications for access to public information through the public information access platform under art. 15c.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u62	Are there any statements under § 29? I can't see. We vote on the text of the importer edited by the Commission for § 29, which becomes § 32. They voted 93 MPs: 85 against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u63	The Commission proposes to reject § 30 as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 2 and § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u64	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 30. 86 MPs voted: 80, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u65	Proposal by the National Representative Snezana Dukova on the grounds of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal to create a new § 33: ................................................ The provision of § 1, t. 2 concerning Art. 2, para. 4 shall apply to the information established after 1 April 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u66	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create § 33. Vote 91 MPs: 84 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u67	Under § 31, there is a proposal from the National Representative Ivan Valkov, which the Commission supports. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31, which shall become § 34: ................. The law shall enter into force one month after its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union with the exception of: 1. paragraph 6 concerning art. 15d, para. 2, which shall enter into force nine months after the promulgation of this law in the Official Journal of the European Union, and 2 paragraph 6 concerning Art. 15c and § 9 on the words "or through the public information access platform', which shall enter into force on 1 June 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u68	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text edited by the Commission for § 31, which is proposed to become § 34. Vote 91 MPs: 84 against 4, abstention 6. The proposal was adopted by which the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Access to Public Information was adopted in the second vote. Thank you, Mrs. Marinska. Please come in for a procedure, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u69	Mr. President, honourable Members, I am making a procedure for changing the agenda of the sitting. I propose that the next item for today's meeting be point ten "A bill for ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u70	A counteroffer? I can't see. We are voting on the motion made by the Member State to make point eight of the programme voted. Vote 89 MPs: 78, against 5, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT FOR A EUROPEAN COMPANY BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE EUROPEAN COSMICAL AGENCY. Importer is the Council of Ministers of 5 October 2015. The bill is assigned to four committees. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. Mrs. Saveklieva, please submit the report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u71	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency, No 502-02-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2015. At its regular meeting held on 28 October 2015, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency. According to the importer, ratification of the Agreement would contribute to progressive development and implementation of the common European space policy, as well as to exploration and absorption of the cosmos for peaceful purposes. The ratification of the Agreement will enable Bulgarian companies (including small and medium-sized enterprises) and academic and research organisations to participate in projects on the implementation of space-related activities, which will extend the boundaries of space-related scientific knowledge and research. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above and on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft for ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency, No 502-02-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. The Foreign Policy Committee report will present the public representative Boris Stanimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u73	Mr President, honourable Members, I will read: ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency, No 502-02-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2015. At a meeting held on 4 November 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency, signed on 8 April 2015 in Sofia. The reasons for the bill were presented by Deputy Minister of Economy Daniela Vezeva. The Agreement will establish the desire expressed by the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria to implement the European Space Policy and to strengthen cooperation with the European Space Agency within the framework of the adopted cooperation approach of the European Cooperation Countries, which will contribute to progressive development and implementation of the common European Space Policy and to explore and absorb space exclusively for peaceful purposes. The possibility of access of Bulgarian companies including small and medium-sized enterprises and academic and research organisations to participation in projects on the implementation of activities related to space is provided. This will extend the boundaries of space-related scientific knowledge and research to support innovation and competitiveness. With the adoption of the status of a co-operative country, wide opportunities are open to our country to conduct an active policy of cooperation with the other member states of the European Space Agency. Opportunities for maximum utilisation of capacity and expertise shall be found and contribute to strengthening the trend towards autonomous construction and exploitation of space infrastructures and systems. Annexes I and II of the Agreement lay down, respectively, the Plan for European Cooperation States, the objectives, rules and procedures, as well as the mandate and rules of procedure of the Committee of the European Cooperation Plan. The minimum financial contribution necessary for each European cooperative country to participate in the European cooperative country plan for a period of 5 years shall be 5 million. Euros. These funds will be restored by providing Bulgaria with specific programmes and projects. The Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency of ratification by the National Assembly by Law on the grounds of art. 85, para 1, p. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 14 votes for the European Parliament and the European Space Agency, No 502-02-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u74	Thank you, Mr. Stanimirov. Following is a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on the discussion of the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency, No 502-02-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2015. At its meeting held on 28 October 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency. The meeting was attended by Mr. Philip Kirev, Head of the Political Office of the Minister of Economy and Mrs. Elisaveta Nenkova, Chief Expert at the Directorate, Economic Policies for Promotion at the Ministry of Economy. The adoption of the Bill aims to strengthen cooperation with the European Space Agency, which will contribute to the implementation and development of the common European space policy and to explore and absorb space exclusively for peaceful purposes. The instrument of ratification allows the Bulgarian companies and academic and research organisations access to the participation in projects on the implementation of activities related to space. With the acquisition of the status of a co-operative country for Bulgaria there are wide opportunities for conducting an active policy of cooperation with the member states of the European Space Agency. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 11 votes in favour of abstention and non-restraint proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency, No 502-02-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Following is a report from the Committee on Education and Science. Are there any colleagues from this Commission to present the report? Assoc. Great, you've got the honor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u77	Dear Mr. Chairman! At its regular meeting held on 4 November 2015, the Education and Science Commission examined the Draft Law for ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency, No 502-02-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2015. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister Daniela Vezeva and Zhelyaz Enev, Director of the Economic Policy Directorate for Promotion by the Ministry of Economy; Nikolay Denkov "Deputy Minister of Education and Science; Member of correspondent Petar Getzov " Director of the Institute for Economic Research and Technology and Acad. Vanyo Mitev. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Deputy Minister Daniela Vezeva. This act of ratification allows Bulgarian companies and academics and research organisations to participate in European Space Agency projects and in scientific missions. The Ministry of Education and Science supported the Agreement on the grounds that it would be useful for Bulgarian scientists, which is also shared by the Committee on Education and Science. After a vote with a result of 12 votes, the Education and Science Committee proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Law on the ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u78	Thank you, Assoc. Gorgeous. My fellow Members, I'm opening the debate on the bill. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Mr. Vigenin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I assume that the debate will not be particularly active because, as we can see from the votes in the committees, there is a broad agreement that the Agreement on Bulgaria as a European cooperative country must be ratified. BSP left Bulgaria will support ratification and we just want to make two clarifications. First of all, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy to ensure that this Programme has competitive access to the funds of all small and medium-sized enterprises that are interested, i.e. to ensure that there is transparency, sufficient information and access, for all those who are interested in the development of the project under this Programme. In the same way, it must be approached with regard to academic and research organisations, so that Bulgaria, which is now starting active cooperation with the European Space Agency, creates a good attitude and an idea of its work and activities in or together with the Agency. I would like to draw attention to the fact that working on this Agreement and on Bulgaria's cooperation with the European Space Agency, the first steps have actually started as early as 2013. It is very important to gain sufficient experience within these five years, which are yet to come, so that we can then practically take the next step towards Bulgaria's full participation as a member of the European Space Agency, which should be the ultimate goal of the project, which we are starting now with the ratification of this Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u80	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Honourable Members, we are about to vote on the bill. If there are any MPs in the towers, please come in. The Secretaries of the Parliamentary Groups shall invite the Members to attend the Chamber. Honourable Members, we are voting at first reading on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Ms. Saveklieva procedure
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u81	Mr President, honourable Members, I propose that the newly adopted First Voting Bill be subject to a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u82	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made to examine the Second Voting Bill. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Report the bill to the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u83	THE LAW OF THE ratifying the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency A single member. He ratified the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency, signed on 8 April 2015 in Sofia.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u84	Thank you. Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Law on ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency. Vote 104 MPs: for 103, there is no abstention 1. The proposal is adopted, with which the Law at second reading. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR HIGH MOVEMENT. Exporters: Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs from the People's Republic of Bulgaria.. 29 April 2015; the Council of Ministers 1 June 2015, Petar Slavov and a group of MPs from the People's Republic of Bulgaria.. 24 July 2015, Borislav Borisov 15 September 2015, Borislav Velikov and Milen Mihov 15 September 2015, and Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs from the People's Republic of Bulgaria? 16 September 2015. We have reports from several committees. First is the committee-leading report from the Committee on Education and Science on the proposed five bills. Mrs. Damyanova, report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Higher Education Act No 554-01-84, submitted by Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova and a group of MPs on 29 April 2015; Draft Law amending and supplementing the Higher Education Act No 502-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 June 2015; Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, No 554-01-143, submitted by Petar Vladislavov Slavov and a group of MPs on 24 July 2015; Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, No 554-01-152, submitted by Borislav Mihailov Borisov on 15 September 2015; Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, No 554-01-153, submitted by Borislav Lyubenov Velikov and Milen Vassilev Mihov on 15 September 2015. At its regular meeting on 16 September 2015, the Education and Science Committee discussed these draft laws. The meeting was attended by: Prof. Minister of Education and Science, Prof. Todor Tanev Nikolay Denkov Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Assoc. Stanka Velichkova Vice-President of the National Assessment and Accreditation Agency, Prof. Stanka Velichkova Ivan Ilchev Rector of Sofia University St. Ivan Ilchev Prof. Kliment Ohridski, Prof. Kliment Ohridski Statty Stattev Rector of the University of National and World Economy, prof. Lyuben Totev Rector of the Minno-Geological University of Sv. Ivan Rilski. Prof. Ivan Rilski. Mitko Georgiev Rector of Chemicotechnological and Metallurgical University, as well as representatives of the National Branch Syndicate "High Education and Science" and of student councils to higher schools. Under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, No 554-01-84, submitted by Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova and a group of MPs in the Committee on Education and Science have received positive opinions from the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Finance and from over 20 student councils to higher schools. A negative opinion on the bill was received by the National Representation of Student Councils. The Court of Auditors has objected to the proposal to carry out an annual audit of the funds allocated to the National Representation of Student Councils. Regarding the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, No 502-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers to the Committee on Education and Science, received positive opinions from Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski " and from Technical University "Sofia." A negative opinion on the bill was received by the Association of Private Higher Schools in Bulgaria. Proposals and remarks on this bill are made by Medical University. Varna. Under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, No 554-01-143, submitted by Petar Vladislavov and a group of MPs received positive opinions from the Ministry of Education and Science, from the University of National and World Economy and from the National Branch Syndicate. Opinion against the proposed amendments and additions have submitted the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency and the Higher School of Insurance and Finance. On behalf of the importers, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, No 554-01-84, submitted by Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova and a group of MPs, was presented by the National Representative Georg Georgiev. The proposed Draft aims at improving the provisions governing the status and functioning of the National Representation of Student Councils, strengthening transparency and accountability in his work. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, No 502-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers, was presented by the Minister of Education and Science. Todor Tanev. He noted that the proposed amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act aim at optimising the financing mechanisms of higher education depending on its quality and the needs of the labour market. In support of the quality of education is also the measure laid down to optimize academic staff and stimulate the construction of a new generation of lecturers and scientists. In line with the adopted Strategy for the Development of Higher Education, the Law introduces priority professional directions and protected specialties. An opportunity is envisaged to designate state universities as research universities. On behalf of the importers, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, No 554-01-143, submitted by Petar Vladislavov and a group of MPs, was presented by Assoc. Borislav Veliev. The bill provides for the introduction of a requirement for a certain service as a condition for the occupation of the posts of the Vice-Rector, Vice-Rector, Dean, or Director of an affiliate or college. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, No 554-01-152, submitted by Borislav Mihailov Borisov, was presented by the importer. He justified the main proposals in the Bill relating to the creation of opportunities for: disclosure of educational structures of higher schools abroad, production and commercial realization of the scientific products created by universities. There are also changes in the requirements for accreditation and in the content of the concept of a service contract in the Higher Education Act. On behalf of the importers The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education No 554-01-153, submitted by Borislav Lyubenov Velikov and Milen Vassilev Mihov was presented by Assoc. Borislav Veliev. The proposed amendments and additions are related to the possibility of creating departments of the Faculty of Bulgarian Higher School abroad. People's representatives Lutvi Mestan, Milen Mihov, Stanislav Stanilov and Milena Damyanova took part in the discussion of the bills, who expressed support for the submitted bills. Regarding the bill submitted by Petar Slavov, the MPs Lutvi Mestan and Milen Mihov expressed a negative opinion, noting that they believe that the proposed requirement for a certain service as a condition for holding senior positions in higher schools is contrary to academic autonomy. Professor Stanilov raised a question to the importers of the two bills, which provide for the possibility of establishing units abroad, whether they have information on how many such units and which universities are located abroad and how they function. On this issue Deputy Minister Nikolay Denkov replied that the information available to the Ministry of Education and Science is that no such unit has been found in the official order so far, which is indicative of the need to refine the legal framework for this possibility. After the discussion was concluded and the Committee on Education and Science held a vote: - with 16 votes in favour, without the opposition and 2 votes in abstention, he proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, No 554-01-84, submitted by Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova and a group of MPs on 29 April 2015; - with 14 votes in favour, 1 vote in favour and 4 votes in abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, No 502-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 June 2015; - with 11 votes....... 6 votes against.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - with 14 votes in favour, without the opposition, and 3 votes in abstention, he proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, No 554-01-152, submitted by Borislav Mihailov Borisov on 15 September 2015; - unanimously proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, No 554-01-153, submitted by Borislav Lyubenov Velikov and Milen Vassilev Mihov on 15 September 2015. And now: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, No 554-01-156, submitted by Rumen Vassilev Gechev and a group of MPs on 16 September 2015. At its regular meeting held on 4 November 2015, the Committee on Education and Science discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, No 554-01-156, submitted by Rumen Vassilev Gechev and a group of MPs on 16 September 2015. The meeting was attended by: Prof. Nikolay Denkov "Deputy Minister of Education and Science," Akad. Prof. Mr. Vanyo Mitev, Chairman of the Council of Rectors and Rector of the Medical University of Sofia, Prof. Vanyo Mitev Ivan Ilchev Rector of Sofia University St. Ivan Ilchev Prof. Kliment Ohridski, Prof. Kliment Ohridski Statty Stattev "Rector of the University of National and World Economy," as well as representatives of the National Branch Syndicate "High Education and Science" and of the National Representation of Student Councils. 5 negative opinions have been received by the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Finance, the Council of Rectors of the Higher Schools in the Republic of Bulgaria, Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski and from the National Branch Syndicate "High Education and Science." A supporting opinion on the bill was received by the Federation of University Syndicates. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Rumen Gechev. He noted the three main changes proposed: extending the autonomy of higher schools to conduct research by creating an opportunity to open research centres and clusters; changing the model of funding of higher schools related to raising the remuneration of university teachers, introducing minimum pay thresholds, as well as reducing the fees for education in state universities. People's representatives Milen Mihov, Stanislav Stanilov, Borislav Velikov and Svetla Bachvarova took part in the discussion of the Bill. Members of parliament Milen Mihov and Stanislav Stanilov recommended looking for another model to finance the proposed changes, but generally expressed support for the bill under consideration. Borislav Velikov expressed a negative opinion on the bill submitted hours before the meeting of the committee, which examined the draft bills for reform of higher education. Svetla Bachvarova explained that the proposed changes aim to introduce basic salaries for university teachers, which corresponds to the existing practice in 45 branches. In the discussion of the Bill participated also Akad. Prof. Prof. Vanyo Mitev, Prof. Vanyo Mitev. Prof. Ivan Ilchev and Assoc. Lilyana Valcheva. Professor Ivan Ilchev expressed a negative opinion on the bill and strongly opposed the proposal to reduce the fees for training, which would lead to financial collapse of already troubled financial universities. Regarding the proposal to raise the remuneration of university professors, he stressed the need to find a reasonable formula for providing funding for this idea. Academic Vanyo Mitev joined the opinion of Prof. Academician Vanyo Mitev. Ilchev explained his arguments against the draft. He recalled that the idea of the rating of higher schools was unreservedly supported by the BSP during the previous government, and now the same is defined in the project's motives as a delusion about the quality of education and this is pointed out as a basis by the importers for the proposed new quality assessment model. Akkad. Mitev noted that the long deadlines for determining the research universities are set for one year for the development of criteria and three years for the selection of universities, the impression is that this bill aims to delay the so-called changes made by the Ministry but education and science in the last ministers in cooperation with the Rectors Council. Assoc. Prof. Lilyana Valcheva also expressed a negative opinion on the discussions Draft Law, stressing that proposals for establishing basic salaries for academic workers need adjustments because such a methodology existed until 2008 when it dropped out by common agreement between the trade unions and the government. The return of such an approach will be contrary to the strategy for the development of higher education. After the discussion was concluded and the Committee on Education and Science held a vote with 6 votes for the higher education, 10 votes against the higher education Act, No 554-01-156, submitted by Rumen Vasilev Gechev and a group of MPs on 16 September 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. Following is a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Higher Education Act No 502-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 June 2015. At its meeting held on 17 September 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Higher Education Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. The representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science attended the meeting. Mr. Nikolay Denkov, Deputy Minister, and Mr. Krasimir Valchev, Secretary-General. The bill was presented by Prof. Nikolai Denkov. The main points in the bill are: 1. A new approach is introduced to finance state universities, increasing the share of state budget funds to support training in them, which is determined according to the comprehensive assessment of the quality of education and its compliance with the needs of the labour market. For 2015, the amount of these funds is 12.8 per cent of the total support subsidy for training, according to the Strategy for the Development of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014-2020, the Bill proposes to increase their share to 25 per cent for 2016, 40 per cent in 2017 and 60 per cent in 2020. 2. Targeted funding for priority professional directions and protected specialties shall be introduced. 3. State higher education for payment under certain conditions and in order outside the admission financed by the State shall be provided. In this regard, the Bill provides for the adjustment of the maximum amount of fees paid for training, which may not be higher than 170 percent of the respective differentiated regulations determined in accordance with art. Reg. 91, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law on Higher Education. 4. An amendment is proposed in art. 77, para. 3 of the Law on Higher Education, which provides for the conduct of institutional accreditation of higher schools and the assessment of compliance with the requirements for the academic composition of a basic employment contract, that a member of the academic staff may participate in the accreditation of not more than one higher school instead of the existing opportunity to participate in the accreditation of two higher schools. Following the presentation of the bill, a discussion was held in which the members of the committee expressed their principled support for the Bill. The discussion ended by voting with the following results:........... 11 MPs, without the opposite........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, No 502-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 June 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u88	Thank you. The next report is from the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u89	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Higher Education Act No 502-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 June 2015. At its regular meeting held on 24 June 2015, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Higher Education Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Deputy Minister Nikolay Denkov. According to the importer, the proposals for amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act suggest a new financing approach for higher schools, through a significant increase in the share of the funds that are determined on the basis of the comprehensive assessment, which reflects the quality of the training and its compliance with the needs of the labour market. Next, the Law introduces priority professional directions and protected specialties, which will receive targeted funding from the state budget. In view of what has been said so far, the members of the Commission supported the objectives set in the legislative project, also noting the need to regulate university sport through future amendments to the Higher Education Act. On the basis of the discussion held and the vote taken on the following results, there are no................................................................................................................. The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education No 502-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 June 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u90	Thank you. I don't see any other reports. Now, on behalf of the importer, we have six bills. Are there any willing to present the submitted bills? Mr. Georgiev, you have the floor to motivate your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u91	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! As you know, the NCCS is the only legally regulated organization empowered to represent the interests of students in Bulgaria, and here I will speak on our bill, which concerns precisely the amendments to the Law on Higher Education concerning the national representation of student councils. I must tell you that the national representation of student councils and the Bill, which concerns the change in its regulation, was in intensive dialogue with the students themselves and with 22 student organizations and student councils, which were actually the actual importers of these changes that we are initiating today in parliament. In short, what are the changes we propose with our colleagues? They concern the making of the national representation of student councils actually a stronger, more representative, more legitimate and ultimately a working body of student representation. As you will notice, the changes we are proposing are in several main directions that fit the categories I have already mentioned. First of all, we offer a paid membership-free vote at the General Assembly of the National Representation of Student Councils. That's not the case right now. Organisations which have not paid their membership imports shall not be entitled to vote in the General Assembly, which to some extent restricts the possibilities of the relevant organisations represented in the national representation to vote and to be part of the decisions taken. Second, the members of the National Assembly on the right to be the Chairs of the relevant student councils, such as the relevant student councils, if they do not broadcast presidents of the student councils, shall be entitled to broadcast other members of the relevant student council. That's not the case at the moment either. As you know, there are so-called delegated members who may not be members of the student council. This essentially violates the very name of the national representation. National representation of student councils means that members of national representation should be on logic and members of student councils. The third point concerns the budgeting of the national representation, and now the new bill provides for a reduction in the budget of the contribution of the relevant student council to the national representation. It is reduced from 10 to 3%, but it is envisaged to finance the national representation on a project basis to the budget of the relevant student council. As you know, by law, every student council is entitled to a budget that is a percentage of the university's budget. So, in this sense, we can say that student councils have exactly a defined, clear budget from which they can also provide funds to national representation. The next concerns the transparency of national representation and, in this regard, we say that it must be subject to an annual audit by the Court of Auditors, and this audit is published on the website of the Court of Auditors, and the national representation itself must publish its cost plan and its budget on its own page. There is also another element missing at the moment which concerns the mandate. This is up to two terms of reference, up to two years of corresponding position, regardless of transition to another educational degree or change of the educational establishment. We currently have cases in the national representation where some members are more than five years old by constantly changing from Bachelors to Masters in Doctors. With this they retain their mandate in the national representation and change schools, which leads to precedents where we have people who have long surpassed student age who continue to be in the management of the NCCS. It is also envisaged that the term of office will also be terminated by leaving the relevant student council or if the relevant student council is to vote leaving the member. Finally, the acts of the management bodies of the NCCS can be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. Since no such procedure is currently foreseen and the decisions taken by the management bodies of the national representation are in no way subject to appeal and, in this respect, to change or any attestation to a relevant authority. In general, these are the steps we foresee for some initial reform of the national representation of student councils so that we can really restore this representative function, which, in our opinion, has recently been lost to restore the legitimacy of the organization and to become a truly working body that fully represents the interests of student organisations. We are currently seeing the effect that students themselves do not feel well enough represented in the face of the national organization and for this reason there is also this initiative by, as I have already told you, 22 student organizations Finally, I would like to conclude with the fact that GERB will support all other submitted bills, with the exception of the one imported by Mr. Gechev and the group of BSP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u92	If only you had seen this Law!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u93	Thank you. On behalf of the importers of the other submitted bills, does anyone want to argue proposals? Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will be quite brief, as the Commission report has somewhat affected some of the motives that have been addressed with colleagues assoc. Velikov, Boyka Marinska and Prof. We brought Lilkov from the Reformation Block. He actually suggests that we sign something quite obvious which, in our view, was missing so far in the Law, which is really when a head of a higher education is elected, when a head of his faculty is elected, that these people be of undisputed authority, with proven management experience, with proven traditions in the field of higher education, that is, people who can really handle this highly responsible task that is expected of them. In other words, we have introduced a requirement that they have similar management experience, which is realized under a contract of employment with a higher school, whether it will be what they apply for or, of course, both options are acceptable. So we hope that these proposals, if they are supported, really help to select quality people in these important positions, and not people who accidentally or conjuncturally in a given situation, so to speak, we know, there have been cases when they have benefited from a given situation and have quickly grown up, and have taken positions as rectors or deans. Of course, then there was no good effect on the university itself and its management and development, including on the academic staff and students studying in it. So, generally speaking, these are our two proposals that we have highlighted in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u95	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mrs. Todorova, you will argue the bill submitted by Prof. Todorova. Borisov, perhaps.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u96	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In a nutshell I will argue the proposals Draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Higher Education of Prof. Borisov from the parliamentary group of ABB. It proposes changes in several sections. First of all, this is an editorial update of the texts. It is proposed to reject the concept of independent college because in the regulations it is already a self-contained kind of school. It is also revised the concept of a service contract and is replaced by a management contract and the rights of industrial property are replaced by a right to intellectual property. Secondly, the development of academic autonomy is proposed by clarifying and clearing the concepts of how to reveal educational structures abroad and better defining the concept of educational franchise. Also one of the main merits of the Bill is that it is regulated how to regulate production and profit from scientific products, i.e. patent profit, because many universities around the world profit mainly from this. "Harvard" earns about 200 billion a year from patent activities, while with us universities and scientific institutes have no motivation to develop in a scientific direction and regulate patents and register because they do not benefit from it. We therefore believe that this is one of the main advantages of our Bill. There are also new opportunities before higher education institutions for people with academic positions in scientific institutes to be able to teach and form departments of less than 7 people and to be 5 and in less than 7 years so that PhD students who are in newly formed specialties can defend their doctorate and then habilitate themselves afterwards. A system of higher education is also optimized, opportunities for numerous contracts are limited, numerous positions of management at different universities are limited and the possibility of taking into account the same lecturer in the accreditation of different universities is limited. Synchronization is made between the Law on Higher Education and the Law on the Development of the Academic Board, as scientific leaders, chief assistants and doctors can be scientific leaders and can read lectures. Finally, the possibility of own revenues is expanding by making a new proposal for a paid admission to state universities. We welcome most of the bills. We will support those of the Council of Ministers, Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs, Mr. Mihov and Mr. Velikov and a group of MPs, and Mr. Borisov and a group of MPs. We have only one remark: since this will perhaps be the 50th Amendment for 20 years for the Law on Higher Education, we believe that it is time for a new Law on Higher Education. I neglected to say that our Law is in line with the Higher Education Development Strategy and approved by the Rectors Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u97	Thank you. Professor Gechev, you are welcome to motivate proposals from you Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues, I will start with what my colleague has completed, namely that we need a strong new law, as this is a piece of work, from now on I have to tell you. The main problem of laws and amendments is that we are trying to correct a law that does not meet any of the systems in Europe or the Anglo-Saxon. I'm saying this because by coincidence, I have more than 30 semesters of U.S., UK, France, Cyprus and other countries. I have to tell you that our Law has nothing to do with these systems, but it's just taken from there something, and obviously, colleagues don't work out, which is why our higher education, in quality terms, is not in the world rankings of universities, and the reason is not only in the Law. With a law like this that we're working on, we're obviously not going to get far anytime soon. The efforts are commendable to improve what currently exists as a basic law, but let us unite all parliamentary groups, to form expert groups under the leadership of the Ministry and to make a law that is consistent with either the system of Germany and France or the Anglo-Saxon system in accordance with the Bulgarian conditions and to start working properly. I will briefly mark four things that we offer in the amendments to the Law. The first is related to a shift from quantitative to qualitative indicators. Here we will hardly have any differences, as now the distribution of the financial resources of universities becomes a piece of student. The funds for research are also distributed evenly to all of the regions, from all universities, and this is the wrong approach, honourable Members! We need to move on to quality indicators. Better the scarce resources available to the state to be allocated not even to a few good universities, and we said in the debates that it is good for these funds to go to the best faculties, departments, scientific units of universities. Bulgaria does not have the resources to bring even an entire university into the world's first 500 at the moment, and we should do what other universities in Europe and outside Europe. China is a great example where they started to fund various departments and centres and managed to put into the first 500 and then 100 universities of their research centres. So Bulgaria is a small country and with limited resources we must move as quickly as possible to quality indicators and the distribution of our financial resources according to the qualities demonstrated by universities. Secondly, what we are proposing is contained in the strategy of all leading countries of the European Union. Dear colleagues, if you enter and read the strategy for scientific development of France and Germany, which are available on the Internet in several languages, you will see that they are betting on the creation of research centres, including centres that are outside universities. For example, Germany has two directions: the Max Planck Institute and 69 other institutes and NGOs, which are obliged each of them to have a contract with the German universities, which 99 per cent are state-owned. These universities create clusters between universities, research institutions and businesses, plus the first direction of which is about fundamental research. So we propose the creation of such clusters between universities and businesses, because there will hardly be a contradiction that our universities are not tied enough to business or, more precisely, where they are connected, it is sporadic and not systematic. Thirdly, we offer a reduction in student fees by a third. Dear colleagues, you know that Bulgarian families are experiencing severe difficulties in financing their children who are studying higher education. This is why we are proposing part of the decision that the fee is charged at the expense of the budget first, because all the EU directives and all of us are convinced, regardless of our political differences, that the present and future is a knowledge economy and we will hardly argue that the main lever for increasing the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy, like all other economies, will be education. Therefore, we need to facilitate the access of Bulgarian young people and strengthen them, improve the conditions for admission to state universities, so that they are cheaper, but to be accessible to our children, who show good results and the state universities to enter students with high opportunities. The next step, of course, must be building the base. Here are fellow lecturers, you know that if you have enrolled 180 students in the stream, you do not all come to lectures and their excuses, which is not acceptable, but it is that you have to work, families can not support them in order to be able to pay their fees. That is, Prime Minister, we must respond to the alternative of whether we will ensure that our students study, or not provide them, fees will remain high and they will have to work and be absent from classes. In fact, who are we lying to in this case? In practice, they are not regular, but are students or remote students who come from time to time at the university to pass their exams. So with this step, we will achieve better results with the cost of the charge by one third, the greater involvement of the state in this area. Last but not least, we believe that the quality of higher education, in general, of education, depends on the quality of teachers. Colleagues, we have come up with dramatic contradictions in pay in higher education. It is no secret that there are only a few universities, including mine, where the salaries are decent to the Bulgarian standards. However, in the vast majority of universities in Bulgaria and especially in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, it is offensive to be a lecturer. I'll give you an example. At the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences PhD student under the Law in Bulgaria received 450 BGN. Scholarship and doesn't pay tax. After defending his dissertation and becoming a doctor in physics, chemistry or economics, he gets the same salary and pays 10% tax and gets less than the doctorate who has not defended the doctorate and is a research associate or assistant! At the moment, the salaries of our fellow physicists, chemists, biologists, economists, historians, young scientists at the Academy of Sciences are equal to the salaries of the cleaning women at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Is that normal, guys?! Can the Republic of Bulgaria, as a member of the European Union, literally mess with these lecturers? We offer basic salaries. As there are basic salaries for fellow teachers in secondary and primary education, so there should be basic salaries for higher education as well. Anyone can access the Internet and see that there are basic salaries in all developed countries of the European Union. There are rocks in Germany, France, Italy, Spain that concern universities, and in most countries universities are mainly state-owned. We offer as an assistant to have two minimum salaries, which means that it will be a little more than the primary teacher in primary and secondary education; for chief assistant We cannot want and expect quality education if our young colleagues are paid lower than those of graduate students starting work somewhere. There is no such practice in Europe! Note that we also want this criterion for basic salaries to concern private universities. Dear colleagues, what is this private university? Some of them claim to be better than the state, but they're not international rankings, so I hope they do! If they cannot provide a base salary as at the state university, and make private universities unknown where in the curfews of Bulgaria, with 400 BGN each. Is this a university?! What are these lecturers who agree to work for 400 BGN. A month?! And what quality will we expect of them?! We demand the transfer of basic pay to teachers in higher education institutions, to ensure the dignity of these scientists and lecturers according to European standards! When I say 'European standards', I will end with this: to respond to the practice of other countries in Europe. Higher education is not in good shape, colleagues. We must change the laws and provide financial resources so that science and education can become a producer of a larger gross domestic product for Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u99	Thank you, Professor. Gechev. On the other submitted bills? Associate Professor Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u100	How about a break?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u101	I hope you'll be brief as we enter the time of rest?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman, your hope is assured I will be brief. Dear Minister, indeed our Committee on Education and Science led by Mrs Damyanova and colleagues worked hard. As you can see, the chosen approach to have a comprehensive law "The Preschool and School Education Act, which is already a fact, is undoubtedly the basis for the reform of the education system in Bulgaria. For higher education, we have examined the model in which it is possible with some necessary changes to change and supplement the existing Law to also achieve important changes, almost equal to the reform of secondary education. I think our good cooperation with Minister Tanev's team is a guarantee that you can still think, as suggested here Prof. Tanev. Gechev, for a comprehensive new law, but this is undoubtedly a longer process. Regarding our bill with Assoc. Mihov, I would like to say that it is related to an important part of the Law on Higher Education, the amendments that are taking place after Bulgaria's accession to the European Union. Even before the entrance of the Fortyth National Assembly was adopted in the Additional Provisions of the Higher Education Act that after the adoption of the Republic of Bulgaria as a member of the European Union, foreign higher schools opened under the legal order in the Member State of the European Union and the European Economic Area may open divisions within the territory of our country under appropriate conditions laid down in the Law. In response to this, the Forty-first National Assembly correctly adopted amendments and a new paragraph in § 4 of the Additional Provisions that Bulgarian higher schools may also reveal their units abroad under the terms and conditions of this Law and subject to the legislation of the host State. All this, and after it, there is already a great interest in foreign universities and organizations recognised by the laws of the country concerned to organize and conduct entirely or partly educational activities together with Bulgarian universities in foreign territory. We therefore propose very little changes to the Higher Education Act in order to avoid a more free interpretation of the concept of abroad. 3, which I mentioned. In this way, the practice is harmonised and our higher schools are given the opportunity to reveal territorial divisions in foreign territory. That is the meaning of the Law and I urge you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u103	Thank you, Assoc. Gorgeous. Before I announce a break, one message: An exhibition will be opened at the Club of the National Representative "My homeland Bulgaria" by the artist Danail Ignatov. The exhibition presents 42 canvases dedicated to the beauty of Bulgarian nature, Revival cities and medieval architecture. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. After the break, that is, at 12.10 am, I will give the Minister of Education and Science the floor to justify his bill accordingly. I'm calling a break till 12:00 a.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u104	Honourable Members, we are continuing the meeting. We are looking at the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Higher Education. I give the floor to Minister Tanev to present the Bill submitted by the Ministry of Education and Science through the Council of Ministers. Here you go, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u105	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We agree, in principle, with most of our fellow Members' proposals tabled. In fact, there are no significant contradictions between these projects. Much more is unity and the addition between them. The Ministry of Education and Science in this year produced a lot of bills, including the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Higher Education. I can add that we have done, firstly, a Bill for the Development of the Academic Board Very soon, the very important law on amending and supplementing the current Law on Vocational Education and Training will also be ready in our policy. In this way, with this package of bills after their adoption, we will have an essential basis for reforms in all four directions of education, the pre-school and school which passed, the vocational, higher education, the development of the academic staff. As for the Law on Higher Education, it naturally precedes the other Law, which is the Law on the Development of the Academic Board and it is logical that it is adopted now, especially in view of several factors. Firstly, we have a strategy for developing higher education with which we have agreed and on which the Law of the Council of Ministers rests, which I present, which was adopted on a proposal from the Ministry of Education. Also with the requirements of the Operational Programme for Science and Education for Smart Growth, which required us to make imperative changes to the legislative basis of funding quality education. This bill is agreed with the Council of Rectors in the presence of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and is also consulted with the social partners, student representatives and all who could pass legitimacy on to it. I think we've reached maximum legitimacy. In short, the current Law, the still functioning Law on Higher Education, mended in the years before, has one major flaw, probably more than it does, but I will say the key and that it relies exclusively on intensive development. The best majors from a commercial point of view developed without regard to the needs of life. The money followed the student, not the quality of his training and so on. Our task at the moment and it is very responsible, to this Parliament at the moment, is from an extensive gradual transition to a good balance and to the intensive, i.e. to those specialties that are important to Bulgaria, priority, as has been said, departments including, and not only universities with high ratings, so that it is related to life, business needs, local authorities and so on. It's done. The emphasis is just on quality. The bill of the Council of Ministers is long enough, so allow me to say just a few of the key points in it. The first of these is to encourage state universities to increase the quality of training with the following financial stimulus: for the current year 2015 the subsidy rate established on the basis of a comprehensive assessment of the quality of training and compliance with the needs of the labour market is only 12.8% of the support subsidy. We predict from 2020, this is required that this share goes to 60%. Therefore, the share of training support funds obtained on the basis of a comprehensive assessment of the quality of training and compliance with the needs of the labour market will increase to 40% in 2017 and should reach 60% in 2020 with the measures recorded in the Law. This will take place gradually and only those factors related to the labour market will be assessed. Secondly, the Law introduces priority professional directions and protected specialties. Without this measure, the first one won't be able to work. Thirdly, a permanent measure or a permanent measure provides for the possibility for state universities to carry out training in exchange for payment under certain conditions and procedures outside the admission financed by the State. Fourth, the requirement for carrying out the institutional accreditation of higher schools and the assessment of conformity with the requirements for the academic staff of a basic contract shall be introduced. That is, a member of the academic staff present and included in the accreditation may participate in the accreditation of not more than one university, instead of the possibility so far to participate in the accreditation of two higher schools. Further, it is regulated the possibility of validating admissions in newly opened professional directions and specialties for the university, I stress the newly discovered one of the regulated professions for which there is still no data for the realization of graduates. At the moment, the opening of funding for such specialties, which do not have at least one or two exits, is very difficult. In summary, I can say that the amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education introduced by the Council of Ministers aim to optimize the mechanisms for financing higher education, depending on essential features related to its quality, on the basis of the needs of the labour market, public development and the priorities set by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Ministers, in support of the quality of education and the envisaged measure for optimizing the academic staff and stimulating the construction of a new generation of lecturers and scientists. From this Law will follow, or more precisely, its application further, very specific changes and their practical application in higher schools, such as the requirement to renew the classes worn by one teacher, including students or PhD students, or students and PhD students exclusively in practical and research work at the place of current seminars, which repeat only texts and so on. In keeping with the autonomy of higher education institutions, we will have to do this further, I mean the Ministry, in close links with the Rectors Council, so that it can not be done in a piece at a separate university, but to do it together. One of the last very important opportunities that this Law creates after it passes through Parliament, with your approval, will be the possibility of optimization of the too bloated network of extensive developing universities, and from this federation or conglomeration of some with a relative direction are taken into account those departments, which are actually high rating, not the entire university, but are shortening the teachings that are duplicated so far and of which the labour market does not have anything in mind. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u106	And thank you, dear Minister. I think all six bills were argued by their importers. I'm opening the debate. I would like to remind you that they are conducted in parallel by the six bills. Here you are, Mr. Kenov. You were the first to ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u107	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I will start with what happened in the speeches of Ms. Mariana Todorova and Prof. Todorova. Gechev said that at the end of the day what we have in front of us is that there is a screaming need for a new Law on Higher Education. That's what I shared with the minister of the last committee. First of all, there are many gaps and public relations that need to be settled in the Law on Higher Education and be entirely new. With the adopted by the 43rd National Assembly Strategy for Higher Education, which I have repeatedly referred to as the Strategy for State Higher Education only, many universities and nearly 25% of students who study in non-state universities have been missed. Some of the bills offer things that are reasonable and which we will support in the Commission between first and second readings, but we will in principle support only one of the laws of the National Representative Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs, and we will abstain on the other drafts. Disconciliation wakes up some proposals regarding the elections of rectors and vice-rectors and gives rise to an impression of predestination and interference by the legislator in the choice of a particular rector, and I will refrain from mentioning the name of the higher education institution concerned. In terms of funding, we also believe that there should be a radical change, using other countries' experience. We see that the funding for higher education is almost unchanged every year, not increasing the quality, continuing the funding of a mudguard of students and feeding state universities without the need for them in our opinion. I'll make some notes on some of the lyrics.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u108	Philosophy, not lyrics!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u109	The biggest problems of higher education are two: unacceptable scale of disproportion between the announced reception and the number of graduates, and the lack of any connection to the admission of students to the needs of the labour market. And now we have a much bigger reception than seniors who are graduating. Even if we talk about people who need to qualify and requalify, the disproportion between the two numbers is very high. With some of the proposals I think we need to increase the reception, we can ask the following: how much should the admission of students in Bulgaria be 75, 80, 100 thousand, 150 thousand students? How many students do we need? We generally accept the idea of colleagues from the Reformation Bloc and the Patriotic Front for Exporting Education as something positive, but we have reservations about how it is done. Is it even possible for faculties to establish units abroad without having legal personality as independent legal entities? The fact regarding the granting of more powers to the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency is also disturbing. Additional regulation regimes are being established and we believe that some of the texts are unnecessary regulation in relation to certain activities in the work of higher schools. We'll make a proposal between first and second readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u110	We have no doubt.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u111	We believe that the possibility of working on a basic employment contract and a management contract is unnecessary, that it creates an obstacle for a part of the management of higher schools to teach, and some of the proposals lead to ambiguity that this will make it more difficult for the work on personnel insurance in certain higher schools. It is necessary for the Ministry to prepare a bill that puts on an equal footing both state and private universities. We believe that the division of private and state universities should not be done but should be seen as equal, independent from the institution in which they are trained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u112	Thank you, dear Mr. Kenov. - What's the line? I won't. Next, he declared a wish to make a statement. Ivan Stankov of the ABB Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u113	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! I would like to start by saying that the academic community has long been waiting for its Higher Education Act. There are not one presented, but six whole bills in which there are good proposals, which, if they are united in a common law, I believe that we will indeed make a good, working Higher Education Law, which is what our higher education needs to be, in order not only to do so, as some journalists say: a turglue of ideas. I will only focus on some more important ones, which I think really need to get into the joint bill. First, under the Act of the Ministry of Education and Science. I think it starts with something extremely important. And my colleague before me said it was insane in our country to set a state order twice as high as the number of graduates. There should be a correction here in any case. Four indicators are proposed that I accept, but I have a particular opinion only on the realization of the footage. And I'm going to say two reasons for that. First of all, for the agrarian specialties, there is really a lower realization there, but not because there is no need for such footage, but simply the unconscious need for such footage. And the other, which is in medicine there is always 100 percent realization. There is always a shortage of personnel, but after the fifth year, a large part of the people go outside and it happens that poor Bulgaria produces footage for the rich countries in Europe. I think it is much better to take the suggestions of staff users, of the Ministry of Education and Science, of all other ministries that use this footage. I believe that instead of realising this should be done, but there is a corrective proposal that gives some priorities for certain specialties that need to be defended and that should be priority, so this is a good proposal. I think it is important to bear this in mind, and to support that a lecturer should participate in the accreditation of only one university, although it is not democratic enough, even though some principles of autonomy are being violated. I believe that this is necessary for the stage and this should be supported. The acquisition of research status of some universities is also important. It's a good offer. The funding situation has not been clarified well enough, indicating that the increase will be from 25% to 60%, but how exactly will it be? Is that 25% going to be for a rating or what? Is it going to be by the book? And the basic regulation is low and the coefficients need adjustments. So these are things you should consider. Under the Project Law, submitted by Prof. Borisov. We'll support him anyway. I believe that what is being proposed is a long-awaited and desirable solution, the granting of a right to production and commercial activity. There are different opinions that perhaps universities will start to abuse funds. I believe that this cannot happen because control and self-control in higher schools is so great that this simply will not be allowed. And this opportunity to give a scientific product and to receive funds for the students to also participate in the processes is very important. They will acquire practical skills, and this is the experience of a number of countries in the world. We also support the proposal for an educational franchise from abroad. We believe that this is a good proposal. According to the project of prof. Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs are proposing by decision of the academic board and institutes to universities, and why not the units to them, to conclude contracts and to carry out joint research work with the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and with the Agricultural Academy. This is a good proposal because at the moment our science is so divided and everyone in their trench throws out the scarce means, so this is a good proposal. As a perfect proposal, I also find that universities with an accreditation rating over 9 will be given the right to reveal centres of excellence. This is in full compliance with the latest European documents, so we will support this proposal. The proposal to introduce basic salary regulations. That's also a good offer, but I don't know if it's really feasible. I'm a little worried that they won't allow the financial capacity of the state to happen. Not just as a good wish. I will abstain on the proposal for a two-thirds reduction to a third of the student subsidy. And I'll tell you this from my practice as Rector. We, with the state subsidy, can't even provide a fund. If we cut student fees, we can't afford the budget. At this stage, in these budgets, I believe that this is difficult to accept. There are other good proposals for art. 328, which can also be supported, so these are good proposals that are being made. On the project Velikov and Mihov, this is an extension of what Prof. Mihov offers. Borisov and we will support him. I believe that a good proposal makes Damyanova and a group of MPs. This is for student councils because there are definitely problems there. There should definitely be adjustments. In terms of mandate, this percentage of fees must also be adjusted. We give one percent of our budget, and 10% of it is taken, so I think there must be a definite change and we support these proposals. According to Slavov's project and a group of MPs, some of the things are difficult to explain and acceptable. Perhaps we will abstain, but I must tell you that this is exactly what happens in practice, as they describe it with the members of the academic groups. Yesterday we had a general meeting at which I already issued the rector's office. Exactly from our academic circles is elected Rector, so it is not wrong this proposal. My fellow Members, there are only a few more minutes left, and I would like to say a few things that are not included in the bills, but are important. It is essential in the time of information technology to change teaching and testing methods. These things aren't affected. We'll make some suggestions. A professor cannot continue in the old practice to read lectures to dozens of students because they are not mandatory, to use their old straws, not to upload the material to the university site, so these are things that we need to correct, to lay down law, because we cannot in this way conduct modern education. Students should be the active part, not the passive part, as it has been so far. So we need significant changes here. There are other things to consider. We will make them as proposals between first and second readings. I believe that we can, with all these proposals, make a good and working common law on higher education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u114	Thank you, too, Professor. Stankov. - What's the line? The line is prof. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u115	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Stankov, it is probably our missing that in the motives we have not explained something that is extremely important and that is why your interpretation is inaccurate from this point of view. Just because we want to cut the subsidy by a third does not mean that we will leave the university alone to compensate for these funds and that is why we have made these proposals on 16 September. Quite rightly, you say, in the hope that these funds will be included in the development of the new budget. I would like to emphasise explicitly that we would not have made a proposal for a change in the subsidy which would have already worsened the critical financial situation of universities. Our idea, I apologize, perhaps in this sentence in the motives we have not explicitly highlighted, is that the state budget takes on this difference, not at the expense of the university. And we're talking about 15 million. lv. With these billions flying up and down in new debts and that we are not implementing the EU directives on the share of education in gross domestic product, we have the potential to solve this issue, but I am using the right to reply to say that the point is not to make the university worse, but instead of the student importing these two thirds, one third to be taken over from the Bulgarian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u116	Thank you. Anyone want a second line? Here you go, Professor. Stankov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I accept Mr. Rumen Gechev's line, and I think what he offers, if he fits into the motives, would be fine. I only get up to say that in the reasons you need to make some more supplements, because there are good suggestions. Along with everything else you offer, I think you should bet a little more on the material base as a factor for successful science and education, because it is not just the learning work that we are talking about, and the research product is important. We need to have a good material base especially for applied specialties, so include that in your motives and I think it will become good proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u118	Thank you. Next statement - Assoc. Milen Mihov of the Patriotic Front Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u119	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! We are looking at several laws that affect Bulgarian higher education. Before I declare the support of the Patriotic Front for the good intentions and proposals reflected in all the bills, I must say two sentences, however, for the Bulgarian higher education. First, as illogical as it may sound, Bulgarian universities can obtain a brilliant European education for any Bulgarian youth who wants to prepare, build, qualify as a specialist, at a price much lower than in Europe. This opportunity I can argue for a long time and in detail, but this is not the place to have this argument. However, in our universities are created and there are conditions for good qualifications provided the motivation of each student. Proof of this are the successes of our Masters, PhD students who find extremely good realization the best of them, in prestigious European and world universities. However, our higher education is in fierce competition not only within the country, not even within the European Union, but we can tell the limitless limits of education and science in the world. We have seen in recent years how not only European but also non-European countries from the East and from the West offer extremely tempting conditions for training our students and candidate students. In this sense, we are faced with serious challenges that are behind the financing of higher education abroad, incomparablely large in relation to ours. On this basis, our legislative activity should be aimed not only at reforming the legal conditions, the structure, the scope and volume of the Bulgarian universities, but, above all, at an active policy to protect and stimulate our universities. In this direction, the question of financing the Bulgarian universities is essential in our view. There's only two questions I'd like to address here. It is important that the transition from what is called the funding of mudguards to another funding model. The thesis is generally accepted that this should be done taking into account the quality of Bulgarian higher education. But I continue to have deep reservations that if we understand the quality only and only as equal to the rating that is now being made, we will make significant mistakes. We cannot mention that, for example, the criterion of realization is objectively impossible to apply to all universities and regions, because in this principle the most leading higher education institution is the Military Academy, because 100% of the graduates of the Military Academy find realization. We cannot apply purely the statistics on salary and insurance received from the same direction in different universities, because our statistics have shown that wages in Silistra are twice lower than those in Sofia of the same specialists. That is what we should bear in mind when we formulate the criteria and legislative frameworks in this direction. It's a good idea for the Ministry to create protected specialties. Here we must approach extremely carefully and with responsibility for the needs not only in the labour market, but also in the public needs of the state and society. Next, I would like to refer to an important issue that my colleagues have addressed before me for the participation of lecturers in the accreditation of two or one universities. The change that is being proposed must be considered very carefully.......................................................................... The logical argument is that this will reduce traveling professors, but they are not the teachers who work in two places. Traveling professors are those who write that they work in three, four and five places and actually do no teaching work, but applying this principle creates a disproportion. The colleague speaks of equal relations between private and state universities. I don't want to oppose them, but in art. 36 of the Higher Education Act states that private universities can have another structure, not that regulated, firm for state universities. Under these conditions, the Law states that state universities should have, for example, 40 academic faculty teachers to have a faculty, but for private universities this may also be in other respects. Now the Act in force requires state universities to work with many lecturers, to provide expensive, we can say, educational process. If we remove the Order for the two accreditation places, we risk.. and we have to say this openly, to question the existence of specialties and even major units in extra-capital universities. The logic that by shortening those specialities and units there, students will come to the capital and will receive a better education here is a logic that can be questioned because in the current social characteristics we risk those students not getting into a higher education facility at all. Finally, I would like to say two words on the issue of attracting students to Bulgarian higher schools outside the borders of Bulgaria. We continue to view our higher education system as closed only within the borders of Bulgaria. In the Higher Education Strategy, we have recorded that the state will work actively to attract students from the European Union, from the Bulgarian communities in third countries. This is an important issue on which we are lagging behind our partners, friends and colleagues from the European Union, but also from the Balkan countries. The problem for students, for the youth of the world, is a global problem and we must compete with all our competitors, preserving, preserving and continuing the traditions of Bulgarian higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u120	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. The People's Representative Mariana Georgieva of the DPS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u121	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The DPS Parliamentary Group will, in principle, support the main part of the six legislations tabled to amend and supplement the Law on Higher Education, but before it is justified by the support and non-support, and given the speeches made so far in this House, I would like to note that we at the DPS at the beginning of the work of the forty-third National Assembly, when discussing Budget 2015, made a clear statement that Bulgarian higher education needs a whole new law for its regulation. The National Assembly's Stenograms have reflected this thing. Thus, we find it necessary to say that these bills, in their undisputed contribution to good higher education policy, cannot be recognised as sufficient, even against the backdrop of the minister's position, that with this set of six laws we can be relieved that there is a reform in higher education. Dear Minister, we at the DPS don't think so and I will argue. Very soon, ten days ago in Gabrovo, you strongly assured the media that you were working on a new Higher Education Act. Today you say that these six bills calm you down and remove your anxiety about reforming higher education. Where is the truth about your management expertise? It would be useful for higher education to make it very clear. Financing or strengthening the funding model of higher education is a good policy, good care. But thus served in a piece unserved by the philosophy of a comprehensive bill, by definition, for the contribution of the legal act, risks not getting what this provision seeks and what higher schools deeply crave. Because we all know that the bill introduced by the Council of Ministers is with a little reverse thrust. It is a service that speaks with the worry of higher schools that you can no longer stand in the absence of a policy of good management of higher education by the state. And you know very well that the credit is the concern of the higher schools for the nature of the leading provisions of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Higher Education Act tabled by the Council of Ministers. However, these provisions, which are in a piece, will not be able to obtain this synchronization for the good result, which is precisely with these provisions to limit the numerical composition of the academic councils, in terms of how many places to work and how to assess their contribution to accreditation, this is the first obstacle to question the good application of the funding provision. You subtract criteria for scientific activity, for quality of study activity. What if the accreditation assessment of a higher school "Xix" has just passed before the new provision enters into force, how does it pass between the drops with the professors already counted with two contracts of employment and have already benefited from the good funding given the good accreditation assessment and the others who will be accredited the next day after the entry into force of this provision will pay the most heavy price? Is that competitiveness in essence? Is that an equal condition essentially? Is this in the direction of good quality as a result of good governance policy? It's Nonsense! Next, we in the DPS will make proposals, and much, and it is essentially between first and second readings on this Bill of the Council of Ministers, but the debate at first reading does not suggest that we go through this thing in detail. Next, a reform of higher education does not begin and does not end with the methodology and model of funding, colleagues. This is very well known to all of us and to those who do not think in the first place for higher education. The reform in higher education is a problem of securing quality. Financing is an important parameter, not by parallel parameters or, last but not only, is not enough. Fraud is this consolation for higher education with a changed model in such obstruction and relativity that I have been talking about so far. For this reason, Mr. Gechev, we will refrain from supporting your bill because you yourself said in the reply to Professor Gechev. Stankov, his blamour comes from the fact that there is no secured budget for higher education in general, on the basis of which to make a precise, respectful, modern European measure and the pay of the work of teachers, professors, and ensuring the quality of the entire educational process. The funding is not entirely the component of the ingredients of the educational process, the provision of conditions for good quality to all subjects in the educational process, Mr Minister, and hence the We strongly object to the Law of Petar Slavov and a group of MPs who want to intervene in the regulation determining the candidacy of the Supreme School Rector. Sorry, academic autonomy, academic self-government doesn't regulate such interference, non-interference. The fact that a higher school has stirred up the calmness of the public space, whether it has properly chosen its new Rector or not, shows that the Higher Education Act wants a firm replacement with a whole new Higher Education Act, but not with such subjective political approaches to adjusting the provision to the particular case. That's what I said earlier when I was talking about the Law of the Council of Ministers. It's the wrong thrust. When the specific case is taken and a provision is made on a provisional basis in the light of one specific circumstance, it is not a policy, it is not a governance, it is not an indisputable bill by spirit and letter as a philosophy of the legal act which governs a sector of social and political life, in this case the higher education sector. The initiative of colleagues Borislav Velikov and Milen Mihov is useful for revealing units of the structure of universities in other countries, because this is consistent with the Bologna Process and the European directives for the free movement of people, goods. The educational product is a kind of intellectual commodity, so we will also support this Bill. In conclusion, the DPS strongly objected to the project of Petar Slavov and a group of MPs to be governed by a provision in the Law the right of discretion of the academic staff to regulate their management and self-government. Accordingly, between first and second readings, we will make numerous substantive proposals for amendments to the Bill submitted by the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u122	Thank you. Is there a line to Mrs. Georgieva's statement? I won't. The next statement is from Mrs. Daniela Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u123	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I will concentrate my speech on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Higher Education Act, No 554-01-153, submitted by the MPs Borislav Velikov and Milen Mihov on 15 September 2015. The project proposes the introduction of a new structure of the higher school. In essence, it is a form of foreign education. In this respect, it should be borne in mind that the provision of art. 25, para. 4 of the Law on Higher Education regulates the branch as an exported structure of the higher school, and § 4 of the Additional provisions of the Law on Higher Education regulates the possibility for Bulgarian universities to reveal their units abroad, under conditions and under the Law on Higher Education and subject to the legislation of the host country. The proposed texts make it clear that the territorial unit of the faculty is not an independent unit and that the faculty management bodies are responsible for the training and management of the territorial unit. In this respect, it should be noted that the faculty is a primary unit of the university which does not have an independent legal personality is not an independent legal entity. This raises a number of issues related to the organisation, activity control and accreditation of the territorial unit, as well as the legal form in which it will exist abroad. The proposed framework, in my opinion, creates the concept of a territorial unit, which is close to the concept of a Philial, but its essence is not sufficiently clear and consistently regulated in the texts of the Project. The project also proposes an amendment to the Health Act, allowing partial training in individual disciplines, which have relative autonomy in the overall educational process in the specialties of the professional fields of medical science, dentistry, pharmacy, or public health to be organized and carried out in the territorial departments of the relevant faculties abroad. In this respect, it should be noted that according to art. 175, para. 1 and 2 of the Law on Health, Preparation and Acquirement of the Educational and Qualification Degree "Master" is organized and conducted in the faculties of higher schools which received accreditation under the Law on Higher Education and the preparation and acquisition of the educational and qualification degree "Bachelor" under art. 42, para. 1, t. 1 point (b) of the Law on Higher Education in the specialities of the professional field of health and in the specialities of the medical nurse and nurse,.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The possibility in territorially exported structures to study only certain disciplines in a particular speciality is contrary to the principle concept of medical training for the integration of preclinical and clinical disciplines. The adoption of the amendments proposed in the Bill and their implementation would, in my view, result in a deterioration in the quality of the training, as already stated in the Law. 1 reason, as well as difficulty in providing sufficient intellectual and financial resources to conduct such training. Control of the organisation and quality of the learning process is envisaged to be remote due to the lack of administrative autonomy of the exported structure. I believe that such changes would stimulate young people to focus on similar structures and permanently settle abroad. Training in structures of the proposed species will not have a self-defined capacity for admission and training of students. The number of students trained in such structures will be part of the approved by the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency for the respective specialty. In order to ensure the reception of foreign citizens within the framework of the established capacity for the respective speciality, the admission of Bulgarian citizens should be reduced. Higher public schools perform the social function of providing equal access to education to Bulgarian citizens. Such changes in the Law on Higher Education will limit the access of Bulgarian citizens to higher education, create prerequisites for national interest and responsibility to give in to private economic interests. In accordance with art. 9, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law on Higher Education for the Opening of Branches and Faculties, where training in specialties from regulated professions is carried out, a decision of the National Assembly is required. These structures in the Law on Higher Education are subject to a number of requirements in art. Article 26 and Article 26 26c, as well as one of the most important is the evaluation of projects for the opening of a faculty and branch of the National Agency for Evaluation and Accreditation, art. 75, para. 4. For the opening of a territorial unit abroad, including training in regulated professions, according to the Project is a sufficient solution of the academic board of the higher school without requiring a decision of the National Assembly and evaluation of the Project by the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency. No other requirements have been set to the territorial unit, including with regard to the academic staff and structure, which calls into question the quality of training in the proposed structure. My view is that with the regulatory framework created, it is created parallel to the existing one. Similar arguments for failure to support this bill have also been made by the Ministry of Health. Similar are the arguments and objections of the Association of University Hospitals, some of the medical universities in the country. Therefore, I believe that if the will of the Members of the National Assembly is to support the proposed Bill, in which the intentions are definitely good, the texts will need very serious judgment and we will commit ourselves to clarifying them between first and second readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Are there any lines to that statement? I won't. Three other MPs have signed up in the following order: Boyka Marinska, Velizar Enchev, Lutvi Mestan. If there's more, let them report it. Here you are, Mrs. Marinska.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, the six drafts submitted concern different aspects of the Law on Higher Education from the status and organization of the activities of the National Representation of Student Councils, through binding the quality of higher education to a greater extent with differentiated funding, to the disclosure of units of Bulgarian universities abroad. It is obvious that the system of higher education needs reforms, and we all here have no disagreement on this issue - reforms that will meet the goal of the Europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, growth in the Higher Education Strategy. The changes must, however, be in the direction of improving the quality of higher education and the development of research in them. On the first Bill submitted by GERB and the Reformation Bloc, our colleagues from GERB worked quite a lot of time to refine all the texts. We have worked fruitfully with them and I can say that such cooperation should always serve as a model for work between members of a committee in parliament. The main objective of this Bill was the introduction of new rules for the National Representation of Student Councils and the introduction of a mandate of members of the National Representation and rules for their financing, the optimization of the activities of these councils. That is why we of the Reformation bloc will support this bill. With regard to the next drafts tabled by the Council of Ministers, the opinion of the Reformation bloc is also for support. Regarding the bill submitted by Borislav Borisov by ABB, we have observations on § 7, § 8 and § 13. Paragraph 7 provides for a reduction in the requirements for the establishment of a faculty, i.e. senior assistants will be considered as habilitated persons for the purpose of achieving the requirements for staff. We believe that this will prevent the closure of non-functional units and non-functional faculties in the system of higher education and will contribute largely to the swarming of universities and higher schools. In § 8 we see the possibility of lobbying the provision of research institutes to be able to become quasi-faculties. We consider this a way to circumvent legal requirements. § 13 of the same Bill attempts to define that the basic contract of employment for the purposes of the Law is only the one on full-time. We believe that the technique is poor because it is heading towards the provisions of the Labour Code for a 40-hour work week, and the working hours of teachers in higher schools are far less. Another formulation should be considered. Between first and second readings, we intend to take advantage of our right to proposals to redefine these texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u126	Thank you. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Mr. Enchev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u127	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I fully join Mr. Rumen Gechev's opinion when he commented in full on the request for a comprehensive Law on Higher Education and, above all, on the introduction of a minimum threshold for the payment of academic posts, the so-called................................................................................. As he said, an assistant should have two minimum salaries, chief assistant at least three minimum salaries, associate professor "four minimum salaries," professor "five minimum wages." An old wisdom states that whatever they say to you when they speak to you, it's only about money. Yeah, it's about money! I consider it normal for a professor in Bulgaria to take no less than the salary of a MP in the National Assembly! Otherwise, I would say that we put the Bulgarian academic staff in a discriminatory position. I would now like to give my most important consideration and the most important remark for which I have been lobbying for five years now.. five years after the introduction of the Law of 2010. Colleagues, strangely enough, to some, the retrograde, the third, may sound progressive, I think it is time to return in some form by another name to the Supreme Testimonial Commission. Why? Because we introduced one to a Romanian model in the award of academic titles and degrees, despite Romania's warning on the basis of their practice, that hundreds of professors, docs, were produced in Romania for 5 years, not to mention doctors of science! This Law in Bulgaria in its most vicious Romanian version for these five years has degenerated into the following. On the principle, you have been born in quotes hundreds of new professors and doctors, and according to the speeding procedure, I say again, on the principle of you, you to me. At this point, they were produced per kilogram of professors and doscs without having the necessary scientific qualities, without having real criteria for assessing their work Doctoral students who have spent years trying to become PhD students in the existence of the Supreme Testimonial Commission immediately after the introduction of this Law will confirm here people from the academic circles have literally managed to do doctorate in a few months. Naturally, the level is extremely low! It's no secret. What happens with the work of the higher attestation committees on educational institutions devalues the scientific degrees and titles and worsens the quality of teaching, and, of course, I repeat, this is the fault of the 2009 Law. I believe that it needs a radical change The rules on terms and conditions for acquiring scientific degrees, if we do not want them to devalue not only in our eyes, not only in front of our students, but also in front of the world community. If you don't believe me, see the rating of the Bulgarian universities against the rating of the other universities in the West and in the East! The Romanian model must be rejected by one blow, especially by legislative ones! I would also like to draw attention to the fact that one of the most important indicators related to the possibility of a quality level of the learning process is the ratio between the number of students trained and the number of teachers. I'll give you a statistical reference that says the trend is quite alarming. In 2012, compared to 1990 or in 22 years, the number of students in those years has increased exactly twice, and for the same period This is an extremely unpleasant and worrying trend for which there is only one explanation for money, low, miserable salaries that do not allow quality development of the academic staff. Finally, I would say that in the new Law, unfortunately, there is a very strange ratio between the planning reception in higher education institutions and the number of graduates of secondary education, which means that every student with an average success of 3.00, even with an assessment of 2.99, is only required to apply to the university in order to become his student! Such a mediocre student who automatically becomes a student will also be mediocre as a student! By the way, just a week ago the new Rector of Sofia University St. Kliment Ohridski is launching a similar idea for exams to become entrances to higher education institutions. It is understandable that the Rector of Alma Mater wishes to increase the candidate flow to Alma Mater. Every university fights for more students, but I ask myself: wouldn't this be at the expense of the quality of the students trained?! Won't the weakest and the unprepared get in?! Thank you for your attention. I hope that between first and second reading all these remarks will find their reflection.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u128	Thank you. Are there any lines? No. He has the word Lutvi Mestan. After that, "Julian Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am not going to repeat what I have already done correctly about the need for a whole new Law on Higher Education. I will just remind Mr. Minister that this is an obligation, as well as a strategy for the development of higher education. These six bills that we consider at today's meeting only show that the main body of the Law on Higher Education no longer reflects the new educational realities in which Bulgaria is located as part of the common European educational and scientific space. I also could not agree with the claim that the fact that we are looking at six laws today is a criterion for conducting a reform of higher education. No! I think the more correct definition here is that a number of drafts of these six govern important aspects of higher education, and therefore five of them will also receive the support of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. However, I believe that the discussion about the reform of higher education, dear Minister, has not even begun, let alone claim that a policy of reforms in higher education is taking place! Reform there will be when Bulgarian society and we are all convinced that behind the certificate of completed higher education is the minimum of competences. Unfortunately, in society there is a severe feeling and this is confirmed by a number of employers' analyses that the higher education diploma has long been no criterion for an exestic minimum competence to suggest successful realization of the labor market of graduates of higher education. Fact! We need to analyze the deep root causes of this. I will point to one that I hope no one will argue with. There is fear of applying the assessment standards for the simple reason that all higher schools are interested in a reverse process by lowering the admission criteria to have a maximum number of students because this indicator continues to be the only one for the financing of higher schools. In the same way they are pressed by the circumstances to lower the criteria for graduating from high school, to complete one, second, third year. You know that in our time it was very, very difficult to graduate from higher education. Now this is far from the most difficult challenge. And you and I know the reasons for that. Furthermore, I believe that in the current Law there are still some already too archaic, purely quantitative criteria for who can become a bachelor. Where in the world that you're very familiar with, I follow all your speeches and I dare say that the analysis is accurate to you, there is this absoluteization of the criterion, the quantitative criterion to study at least four years, eight semesters to complete your bachelor's degree? It seems to me that the system of accumulation and transfer of credit itself that has already been adopted should give advantages to the quantitative criteria for acquiring educational and qualification degrees in higher education. I am convinced that there are a number of specialties in which the educational-qualification degree can be acquired in six semesters, can be acquired in seven semesters. I can be even more specific about what is a nurse or midwife studying for four years? Eight semesters?! Who needs this? We made that mistake that coalition! Despite my warnings from this very tribune. We read the directives wrong. I wasn't heard, I'm not pointing out, but I can pull the stenographic protocols. No one asked Bulgaria for training for nurses and midwives for four years. They wanted to meet quality criteria. It's time to get that restriction in the Law. It's really insane. That would already smell like reform. Of course, I will also solidarity with the thesis expressed that the right policy for massaging higher education should not be at the expense of the final intellectual product which the Bulgarian universities produce. And combining the process of massaging higher education by devaluating quality criteria is unfortunately combined with an even more dangerous process of massisation and the process of acquiring academic positions and degrees. Not that it's bad to have more doctors on our own, to have more docs and professors.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u130	Do you need an increase in time?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u131	Yes, I'm pleading to increase the time. But if this process is not combined with the extraction of an existent-minimum, uniform scientific fitness criteria, and here I remind you once again that the word "habil" in literal translation means fit, fit for science we will not have made the reform. Absolutely. As for the specific bills, we will support this with importer Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs from GERB and the Reformation bloc. We, unlike colleagues from GERB, will also support the Bill of Prof. Borislav Velikov, because we think...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u132	Docent.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u133	Excuse me? Did you withdraw it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u134	No, I'm still an associate professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u135	Assoc. The consolation is that it's not in the opposite direction. Because I think it is good for Bulgaria to make efforts to export an intellectual product. There's nothing wrong with that. Without going into detail, if it is necessary to refine the texts, to do it between first and second readings, but at first reading to give this bill a chance. We will also support the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Higher Education Act submitted by you, Mr. Minister. I will not go into detail because the main statement I presented at the meeting of the Educational Commission. However, I would say that your initiative can also become a reform tool if your proposal to introduce the figure of a university that meets the requirements for research, this idea developed in the direction of art. 17, because this is the main member that regulates the types of higher schools in Bulgaria. The member says that the higher schools in Bulgaria in hierarchy are in order to notice the colleges, specialized universities and universities. That should mean colleges being at the broadest foundation of the educational pyramid. There's no such thing. Of 52 higher schools in Bulgaria, colleges remained several. At the next level should be specialized higher schools, universities, to cover far higher requirements of the current Law in order to be universities. What happened in Bulgaria? Since the adoption of this Law, everything that is a university has become a university. There are a few exceptions. When we have a differentiation of higher schools, but they've all practically become universities, Mr. Minister, we with this process have destroyed who killed the idea of a university. When everything is a university, we no longer have a university as a distinguishing marker from other types of higher schools. And what in other countries at best is a faculty at the university-mother, with us is not just a separate university, but a university now. I can also give you examples, but not to raise a scandal that we are proposing their restructuring. Therefore, if this idea is further developed and through it we rehabilitate the original idea laid down in the Law on what is a university or, in other words, the research universities are reflected in a separate order in art. 17 and on very strict criteria to be met, only part of higher schools acquire this status, you will also have the legal basis to unfold the real reform in terms of differentiated funding of higher schools, according to the quality of the intellectual product. If we agree on this between first and second readings, I will already agree with you that the reform has begun and in agreement, as it suits us when we talk about education and science, [[the President signals that time has run out]] we will have made an important reform of higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u136	Thank you. Are there lines?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u137	We will not support Mr. Slavov's Bill because he is offended by university autonomy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u138	- What's the line? I won't. The last statement was Julian Angelov. Here you go. In the meantime, are there any other volunteers? I won't. Then Minister Tanev will answer some of the questions raised.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u139	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I will address a topic which has been missed in these bills, but is also very important in view of the Bulgarian national interests, in view of the severe demographic crisis that is in Bulgaria, in view of the lack of young people who are enrolled in the Bulgarian higher education institutions. This topic is the reception of Bulgarians abroad. It is not affected perhaps only in one bill, where it concerns the opening of subsidiaries abroad, which is the problem with the higher education institution in Taraklia, which will eventually be able to become a subsidiary of a Bulgarian university and remain a Bulgarian educational institution. I do not see any proposals in the bills that concern how and in what way to ease it, to attract more students, Bulgarians abroad, who will come to study in the Bulgarian educational institutions, provided that every year 10 thousand units in Bulgaria remain free. The quota for Bulgarians abroad every year is shameful. She's 400 people. Four hundred people for Macedonia, Serbia, Albania, Moldova, Ukraine and so on. This year there were twice as many Bulgarians from Ukraine who applied to study higher education in Bulgaria. Naturally, with the quota allocated, there was no way to accept all of them. My request is to all importers and all Bulgarian MPs, respectively to the Ministry, to invent and to make concrete proposals for second reading, where it can legally be noted in the laws themselves that these people with priority are accepted in the Bulgarian higher education institution, that these people are supported by the Bulgarian state, that this number cannot be 400 people. I will give you an example in Romania, the Ministry of Education grants 2,000 units only for students from Moldova for free. Only for Moldova! And we, who are short on people who are enrolled in our educational institutions, for whom the state grants funds and remains unoccupied, are deprived of the Bulgarian diaspora, which can be attracted. That's why, Minister, my appeal is to you! Let the Ministry of Education engage more directly with the problems of Bulgarians abroad and their education, because this is more important than presenting Davutoglu's books at BAS. This is much more important because this is Bulgarian national interest and the other is Turkish national interest. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u140	Is there any line to Mr. Angelov's statement? I won't. There are no other speeches. Mr. Minister, please answer the question and summarize the discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u141	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs! At the last I will say that the presentation of books has nothing to do with it three times I have intervened our policy since Levski with that name. I absolutely agree with Mr. Mestan's last statement, especially for art. 17. In practice, I hear the great support for the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Higher Education and, if there is a discontent that is latent in every speech, it is that it is not more complete, it is not more uniform and it is not new. I've given myself permission to use it, Professor. Georgieva, the word "reforms" for one thing only. I explain to everyone that this is a step towards reforms and if they are strengthened, they strengthen between first and second readings with the amendments that we all agree on, I would be more pleased that the step is not only first but also large. As for the other, more of the speakers spoke in the future time, with.................................................................................................... I agree that a new law must be made. This must also be done materially, with substantial degrees of debate and finally with agreement. But it'll take time. That is why we need this Bill now, as long as it will take to adopt something and have consensus on it, which will be real for further. Therefore, I ask that it be supported, that what is now offered from six places is actually details of the same thing. These are the mini measures that must exist for nothing else, leave the other, there are many reasons that there are, but to match the requirements of the operational program because we are starting. We went great and the second Monitoring Committee, the Ministry did its job perfectly this year, now the money is coming. I will hardly speak, but I agree that it is not enough to look at the rating, it is not enough to look at the finances - yes, because besides finance there is also a structure. The structure and finances of the higher education institution coincide. With the old structure that we find at the moment, give them money for a common rating of the entire school, give the rector his money, with this money he will strengthen feudalism inside, will strengthen those who supported him, at the expense of those who did not support him. Because the choice of university management bodies is exactly the same as the choice of political representatives like you with secret votes, with I do not know what other measures and weights, except one which, by the way, is the tip of ice cream, namely how many books there are and how they are known. We're very jealous about something else. The most important structural unit of a university should be the department. In Bulgaria there is a university that makes it a new Bulgarian university. Abroad, all universities are on this principle. And in the archaic law that we are now toweling, no one has proposed one thing that needs to be done is not the time for it now in the ZID, but in a new Law, the Faculty. The faculty was the main one. What is the faculty, besides representatives of several majors, of which traditionally some are stronger and others are weaker? To all who are inside them, the IQ is very high. But when from one specialty they offer some other things, like some people have hours, something that is abstract or absurd, with many hours and unnecessary, the other specialties do not have the motivation to stop it. Give the money, let us give the money under a European programme to the current structure this will mean that with European money we respect the law of being anti-European. That's why I want a new law. But today we are gathered for who we need at this stage. Let's do it, let's make it the first step towards something that's more important. As for my expertise, Mrs. Professor, we will not talk about this, as Mr. Mestan said, about my teaching, but I am talking not about the tourist english, but about a lecture somewhere, but systematically, year-roundly, with student evaluations for every subject I have. I'm not talking about the management and authorship of two majors at Sofia University. I'm not talking about being on the Supreme Testimonial Commission and being taller than his lowest then... That's not what we're talking about. On this basis I have a feeling that I have to work, that I agree to work, but on the contrary I feel that I am the only one to do things alone. There are a lot of people in this room alone, so there's a debate that we think closely, together, but not equally. There are professors here, there are professors out there, and without consent we will achieve nothing. Everyone's nothing together. We're gonna do this thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u142	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We can now move on to voting on the several bills in the order of their submission. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, No 554-01-84, submitted by Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs on 29 April 2015. Vote 124 MPs: 107, Against 8, abstention 9. The bill has been passed. I am voting on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Higher Education Act, No 502-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 June 2015. Vote 126 MPs: 109 against 8, abstention 9. The bill was passed at first reading. Please vote on the next Draft Law amending and supplementing the Higher Education Act under No 554-01-143, submitted by Peter Slavov and a group of MPs on 24 July 2015. Vote 128 MPs: 54, Against 19, abstention 55. The bill hasn't been passed. Come in for a re-vote. [[Noise, lines from SG to DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I'm asking for a re-vote. There were colleagues who were still coming in and couldn't vote. In addition, I heard around my colleagues from GERB. Looks like some kind of misunderstanding worked out, just to rethink it. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u144	Mr. Mestan wants the same procedure for revoting, but since I was under the impression that he would want another procedure outside of the one concerning the bills, I gave the floor to Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u145	Thank you. My fellow Members, I have asked for this procedure not only because of these few people who have entered at the last moment and have failed to vote, but to appeal, above all, to the majority to reject this bill because it is offensive to the academic community in Bulgaria. This is the most brutal intervention in university autonomy that has been done in 25 years. Let me just remind you once again what you supported just now: a requirement for an academic person to take up the position of a Rector if he had previously had a minimum of 10 years of experience. And I ask: if a great professor, a great authority on the date of the election of Rector is 9 years and 364 days old, he has no right to run because he needs another day to mature as Rector? It's not just insulting, it's really embarrassing! There's nothing on the right side of this proposal. That's not right policy. With the new Law, we encourage younger academics, and now we restrict them to take academic, management positions. Excuse me, this is really embarrassing! And the Minister is good enough to still express his attitude and tell you where there are such restrictions in the world. [[Heckling]] We cannot, because of a specific case in Svishtov, violate the principle of university, academic autonomy. There's still a chance to spare yourself the shame and inconvenience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u146	Once the re-election procedure is over, we have to announce it immediately. The bill of Mr. Slavov and a group of MPs. They voted 125 MPs: 41, against 28, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. Procedure in the manner of conducting Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u147	Madam President, my remark is rather to your colleague, who had previously led, but it seems to me that a re-voting has the opportunity to be asked once by the Rules, and not to ask another person a second time, once such a re-voting has already been requested, and to essentially motivate arguments about a thesis or against a thesis, because that is exactly what has happened now. And I really patiently waited, and it seemed to me that you had to give me the opportunity to make this objection before the vote to understand what was going on. It is clear to me that, and I understand from Mr. Mestan's statement that he is still and essentially against this bill. I know that they are quite liberal in their parliamentary group, accepting people who have not learned their education, but here we have talked about some additional criteria that still seem reasonable to me as regards the rector of a higher education institution, to be met so that he can really self-esteem to lead the higher education institution in the interests of everyone, but whatever. That would have made sense to say it before the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u148	In this part of your procedure in the manner of conduct which concerns my actions, I would like to inform you that when we are in voting mode, and the re-voting procedure is precisely a announced voting procedure, it must first consist of: the proposal, the re-voting and only then to give the procedure requested by you in the manner of conduct. For this reason, I find it untenable for your objection. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, No 554-01-152, submitted by Borislav Mihailov Borisov on 15 September 2015. They voted 123 MPs: 96 against 6, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, No 554-01-153, submitted by Borislav Velikov and Milen Mihov on 15 September 2015. They voted 122 MPs: 99, none, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. Let's vote on the last Draft Law at first reading... A draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Higher Education, No 554-01-156, submitted by Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs on 16 September 2015. They voted 119 MPs: 25, against 61, abstention 33. The bill was not adopted at first reading. Moving on to the next point: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE TERRITORY TERRITORY LOCATION. Report for second reading Mr. Zelenogorski. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u149	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedure for admission in the hall of: Nikolay Nankov Deputy Minister, Milka Gecheva Head of National Building Control Directorate, Lydia Stankova Director of the Directorate of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and Stoyanka Ilova Expert in the Directorate of Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u150	I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 80 MPs: 74 against 4, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, invite the guests. We're listening, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u151	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! The Law on the Construction of the Area is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Construction of the Area. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u152	We vote. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u153	§ 1 "A proposal from the National Representative Nayden Zelenogorski: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 1: (a) point 1 is amended as follows: In Al. A third sentence is created: The composition of the competition commission may include representatives of professional organizations in the field of planning, investment design and construction. (b) point 2 is deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In para. The 2th sentence first is finally placed comma and is added by participating in the competition committee for free or at the expense of the organization they represent, representatives of the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria and of the Union of Architects in Bulgaria. 2. In para. 4 Finally a comma is placed and is added by inviting representatives of the Chamber of Engineers in the investment design, the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria and the Union of Architects in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u154	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u155	Madam President, honourable Members! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 2 and 4 is regulated the way to elect a Commission which elects a chief architect and, respectively, in para. 4 For Expert Council. On the initial proposal of the importer, one third of the composition of the Commission was asked to be from two organisations... The Union of Architects and the Chamber of Architects. This, for me, is a gross interference in the work of majority elected mayors who have the right to exercise their policies, and it is related to the personality of the chief architect, who is usually directly subordinate to the mayor or to the respective deputy mayor. By the way, the powers of the chief architect do not relate only to planning and investment design. He's also in charge of construction in a municipality, so I don't see any logic in bringing in these exact two organizations, and by law, through the mayor's head, to determine who's to be the chief architect. Mr. Zenogorski proposed an option in which the mayor actually decides what the Commission should be and how to choose the chief architect, respectively the Expert Council. The Commission, of course, softens the importer's proposal because it frankly binds the chief architect to people from these two organisations, to whom he will then be grateful for his choice, and offers a really moderate version, but still obliges the mayor to invite representatives of the said two organisations, although the quota of one third has already been avoided, and with regard to the Expert Council, another organisation is already generously granted to enter the Chamber of Engineers into the investment design. Mr. Zelenogorski's wordings are much better and more accurate. I urge you to think about it and this time support Mr. Zelenogorski's proposal, because it is related to independence, to the mayors' ability to exercise the policy they have planned and for which people have chosen them. I think it is wrong with the law to interfere so harshly with the mayor's work and put him in a situation to comply with organisations, and that is exactly what these are. Why aren't others invited? For example, why wasn't the House of Builders invited? I can list others who are relevant, but are not included in the texts of this Law and we do not insert them with the Law in the relevant committees. Usually when we look at a proposal, we look at it in the direction of what it aims and what the public effect of it will be. The Commission's so-defined proposal achieves nothing but bitterness in mayors and no benefit to society. Once again, I call on you to support Mr Zelenogorski's proposal, although it has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-26.u156	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote Mr Zelenogorski's proposal, not supported by the Commission. They voted 85 MPs: 18, against 10, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 1 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 84 MPs: 74, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, here we will interrupt the second reading of this Bill, as we are going to the final of the sitting. Parliamentary Control Communication on 27 November 2015, Friday 11:00: First will answer the Deputy Prime Minister of Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin to two questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Mihail Mikov and one question from the National Representative Slavi Binev. The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev will answer two questions from the MPs Mariana Boyadjieva and Stoyan Mirchev - general, and Tasco Ermenkov. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MP Martin Dimitrov and a question from the MPs Krasimir Karakachanov and Iskren Veselinov. Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova will answer two questions from the MPs Atanas Stoyanov and Atanas Merdjanov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova.. to three questions from the MPs Atanas Merdjanov, Borislav Iglev and Filip Popov; - Deputy Prime Minister for the Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva to a question from MPs Miho Mihov and Ivan Slavov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski, to a question with a written answer from the MPs Georgi Kuchukov and Petar Kadiev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to two questions with a written answer from the National Representative Philip Popov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Vasil Antonov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov of two questions from the MPs Zhelyo Boychev and Emil Raynov, Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Tarnowaliski, and three questions with written answer from the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Krassimir Bogdanov, and Emil Raynov and Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to three questions from the MPs Rumen Gechev, Georgi Svilenski, and Mihail Mikov, Dora Yankova, and Manol Genov, to a question with a written answer from the MP Zhelyo Boychev; - the Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva to two questions with written answer from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Petar Slavov; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to a question with a written answer from the MPs Mariana Boyadjieva and Stoyan Mirchev. Due to the absence of a Member of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answer to a question from the National Representative Yavor Haytov to the Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov is postponed. In the absence of the country, the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to illness the Minister of Culture Vecdi Rashidov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to a prior commitment the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski, Minister of Health Petar Moskov, Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva and Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will not participate in the meeting. Due to a prior commitment with international participation in the parliamentary control meeting, Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will not participate. Tomorrow is a regular sitting. Start time "9:00 p.m. I am adjourning today's plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
