ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. According to yesterday's programme for this plenary week, the first item for today is: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE COURT OF AUDITORS. Importers - Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. Before that, a message.. on the basis of art. 82 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the National Assembly, Volen Siderov, Desisslav Chukolov, Stanislav Stanilov, Yavor Notev, Lubomir Vladimirov and a group say that they withdraw the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Road Traffic Act, No 454-01-17 of 27 October 2014, and ask to be notified to the relevant committees and the National Representatives. A report of the Committee on Budget and Finance for the second vote of the Bill on the Court of Auditors has been received. Procedure before that. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I am making a procedural proposal for a direct broadcast of the debates under point four of the BNT and BNR programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u3	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put Mr. Popov's proposal to the vote. Vote 179 MPs: 68 against 73, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm doing a re-voting procedure to access the hall of...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u5	There is no such procedure, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u6	For direct transmission, excuse me. I'll do the procedure, if you'll allow me, and for access to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u7	You're renouncing the revoting request.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u8	I'm not giving up. I'm doing a re-voting procedure, but if two procedures are possible in one speech, I'll do them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u9	Make a request and they will be put to the vote separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u10	Proposal for access to the Chamber of the President of the Court of Auditors regarding the second reading of the bill Mrs. Lydia Rumenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u11	First, I will re-vote the proposal for direct broadcasting on radio and television, as it is an independent procedure for admission of guests to the Chamber. Rethinking the proposal for a direct broadcast. They voted 185 MPs: 66, against 84, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. Is there a reverse proposal for admission in Mrs. Rumenova's room? Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Tsonev's proposal for admission to the Chamber. Vote 176 MPs: 131 against 16, abstention 29. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mrs. Rumenova to the hall if she's here. We're listening, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u12	Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Bill for the Court of Auditors, No 454-01-60, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 8 December 2014, adopted in the first vote on 17 December 2014. Law on the Court of Auditors. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u13	Statements? I won't. I vote on the Commission's proposal for the name of the law. They voted 159 MPs: 138, against 2, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u14	"Chapter 1" - General. The Commission supports the name of Chapter One.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u15	Statements? I won't. We're voting the division. They voted 147 MPs: 126, against none, abstention 21. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u16	Under art. 1 supposed by MPs Rumen Gechev, Cornelia Nino, Petar Kanev, Chavdar Georgiev, Filip Popov, Maya Manolova, Dimitar Gorov, Georgi Tarnovalyski and Atanas Merdjanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2 the words "execution control' shall be replaced by "outside audit', and after the words "under this law' and "the methodology adopted by it' shall be added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u17	Statements? Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! Our proposal relates to the following objective circumstance: even in the translations from Bulgarian to English, almost all Chambers of Institutions specialising in carrying out such control over spending budget funds are audit institutions, which is why, in order to distinguish that the Court of Auditors is the most important function to carry out an audit and not at all to carry out controls, such as other institutions in the country, so we propose to explicitly stress that the Court of Auditors, both in all European and non-European countries, its main function is auditing. With this, I would like to argue our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u20	My fellow Members, I would like to motivate the opinion of the Commission, which does not accept this proposal. 1, the main article subject to this law and when we have recorded that the Court of Auditors controls the implementation of the budget, we have fully adopted what is art. 91 of the Constitution has said as an activity for the Court of Auditors. I mean, we think it's right, instead of free interpretations, to set foot in art. 1 of this law of the provision of the Constitution, which states that: The National Assembly shall elect the Court of Auditors, which shall supervise the implementation of the budget. I think it is more right to step on the text of the Constitution than to modify the texts in Bulgarian again.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The texts in one law, when it is especially new, must correspond with each other. In the following texts, for example in art. 5, The Budget Commission and the importers shall disprove themselves in the wording of art. 1, namely, explaining what activity the Court of Auditors is engaged in. The types of audits have been identified and it is underlined that, in so far as the Court of Auditors deals with other control actions, they are only those exclusively mentioned in the law and related to its audit activities. I suppose that, apart from lawyers and financiers, and economists, it is clear that the main activity of the Court of Auditors is audit activity, that it is a supreme audit body in the Republic of Bulgaria, so there should be nothing worrying if this is said in art. 1 indicating the subject of activity of the Court of Auditors. Moreover, if we reason within the meaning of these notions, obviously, that......................... is the broader concept. It is obvious that there are other control bodies, such as the State Financial Inspection Agency and other control bodies. The precise clarification of the meaning of the Court of Auditors' activities, I think, is in the interest of the law itself. I do not see anything disturbing in saying clearly in the first text that this is the supreme audit institution dealing with external audit and the other would mean that it is simply aligned with one of the numerous control bodies that exist in the Republic of Bulgaria, which is not in the interest of both the Statute of the Court of Auditors and its historically established functions and over 100 years. What I would also like to highlight and draw your attention to is the second part of our proposal, which is also not accepted by the Budget Committee. It is because it should be made clear that the application of internationally recognised audit standards is not automatic, in itself, but through the adoption of a methodology by the Court of Auditors, which is based on these standards. This is a factual action which I think is normal to be described in art. 1, para. 2, so we support our proposal. I think we have put forth enough arguments, and if this debate is going to be meaningful and essentially not stubborn, they should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u24	I'm very glad, Mrs. Manolova, that you want this debate not to be stubborn. And that is exactly where I want to justify my disagreement with you. I think it's al. 1 I have made it clear that it is better to refer to the text contained in the Constitution concerning the Court of Auditors. And I will no longer justify myself in this direction. As for this part of your statement, I think that this is also incorrect and I will refer again to the Constitution, to the same article. 91, only this time on para. 2 which I should like to quote, namely: the organisation, the powers and order of the Court of Auditors' activities are governed by this law. It is the whole law that obeys para. 2. And for a reason in the following texts of art. 5 and you will see further that there is also talk of a methodology by which the Court of Auditors will apply international audit standards. This is not the place in art. 1 to say how the Court and its employees will apply these standards, supported by a methodology which is an internal document and which does not belong in art. 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 we must say what the Constitution has said, that is to say that the Court controls the budget, and the entire law is further under para. 2 which shows the order in which this control is carried out. Really, if he's not stubborn, I think he is. 1 must comply with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Any other lines? I won't. Mrs. Manolova, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, I will not argue on the second part of our proposal, because it is really not that important. The bigger problem is related to the subject of the Court of Auditors' activity. And here again, I would like to point out to you that there is a serious contradiction between the texts in the law. Read it, fellow Members. In the first text, you claim that the Court of Auditors controls and in art. 5 You explain that the Court of Auditors conducts four types of audits and control activities only in relation to the audit work of the Court of Auditors. That is to say, it becomes apparent that the activities of the Court of Auditors are carrying out audits, that the control is only within the framework of these audits, so that the equilibristication in art. 1 is really inexplicable, for any lawyer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 146 MPs: 34 against 84, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 129 MPs: 104, against 18, abstention 7. The text of the importer for art. 1 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u28	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Articles 2, 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u29	Statements? I won't. We vote on the texts of the importer for Articles 2, 3 and 4, which are supported by the Commission. They voted 136 MPs: 111, against 6, abstention 19. The import texts of Articles 2, 3 and 4 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u30	Article 5 "A proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 5 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 t. Four down. 2. A new para is being created. 2: The Court of Auditors may also carry out combined audits which combine financial audit, compliance audit and performance audit approaches. Where the audit is carried out under a special law or the audit entity is specific, the audit shall be defined as specific and may be carried out as an audit of compliance, audit of implementation or as a combined audit. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2 and 3, which is reflected in § 1, t. 6, and doesn't support it by t. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u31	Please, before that, let us vote on the name of Chapter 2 of the Court of Auditors' Finances, Statute and Budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u33	The Commission supports the name. Please vote on the name of Chapter 2 "Functions, Statute and Budget of the Court of Auditors." They voted 134 MPs: 113, against 2, abstention 19. The name of Chapter 2 by importer has been accepted. Now we move on to statements under art. 5. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of MP Rumen Gechev and others in the part which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 134 MPs: 39, Against 56, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the text of the importer for art. 5 under the Law, which is supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 130 MPs: 105, against 7, abstention 18. The text of the importer for art. Five has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u34	Article 6? a proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 3 point (b) which is reflected in art. 61, para. 2, supports it and so on. 3 (a) and 3 (b) 4 The proposal has been withdrawn and does not support the proposal under points 1 and 2, which I will now read: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2, p. 4 the words.. the accounts for... at the beginning of the text are dropped. 2. In para. 3, p. 2 after the word "Securities', at the end of the sentence, a comma shall be placed and the commercial companies with state and/or municipal participation in the capital of more than 1 million shall be added. lv Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which the Commission supports. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 6: "Access of audit work Art. 6. (1) The Court of Auditors shall audit: 1. the state budget; 2. the budget of state social security; 3. the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund; 4. the budgets of the municipalities; 5. other budgets adopted by the National Assembly. (2) The Court of Auditors shall audit and: 1. the budgets of the authorising officers with budget of the budgets under para. 1 and the management of their property; 2. the budgets of budgetary organisations under art. 13, para. 3 and 4 of the Public Finance Act; 3. the budgetary resources allocated to persons engaged in business activity; 4. the accounts for EU funds and other international programmes and contracts under art. 8, para. 2 and 4 of the Public Finance Act, including their management by the relevant authorities and end-users of the funds; 5. the budgetary expenses of the Bulgarian National Bank (BNB) and their management; 6. the formation of the annual excess of revenues over the expenses of BNB due to the state budget and the other relations of the bank with the state budget; 7. the emergence and management of government debt, government guaranteed debt, municipal debt and the use of debt instruments; 8. the privatisation and concession of state and municipal property, as well as the public funds and public assets provided to persons outside the public sector; 9. the implementation of international agreements, contracts, conventions or other international acts where provided for in the relevant international act or entrusted by an authorised authority; 10. other public funds, assets and activities when it is entrusted with law. (3) The Court of Auditors shall carry out audits of: 1. state-owned enterprises under art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law; 2. commercial companies with more than 50 percent state and/or municipal capital participation; 3. legal persons having obligations guaranteed by the State or obligations guaranteed by state and/or municipal property. (4) The Court of Auditors shall carry out audits of the management and disposal of public assets and liabilities irrespective of the basis for such management and disposal and the legal situation of the persons who carry out it. (5) The Court of Auditors shall draw up reports with opinions on the implementation of the state budget, the budget of the state social security, the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund and the budgetary expenditure of the BNB, which it shall submit to the National Assembly. (6) The Court of Auditors may also audit the accounts for foreign funds of the budgetary organisations.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u35	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We're here on one of the most important, perhaps one of the first five important moments in the changes of the law. I'll ask my colleagues for their attention. I'm only gonna go with one element. We propose that the Court of Auditors audit not only commercial companies that have more than 50% State participation but commercial companies where state participation is more than 1 million. lv. I'll tell you the argument I'd be interested in if he could object. He's like this. Let's assume there's a mixed company of 100,000. lv. capital and the State participates with 51 thousand. lv. It falls into state participation over 50% and is audited. And what will happen to a state-owned company that we have, which is, for example, 500 million. lv. Or 2 billion. lv. In addition, the Commission notes that it is not possible to assess the compatibility of the measure with the internal market and to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. BGN 300 million BGN, 2 billion lv.? Under the proposed changes in the law, we are proposed not to audit 1 billion. BGN, but to audit 51 thousand. lv. We explained in the Commission that this is not a technical error, which is why we insist on the money of the Bulgarian taxpayers, which is over 1 million. lv. State participation, whether 1% or 51%, to be audited by the Court of Auditors. In conclusion, it makes no sense, colleagues, that we should audit 51,000. BGN, but not to audit 510 million. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u37	Thank you, Professor. Gechev. - What's the line? I won't. Here's your speech, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u38	Mr. Gechev, I understand your desire that the Court of Auditors should be able to audit every public lev wherever it is, but unfortunately you have no idea what number of companies it is. This is an argument for which you will say that it is not essential, i.e. whether the Court of Auditors has the resources to conduct such audits or not. More important, in my opinion, is the other argument that is applied in the texts of the law, namely to audit companies with more than 51% State participation, regardless of the amount of that participation, because then the State is actually involved in the management of this company and can decide on its management. When the State participates with a small share of.. less than 51%, regardless of what decisions are made, very often the state cannot influence these decisions. Such audits would not have a direct effect on the management of these companies. You understand it very well because the state can't manage them, but the effect would be good for the newspapers to be able to present what is happening. I do not think that the Court of Auditors should work for the newspapers and disperse its resources. Another point is that the state, wherever there is a participation of more than 51% or less than 51%, actually has a principal of this participation. He is responsible for how the company is managed. In carrying out an audit of this principal, the Court of Auditors may indirectly audit such participation, in the context of how this principal manages these budgetary resources, have any effect on the State's participation in such companies. This audit would be more useful because then it would give us reasons to get rid of a given participation as a country when it is not effective for the state, or to look for options to expand this participation in order to gain control of the state in such companies. However, these are other decisions that can be drawn from such an audit. Just to disperse the Court of Auditors without any real effect, provided that there is a way to audit the effectiveness of this participation through the principal, I find it unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u39	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any lines? Here you are, dear Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I do not accept the arguments of colleague Stoyanova, as we must decide, I repeat, whether we will audit 510 million or 51 thousand. The resources of the Court of Auditors are the same in both cases of verification. This is the President of the Court of Auditors. We have spoken to the management of the Court of Auditors. It has no problems controlling hundreds of millions that the Bulgarian state spends. If we will directly audit the Ministry, and it will manage state participation, what is the point of the Court of Auditors then? It is not a political issue, it is a question of the interest of the Bulgarian taxpayers. We do not have the right to leave hundreds of millions of left-handed and, at the same time, to send audits to small settlements of 500 thousand or 1 million. lv. We insist that this is our duty to protect the interest of the Bulgarian taxpayer. There's nothing to mourn about the Court of Auditors. It's her job to organize the checks. We are obliged to monitor and control the spending of the funds of the Bulgarian taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u41	Thank you, Professor. Gechev. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u42	Dear Mr. Gechev, as a former minister you should know that the Ministry of Economy...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u43	The line is for Mrs. Stoyanova, not Mr. Gechev. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u44	Ms. Stoyanova, as you know the activities of the Ministry as a third term MP, you know that there are a number of companies that are privatized, but in which the state has one percent, half percent, two percent. In hundreds of companies, the State has minority participation within a few percent. If colleagues' proposals are accepted, it seems to me that all these companies will have to be audited by the Court of Auditors. Perhaps this should be considered and pointed out to fellow Members who propose otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Third line.. People's representative Yordan Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, the Court of Auditors' capacity argument is not serious. I'll tell you why. When, in 2005, I proposed that the Court of Auditors be the body that will conduct the files on the property of the persons holding high public positions, then the Head of the Court of Auditors. Dimitrov also objected with the argument that files up to five, eight, 9,000 people could very hardly happen, but as you can see, this happened due to this proposal then accepted. Today the public has access to our property declarations. However, I will say an argument to support whether or not it should be audited and one against. The argument that the Court of Auditors may not audit these companies is that they are subject to control by the principal, but are also subject to control by the NRA, another state control body, and the highest, tax authority, is also subject to control as commercial companies. At the same time, we could think that this proposal is not unnecessary if we accept it. Although the State cannot influence, as it concerns minority shares, an audit by the Court of Auditors could suggest the principle that it is not effective for us to participate in such a company and the State to withdraw this participation. So I rather think it's a good idea to accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u47	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mrs. Stoyanova, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Tsonev, I said for a reason that capacity is an advising argument, because if we decide to burden the Court of Auditors with any responsibilities, we will also have to give it resources for that. So this is an advising argument. On the other hand, I use your example that the Court of Auditors is doing serious work in relation to public figures' declarations, as well as their files and so on, which, for me, is definitely non-existent for the supreme audit institution. We in this Chamber have decided that it is the most appropriate body to carry out such activities and have provided it with the capacity to do so in the form of a budget. So I'm not going to dwell on that argument. However, I would like to get back to the other argument. In practice, if the Court of Auditors considers in the course of an audit of a ministry which is a principal in a company with minority participation, the Court of Auditors may also audit how it manages its property because it is the scope of an audit of a ministry, it may verify how this ministry has managed its assets in the part of the minority share, but not the company itself. The purpose of the Court of Auditors is to examine the budget, budget and property managed through the budget, namely such property. I therefore believe that this is within the Court's powers in the course of the audit of the principals, and an unnecessary burden will be to record it here, in this law, in such a way that the Court will, in any event, oblige the Court to enter into similar companies in which the State, unfortunately, does not have a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u49	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. For the next speech there is the national representative Maya Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u50	Mr President, honourable Members, from the debate so far, we understand that the Court of Auditors will not audit millions, tens of millions, hundreds of millions of levs that the state has provided to various companies. That is, the state will give money, but it will not control, it will not audit the way they are used and spent. However, there is another worrying text in this article that we understand that, apart from the fact that the State through the Court of Auditors will not be interested in how the millions of levs it has provided to commercial companies are managed and spent, the state will not be interested in the Court of Auditors and how European money is spent. It's about our proposal under point. 4 to para. 2 which, according to an importer, says: the Court of Auditors will audit the accounts for EU funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u51	It's very clear who you're going to audit!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u52	It's hard for me to answer Mr. Ivanov's yelling in the front row. I will ask him to take a look at the other points of this text, of which it is clear that the Court of Auditors has audited budgetary resources under this heading. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ERDF) and the European Social Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ERDF) and the Cohesion Fund (ERDF) of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), That is, only when it comes to European money, the Court of Auditors does not control, does not audit in particular the funds audited the accounts. Let's look at what the Public Finance Act says, in so far as the justification of the importers is related to the text of this law. There it is said: The accounts for EU funds are a financial and legal form for obtaining, allocating and spending budgetary organisations, of EU funds. "I mean, the Court of Auditors will only carry out the financial and legal form, which means financial audit. If we go back to art. 5 which we have just accepted, it is said that the Court of Auditors is carrying out several types of audits. In addition to purely financial audit, it shall carry out: compliance audits; implementation audits; specific audits. In other words, EU funds should not only be subject to a financial audit for the accounts of funds, but also to compliance audits, which means the legality of their use; enforcement audits, which also means verification of public procurement of the use of those funds. This is indeed a worrying text by which importers say that, under this law, the Court of Auditors will only limit itself to auditing the accounts for European money. There is no symmetry in the article itself. 6, in the very subparagraph, because if you are right, honourable Mr. Ivanov of the first order, it is correct to say the accounts for the funds and the funds, this term should also be used for all other budget funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u53	That's what the Public Finance Act says.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u54	For example, on the e.g., on the e.g., on the e.g., on the e.g. 3: the budgetary resources provided to persons engaged in business; the budgetary expenses of the Bulgarian National Bank and their management; the budgets of the officers with other public budgets. Only with regard to European money will the Court of Auditors conduct a financial audit, not a compliance audit, not an implementation audit. There will be no control over public procurement, there will be no audit of the legality of the funds spent, and ultimately the effect of their use. I don't understand your stubbornness, unless there's some sort of back-up thought about controlling, auditing the spending of European funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? Mrs. Stoyanova, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u56	My line will be on both sides of the statement. The first part in which Mrs. Manolova tried to impress on the House that, in practice, funds in minority shares would be left without audit, I think I made it clear that there would be no such danger if the Court of Auditors actually audited the property, including in that part of it. I would like to refer to the other comment, which is absolutely irrelevant. The aim of the implementation of the European Union funds accounts is to synchronise with the Public Finance Act. I want to read you art. 8 of the Public Finance Act, which says: "The EU's funds and related national co-financing are administered and managed by budgetary organisations through accounts for EU funds. "This does not mean that the audit will only be carried out on the accounting records of these accounts. That's funny. What kind of audit will be carried out on these accounts, whether it will be an audit of implementation or an audit of financial management, is a matter of a decision of the Court of Auditors. I assure you that what it says here in no way limits the Court of Auditors' ability to audit these funds. Mrs. Manolova, I fully understand her. However, she is a lawyer, and she always seeks to interpret the texts from a legal point of view. In this case, however, the link is the Public Finance Act and the way in which it formulates these accounts. In fact, the idea of being formulated in this way in this law was to distinguish this money from other national budget funds, and they can be audited on all types of audits at the discretion of the Court of Auditors. So I don't accept your argument, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Second line of Mrs. Manolova's speech. Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Manolova, I didn't know you were an audit specialist. I just want to remind you of the text of the current law: Scope of the audit work........................................................................................... 13, para. 2, p. 4: The European Union funds and programmes, including their management by the relevant authorities and end-users of funds. You claim that at least with this impression I got, with this impression I also got during the Commission, although your colleagues were convinced in our arguments that there will be no problem now and only the accounting records will be audited, which is absolutely untenable. We've already made arguments. Deal with the Public Finance Act. There are simply requirements that we must comply with and comply with. I personally don't understand what your concern is?! And whoever wrote your arguments in the opposite direction is better off dealing with the legal base that is currently operating. The fact that there is a written concept of the account, once again, does not mean that it is verified that the clean reporting, accounting reporting of the accounts is checked, but it is merely verified the action with these funds and the corresponding consequences, if any, negative for the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u59	Thank you. Here's a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Manolova, I'm sure you know what a legal basis means. In view of this, I am making this third line for you because we really should ask ourselves whether the audit of the Court of Auditors has been made in accordance with the Public Finance Act so far or not? Perhaps the President of the Court of Auditors could answer? Because contrary to your expectations in art. 6, para. 2, p. 4 The importers, among which I am, have written a text that: The accounts for EU funds and other international programmes and contracts under art. 8 of the Public Finance Act shall be audited, including their management by the relevant authorities and end-users. That is, operational activities with the funds under these European programmes will be audited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u61	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues who have replicated me! Dear Mrs. Yordanova, I am a lawyer and somehow I do not accept the trust of what would be the intentions and good faith of one body or another, even less the Court of Auditors. Therefore, based on the legal wording of the term "the accounts of the European Union', I say to you again that, in the Public Finance Act itself, the definition of accounts is only the financial-legal form, which means financial audit, management of accounts. Management of accounts is different from management of funds, because management of funds means public procurement, legality, the end result of the use of these funds. This means the implementation of the other two types of audits, which are recorded in the preceding text, an audit of implementation, an audit of compliance. It is clear that when it comes to accounts, given the definition in the Public Finance Act, only one part of the management of European funds is taken into account. What you have quoted concerns the text so far, which refers to the audit of funds. This is exactly what we have proposed with our colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria. If you were right, the other audits would not be defined as audits of budgetary resources, public funds, budgetary expenditure, and only in terms of European money to talk about accounts. This means that I do not accept your declarations of confidence from the stands, but I want the texts on the powers and commitments of the Court of Auditors to make it clear that it will also be obliged to audit through compliance audits, implementation and financial audits how the various institutions in Bulgaria spend European money. I think that this issue will also interest the European institutions themselves. So let's read the texts and not accept the things of great confidence. I suggest, since you were so consensual today, that you allow Mrs. Rumenova in the Chamber, to let her answer the questions asked. For example: may the Court of Auditors audit commercial companies in which the State has provided assets or funds for more than 1 million. lv.? Because that is also an alarming fact. How can the state give money, provide property and then not be interested in how it is managed, the way in which these funds are managed?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u63	Mrs. Manolova, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u64	Here we want clear commitments. Please accept this as a procedure and give Mrs. Rumenova the opportunity to participate in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u65	Mr. Vlado Nikolov. [[The National Representative Stanislav Ivanov wants the floor for a personal explanation. Replies from GERB.]] What's the statement? [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] Please, it was generally addressed to you and the remark was somewhat correct that you were calling from the spot. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] To speak, Mr. Gorov. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] You want Mrs. Rumenova? Okay. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u66	We want the floor for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u67	If you don't give me the floor for a personal explanation, I want the floor in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u68	You're welcome to join us in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know why you don't give me the right to a personal explanation, since Mrs. Manolova tried several times to turn around, even she turned to me, naming me by name and referring to exactly who she was addressing because she said where I was sitting. Since she's addressing me, you're obliged to give me the floor for a personal explanation. Because Mrs. Manolova, Mr. Chairman, interpreted things that were not clear to her. It did not distinguish, for example, between an object and ways of carrying out an audit, such things that are simply not clear to it. In that case, I ask you to follow the Rules strictly, not to interpret it as Mrs. Manolova interprets the laws. A lawyer can't interpret financial audit laws and so on. [[Noise and lines.]] You have no right! Here, colleagues, we already know what was done last year because this Law was amended then. Last year, these gentlemen, in order to change the management of the Court of Auditors... Then why didn't you write down a million for the companies? Why didn't you record it? Because you weren't looking! Why didn't you introduce the $1 million requirement in the Law you changed? And now you want to make the Court of Auditors a repressive body. End of story!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u70	Mr. Ivanov, thank you. I take it you had the opportunity to explain yourself. I give Mrs. Rumenova a chance to speak if she wishes, of course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u71	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Stoyanova! Thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak under this law. Specially on issues of audits of commercial companies. All types of audits carried out by the Court of Auditors are an organisation, the issue is priorities, planning real, audit capabilities and capacity. The Court of Auditors shall have this in its possession. As you know very well, with last year's law, the Court of Auditors included the audit of municipalities with a budget of up to 10 million. lv. "An extremely important audit for me because, although they have small budgets they accumulate a significant reserve, they operate with over 6 billion assets. So the Court of Auditors has the capacity to deal with what will be entrusted by law. With regard to the audit of the accounts for European funds. There is no doubt that it is only an audit of accounts, because, as the law is proposed, as well as reading it, it is about managing accounts, it is not about managing funds. You can check anywhere in the law in the following provisions...................................................................................................... 54, para. 1, t. 4 shall be referred to the monetary accounts of the EU accounts, in the text of art. 56, para. 1 again talks about EU funds accounts. There is no doubt that the systematic version of the texts in the entire law speaks only of accounts, of managing accounts, and that implies only financial audit. So there could be no doubt in this regard of the interpretation of the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Rumenova. For speech Mr. Vladislav Nikolov, who is recorded, followed by Mr. Dimitar Gorov, Mr. Slavov, Mrs. Yordanova. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u73	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I wish we could get this debate back constructive, but the atmosphere's getting a little hot in the room. The statement of the current President of the Court of Auditors has been very lean, but I will return to colleagues who have expressed a serious desire to take part on topics that are not clear to them, at least if they had come to committee, because we have reached some conclusions quite dialogue there, but because you have made proposals that you cannot withdraw, so we are looking at them right now. Otherwise, the dialogue was professional and was cleared at every point. I would like to return to how to audit state-owned companies with a percentage of State participation, i.e. companies in which we have a percentage of State participation. Just so you know, there are 370 auditors in the Court of Auditors. These 370 auditors must carry out the audits for the entire year of state-owned companies, of municipalities. With your proposal, you want to check the small municipalities and know that there are 265 municipalities in Bulgaria. In my opinion, all of what you are proposing at the moment is for one single purpose that this Court of Auditors is not working, and that is my view. So we let the big things not be checked out for checks that will be done and will not make any sense. I'll tell you about the companies. Companies being checked, if we accept your proposal, what will it lead to? Firstly, on the board of directors, the State's share is small. They can accept, they may not accept this audit at all, and the Court of Auditors' recommendations may examine them and not consider them. What will this lead to in the business of the trading company? An audit is done by a team, that is, not by one person, but by several people. Find out what resources we're going to throw out to do some checks that won't make any sense? Therefore, when you are making proposals that we have commented on to the Budget Committee, for which we have reached some consensus, even among all parties, it is not right for colleagues who have a vague idea of this activity to make speeches and defend positions that are more or less uniform so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u74	Thank you. - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u75	Thank you. My fellow Member, I do accept your arguments on the capacity and capacity of the Court of Auditors to handle such a large amount of work, but I would like to tell you once again that the focus is not in capacity. The emphasis, my fellow Member, is that the Court of Auditors has the right and obligation to audit the relevant Ministry principal in this company, to audit the property and the way in which the ministry manages it, and the property is its share in the company concerned. Thus, it is a matter of risk assessment, a question of choice, a type of audit, a programme of the audit concerned, in order to control, in the general sense, the activities of those companies in which there is a minority State share. That's the accent, ladies and gentlemen. Everything else that you are told that in practice these companies and this state share is excluded from audit is manipulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Opportunity for a second line? I don't see anyone who wants to. [[Heckling]] A hole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u77	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I agree with the President of the Budget Committee. I want to tell you that we have reached a very serious consensus on both this point and the others. Some people didn't attend this committee, didn't hear the arguments, didn't hear which members this was written in and where the properties of the ministries should be audited, that these companies also enter there, that there is such an opportunity. That's why there's a debate that's absolutely pointless right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u78	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. To speak, the People's Representative Dimitar Gorov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u79	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The most visible tension comes around the possibility of auditing companies in which the State has minority shares, but they are in fact over 1 million. lv. Why do we want this to be accepted in our proposal? For several reasons. First of all, there is no way to separate what Mr. Gechev said by auditing 50,000. BGN, let's leave somewhere where the state has over 1 million. This money is not to be audited. I kind of agree with Mrs. Stoyanova that by auditing one ministry, which is a minority owner in one or another company, the Court of Auditors is entitled to audit this company eventually. But we're not talking about funds, we're talking about assets. Ladies and gentlemen, we are interested in the existence of the physical presence of the assets in the capital of one or another company, we are interested in, after all, what is happening on the basis of the exploitation of this asset, what are the funds that are being earned, how are they managed? Does the State as a shareholder, albeit minority in this company, receive certain dividends for the existence of this asset or, in one way or another, the management of these assets is not good, it does not support the State, but only exploits the capital of the State? Because I don't somehow imagine the state as a donor of certain companies, and one way or another, by providing them with assets, we don't care what happens to this thing. The State cannot be regarded as some large owner who provides some assets.. Someone accumulates any funds based on the exploitation of these assets and we do not know in any way what is happening to these assets. For this reason, we believe that it is extremely important that precisely such audits be not by default and at the request of the Court of Auditors, but that they be considered to be an obligation. As far as capacity is concerned, whether the Court of Auditors is able to carry out these audits, I believe that this is not the important issue. Ladies and gentlemen, from just a few texts forward in your proposal for amendments to the Law of the Court of Auditors, it is clear that the audits of municipalities below 10 million are being removed, which will almost further reduce the need for additional auditors, you said for more than 300 auditors, which will be further unloaded, reducing the audited municipalities according to this proposal if it is adopted only after a few texts. For this reason, I believe that the question of capacity and the existence of a sufficient number of people to carry out audits in companies where the State is involved, albeit minority, will not be a problem in terms of the functioning of the Court of Auditors. I therefore believe that this proposal can be supported and that it will have a positive effect on the future management of private property. In addition, such an audit may enable the owner to assess the asset if it does not work, creates no additional value, is not well managed by the company or majority owner in the company, the State may decide whether to participate in that company or not. That's also an argument that should weigh in the direction...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u80	Audit, valuation of assets that warrant?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u81	I think this can be accepted and be positive.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u82	Thank you, Mr. Gorov. The line is Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u83	Mr. Gorov, thank you very much for your speech. I fully support you that it must be clear how these assets are managed, however small they may be. Just in support of your speech, I would like to quote you, para. 4 of the article in question. Six, which we've been debating for 40 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, there writes: The Court of Auditors shall carry out audits of the management and disposal of public assets and liabilities regardless of the basis for this management, i.e. whether they are managed by a private company or not. You see, by entering into an audit of the principal, by checking its property, they are entitled to enter the company in question, regardless of whether it is private, and to carry out an audit of the management and disposal of this property. So this has it and is written down, and once again shows that there is no point in such recording, but is a matter of organisation and risk assessment on the part of the Court of Auditors how it will carry out its audit. As for the capacity of the Court of Auditors, I agree with you that capacity can be given, but capacity is ultimately always additional funds. Whenever such funds are given, this is also the purpose of the Court of Auditors, it must be spent effectively and efficiently, i.e. looking for a return on these funds, i.e. really making sense, giving an additional budget to the Court of Auditors, additional numbers, to expect a return. As for the fact that the audit of these minority shares will give information to its owner in the face of the principal, I think that if he is waiting for the Court of Auditors to find this, he is no principal and does not carry out his activities within the framework of the law. The Court of Auditors must also establish that it does not carry out its activities and that it has not found that these funds are being managed inefficiently.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Second line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Gorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u85	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Stoyanova! It was not for a reason that I stressed on the terminology that it should not be the right of the Court of Auditors to audit or not to audit but to be an obligation in this whole situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u86	You don't trust the Court of Auditors?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u87	It is not that I do not trust the Court of Auditors, but I think that the role of the Members of the National Assembly is not to believe or not to believe, but to define the rules under which the institutions will act. From this point of view, it is important for me that this is not a right but an obligation of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u88	It is an obligation in para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u89	As for whether it is in para. 4, in another text, we say that practically only companies in which the State is majority owner or has more than 51 per cent will be audited by the Court of Auditors. I can make a proposal that will enable us to audit all companies by removing from the text, for example, the 51 percent, and thus by examining all companies in which the State has majority and minority shares. In this way, the problem will be solved and we will escape from the colony whether the Court of Auditors is to audit or not to audit and how to make this decision.......................................................................................... In this sense, I do not think that the arguments are in favour of your proposal. As for capacity, yes, capacity increases are in principle always an increase in resource. I say again: in the proposal made in this Bill, only a few members are dropping out of the commitment ahead of time.. You are proposing to drop the commitment of the Court of Auditors to audit small municipalities, which will practically release time, resource, auditors who will be able to carry out this activity. For this reason, I do not believe that this will actually lead to an increase in the financial commitments of the State for the maintenance of the Court of Auditors in terms of increasing its capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u90	Thank you, Mr. Gorov. Mr. Petar Slavov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will be very brief. I very much appreciate the concern on the left, which is being demonstrated, for spending public funds. In this regard, I would like to make an editorial proposal in art. 6, para. 3, p. 2, i.e.: the text of the companies with more than 50 per cent state or municipal participation to become the companies with 50 or more per cent state and municipal participation. We therefore include companies with 50 per cent state and municipal participation, the so-called companies incorporated. In order not to be quite naked and to imagine what I am referring to, you think of this project company, which received some 200 million leva from the state last year despite the order of the Minister of Energy then, and now it is not clear what is going on with those over 200 million, after the South Stream project has been stopped, whether they will return to the state or whether the company will spend it and what is going on with these funds?! There's exactly 50:50. On second thought, in fact, your proposal to carry out an audit of more than 1 million participations may cover similar cases. I hope you don't withdraw your offer before then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u92	Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u93	Mr. Slavov, I want you to listen to me very carefully. In the previous paragraph, it is recorded: companies with more than 51 per cent of public participation, because in these companies the State manages the State if it has more than 51 per cent. It is normal for the Court of Auditors to enter them and see how the state manages. However, when we are talking about companies where the State does not effectively manage, since there is no 51 per cent State participation, it is more important that the Court of Auditors sees the principle of the Ministry concerned, in this case the company that you have set for example, it is within the scope of the Court of Auditors' audit, how it manages the property in this company. That's the difference. And since it has no reason to manage the company, as someone else is taking the decisions there, the Court of Auditors is going to check the property of this principal.............................................. the state company........................................... the Court of Auditors will check the state company and will check the assets of this principal........................................................................................................................................... This is all within the scope of the Court of Auditors' audit. You just have to understand it as types of audits and meaning of it. In one sense, the state rules, and that is why it is directly entered, and in the other case the state does not manage, and that is why it must be entered into the one that manages, albeit minorityly, if this can be called management at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u94	Any other lines? Here you go, Professor. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u95	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague! First of all, let's make one clarification that's not that important, but to make it clear to people. Not above 51% if the participation is 50,0001, it's still a majority owner. There's no reason to discuss arithmetic. So over 51% really excludes 1%, but this is not the discussion. There are attempts to water down the discussion here. It is said, my fellow Member, and in your speech, that it is very important how funds are used effectively if the state manages more than 50%. That doesn't matter. The state can run well, it can run badly. You tell the Bulgarian people that if the taxpayer's participation is below 50%, it could be 5 billion, the Court of Auditors will not be interested in what happens to these 5 billion. You insufficiently marked the other part of the discussion concerning property. Dear colleagues, what difference does it make if the Court of Auditors will check with the Ministry whether his property is there, for example, the X machine? This is about what income the X machine carries and what the interest of the state is. In addition, by this logic, that it can be verified in the Ministry, what is the logic of checking a company over 50%, honourable colleagues, since we can check with the Ministry? Would you respond to common sense? So in one case, if it's over 50%, we'll check the Ministry, if it's over 50%, we won't check. It's hundreds of millions of taxpayers' money. There's nothing to fool around with. We are voting in plenary, honourable Members, taking the printout from the vote and going to explain to the Bulgarian voters who voted how to check hundreds of millions or five levs or not to check. Everything else is So let's vote to protect the citizens' interest. After participating with hundreds of millions of leva, colleagues, whether 1% or 50% does not matter. We are obliged to protect the Bulgarian interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u96	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Third line? Here you are, Mr. Slavov, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad, fellow Members, that you understand that this case is important. I think analyzing 0.00% if they're excluded from the scope of the audit is not a good idea. As a matter of fact, since we're talking about this case, I don't know if you're aware of it, but this project company in question, not once or twice, has refused to provide the necessary documentation, including the Ministry. This was heard from this tribune by the Prime Minister, who, if you remember, then said they refused to give him the documents. So let us not reason and give them the opportunity to stall, but to feel bound by the law when an audit comes in and order them to provide the necessary documentation, to provide it. They and any other similar company in which the state participates equally with another entity 50-50. These companies usually have mixed management, i.e. one representative of the state and one representative of the other entity, and they both make the decision together. So I think this could be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. For the procedure Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I think it has been said enough by art. 6. That is why I propose a procedure to end the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u100	A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u101	I'm doing a reverse procedure with the following arguments, colleagues. This is one of the most important texts in the law and as a result of its adoption, change or rejection will depend on other texts afterwards. Besides, half an hour ago and more we've applied for a statement. If you'd like to respect our will and give everyone the opportunity to say their position. Thank you. I'm also the importer of these texts, so please also as such.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u102	You're addressing the MPs, aren't you? I put to the vote the procedure proposed by Mr. Mihov to end the debate. Please vote. Vote 112 MPs: 65, against 38, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u103	Dear Mr. President, I am doing a re-voting procedure, as some Members have not been able to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u104	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Revoting procedure. Please vote on Mr. Mihov's proposal to end the debate. Vote 136 MPs: 92 against 38, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. We will end the debate and move on to voting in art. 6. Firstly, I am voting on the proposal by Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs in the part which has not been adopted by the Commission, namely in this regard. 1 and 2. Please vote. They voted 144 MPs: 49, against 68, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Gechev, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u105	Mr. Chairman, I don't think people understand that this is about checking hundreds of millions of levs that we let private companies use as they want. If we have a face to face with our constituents, I don't know how we're going to explain to them that we're leaving hundreds or billions without...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u106	You're out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u107	I urge you to vote on your conscience.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u108	It's a re-vote. They voted 145 MPs: 57 against 66, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the proposal made by the MP Petar Slavov para. 3 of art. 6, p. 2 to acquire the following form: the companies with 50 and over 50 per cent state and/or municipal participation in the capital. Please vote on the proposal made by the MP Petar Slavov. They voted 145 MPs: 135, against 2, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. And now the final text of art. 6 in the version of the Commission with the newly adopted proposal for editorial change made by the MP Petar Slavov. Please vote. Vote 136 MPs: 104, against 22, abstention 10. Article 6 in the version of the Commission, together with the amendment proposed by Mr. Petar Slavov, has been adopted. Negative vote please, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u109	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman! I voted against it mainly for two reasons, many are the reasons, but I would point out two. The first is that you have limited the powers of the Court of Auditors by referring to its weak capacity and inability to carry out all the activities expected. This argument on the capacity of the Court of Auditors will probably be heard in other texts as well. I think that the only substantial argument in support of capacity can be the Court of Auditors' reporting reports. Let's see how she worked, what she could have done, and what she couldn't do to determine from here on out how to reassign her powers in law. Today we were given the Court of Auditors' report on the second half of 2014. If we look at it, colleagues, with numbers we will see that the 2014 Audit Programme has been expanded with another 161 municipalities, which represents 61% of the municipalities in Bulgaria, that a total of 352 reports on audits and 64 reports on results of control for the implementation of certain priorities have been drawn up. So when you have a program, you have quality professionals and you do your job, you can do a lot. Ms. Stoyanova raised the issue of return on funding, investments in the Court of Auditors. In this Report, there are several concrete examples of returns from her work and from the performance of her duties.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u110	It does not concern the current text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u111	As a result of their work, problems have been identified when spending the means of representative clothing on workers and to us, in the Committee on Labour and Social Policy, a proposal for a change in legislation has been tabled. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u112	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u113	Secondly, their activities in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food are accounted for 29 million. The Ministry of Transport for 29 million has taken action.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u114	Except it has nothing to do with the text, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u115	In this text, you restrict the powers, referring to the lack of capacity and efficiency. Here is proof that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u116	This has nothing to do with your negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u117	Next, I conclude, with this text you have also limited our powers, colleagues. We have made a proposal that reports are being submitted to the National Assembly to be supplemented that we examine them and rule by a decision. You rejected him. So what if reports come in? What are we gonna do with them? Our Rules say that the Commission is ruling, only that you did not allow a text...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u118	Mr. Chairman, this is a follow-up text!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u119	This is on our offer, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u120	You're doing a negative vote under art. Six!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u121	Under art. 6 We have made such proposals, and you rejected them, so I make a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u122	Mrs. Ninova, you're one minute behind schedule. [[Extreme lines by rapporteur Menda Stoyanova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u123	You have also restricted the powers of the MPs by leaving the documents imported from the Court of Auditors into the National Assembly without effect, whatever they may be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Mr. Ermenkov, I hope you have a negative vote on the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I voted against the Commission proposal and this text for one single reason. It relates to the fact that this time we have legalized a saying that everyone knows and which has become proverbial for the Bulgarian people. "There is no forgiveness for a hen, for a million there is no law. This is what you have done together, who voted for the proposal because you have really left billions of levs out of control; because you have given an opportunity for a subjective decision to check this out or not to verify it instead of becoming an obligation; because in my opinion, in this case, you have given a green light to corrupt practices, regardless of the fact that you are struggling with words of transparency and efficiency! And when I talk about efficiency, it cannot be said in any form that the capacity of an administrative control body is the leading in what volume of work to be given to that body. If you make a $100,000 investment. lv. In experts to carry out audits, and these experts are saving you billions, that means that you have made a good decision and introduced the so-called revenue and expenditure demand to the state administration's optimization. So the words "no capacity" are simply hand-washing and once again winding up the fact that you have given a green light to corruption and the opportunity to abuse billions of public money. Taxpayers should sue you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u127	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u128	Here you go, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, I use the possibility of a procedure in the manner of conduct to make a note to you, as you are allowing MPs in a procedure for explaining negative votes to make suggestions not only to the plenary, but also to the media, which reflect the work of the National Assembly on the adoption of the Law on the Court of Auditors. Let us clarify that these negative votes are in relation to the accepted version of art. 6 as regards the scope of the audit work of the Court of Auditors. I do not believe that any of the proposals of the importers adopted by the plenary, and the editorial proposals made, lead to opaque and corrupt practices, as the speaker before me said. Therefore, Mr President, I very much ask that you closely follow the procedures and take the floor in case someone deviates from a different negative vote procedure or when speaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u130	Thank you. Mrs. Stoyanova, we'll continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u131	Under art. 7 supposed by the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 and does not support it by t. 2: "2." In para. 4 the words "the accounts' are replaced by "the accounts' of "the accounts'. "The accounts' are replaced by "the accounts' of "the accounts' of "the accounts' and "the accounts' are replaced The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 7. The audit work programme shall be carried out in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Art. 7. (1) The Court of Auditors shall adopt an annual programme for its audit work. The National Assembly may, by its decision, entrust the Court of Auditors to carry out up to 5 audits per year outside the audit provided for in the annual programme. (2) The Court of Auditors shall adopt the programme under para. 1 after the promulgation of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for the relevant year in the Official Journal of the Republic of Bulgaria, but no later than 31 December of the previous year. (3) The annual audit programme of the Court of Auditors shall be made available to the National Assembly within 7 days of its adoption or amendment. (4) The annual audit work programme of the Court of Auditors in the audit part of the accounts of the European Union shall be sent to the European Court of Auditors and to the European Commission for information.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Statements? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs in the part which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 121 MPs: 33, against 67, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission's version of art. 7. Vote 118 MPs: 87, against 20, abstention 11. Article 7 has been adopted in the version of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u133	Under art. 8 The proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 8, para. 1, t. 1 after the words "the control system' and "the administrative burden of control of the sites in question' is added and the word "the fight' is replaced by "the fight'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 8. "Cooperation with institutions and organizations in the Republic of Bulgaria Art. 8. (1) In carrying out its work, the Court of Auditors shall cooperate with: 1. state bodies to increase the effectiveness of the control system and fight crime and corruption; 2. professional and non-governmental organizations to exchange good practices and professional development. (2) The specific forms of cooperation with the institutions and organizations under para. 1 shall be determined by joint agreements.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u134	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Our proposal is related to the Court of Auditors' main priority to assist in coordinating and coordinating the actions of the various control bodies in order to reduce the control burden, avoid re-imbursing audits and inspections by different control bodies and generate conflicting practices. This will save the State, the state authorities, control bodies, and allow this resource to be used in other priority activities, both with regard to the Court of Auditors and with regard to all other control bodies, precisely that resource for which it was debated and shortly before in the previous text, which is so necessary. I do not know why the text has not been adopted, but I think it is important to write this as the main priority of the Court of Auditors precisely in this new law, as presented as a new law, although, in my opinion, this is contrary to the Law on Legislative Acts and is in no way a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u136	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovalysky. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. We are going to vote on the proposal of MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 113 MPs: 27, against 66, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. We are now moving on to the Commission's version and the vote on art. 8. Please vote. They voted 114 MPs: for 83, against 27, abstention 4. The text of art. 8 in the version of the Commission has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u137	Article 9 and art. Ten by importer. The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for art. Article 9 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u138	Statements? I won't. Vote art. Article 9 10.. by importer. The Commission supports the texts. They voted 115 MPs: 87, against 3, abstention 25. The texts of Articles 9 and 10 by importer have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u139	Under art. 11 The proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: Art. 11 is amended as follows: "Budget" Art. 11 (1) The Court of Auditors shall draw up a draft of its annual budget, which it shall present to the Ministry of Finance for inclusion in the draft State Budget Act for the relevant year. (2) The Court of Auditors shall have an independent budget which shall be part of the state budget. (3) The President of the Court of Auditors shall be the authorising officer with the budget of the Court of Auditors. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u140	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u141	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! The special status of the Court of Auditors, first as a constitutional body, and second as an audit body of the entire public sector, including the National Assembly and the judiciary, is very important. This set-up fully corresponds to the internationally recognised principles of independence of the supreme audit institution announced by the declarations adopted at the Congress of the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions. These declarations are fundamental documents which contain the most important criteria for assessing the independence, objectivity and impartiality of audit institutions. Principle eight of the Mexico Declaration is formulated as follows: "Financial and self-reporting and the existence of appropriate human, material and financial resources. As a manifestation of these principles, the Declaration provides that the executive must not control or manage access to these resources. In addition, the same document requires the supreme audit institutions to manage and allocate their budgets themselves, and gives them the right to address the legislative authority directly. The two documents cited are the basis for internationally recognised audit standards which the Court of Auditors Act must introduce. This is also the criterion on which the independence of each supreme audit institution and the reliability of the results of its activities are assessed internationally, of course. This proposal will make no sense even if we accept it now if it is not further developed in the Public Finance Act. It is in this regard that in the Transitional and Final Provisions we have also made proposals for amendments to the Public Finance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u142	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovalysky. - What's the line? I won't. If you'd like to make a statement, please, Professor. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Not only in my opinion, this is the second key point in the law, because with the majority's proposal in the Budget Committee it practically takes away the budgetary autonomy of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u144	Why are you manipulating?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u145	Let us tell you: it is very strange that the Council of Ministers will control 15 million. The budget of the Court of Auditors is now down to 14 million. Pay attention, $14 million! And hundreds of millions and billions you just voted not to control a great example of how we should not vote on the MPs. Secondly, it has been said and I will stress, and I am finishing the second argument...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If you allow this, we will very soon have to reconsider our decision at the request of the European Court of Auditors and international organisations. Bulgaria will be the first country in the European Union and in the world of audit organisations where you will take away the independence of the Court of Auditors. For what reason, colleagues?! Vote on your conscience! We cannot take the independence of the Court of Auditors precisely, given that we have given the other constitutional authorities this autonomy. Don't break international law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u146	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u147	I want procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u148	I'll give you the floor of procedure later.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u149	My fellow Members, since there have been a lot of untruths here, I would just like to remind you that the Constitution explicitly states which bodies actually have their own budget. These are the budgets of the National Assembly, the judiciary and the municipalities respectively. For reference to the honourable Members who have spoken before me, the article may be used. 62, para. Article 2 (1) (a) 117, para. Article 3; 141, para. 1. In this sense, in practice and in the sense of the provision of the Public Finance Act, it is not pointed out anywhere that the Court of Auditors must have an independent budget. So we are not breaking anything, we are simply following the legal framework and the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u150	- What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova. [[Reply from MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u151	Dear Mrs. Yordanova, I'd like to make a line for you. You missed another important argument. Indeed, only these three bodies are mentioned in the Constitution as separate budgets, but at the same time, unlike other bodies, the Constitution has arranged for the Court of Auditors. The Constitution contains the Court of Auditors. and in art. 91 which governs the existence, the function of the Court of Auditors, should also have a text for an independent budget if the Constitution intended to have one. Moreover, the last amendment to the Constitution was made 2007, honourable gentlemen on the left when you ruled. And then, when the National Assembly gained independence on its budget, the Court of Auditors could also have arranged because it is the other body governed by the Constitution. This is our motive for the Court of Auditors not to have an independent budget, but to have a budget which is an independent part of the state budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. - What's the line? Mrs. Manolova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u153	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Yordanova! In addition to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, which must comply with all laws, Bulgaria must also comply with a number of international treaties which are binding in nature. In this case, the independent budget of the Court of Auditors is set out in the Mexico Declaration, which clearly states that the Court of Auditors must plan its own financial resources. But this is about something else. It is because once again the GERB Parliamentary Group is trying to limit the independence of the Court of Auditors, that it is trying to subdue it to the executive that will plan its resources. This is one of the mechanisms through which GERB transforms the Court of Auditors into a servant because when you control the resources at which the state's supreme audit authority will have it, it means practically to leave it on its knees. It is clear how GERB agrees with the state budget that the decisive word is the Minister of Finance, which means that both the Minister of Finance and his ministry will be absolutely excluded from the objective financial audit which should be carried out by the Court of Auditors. This is a legal step taken by GERB to turn the Court of Auditors into a servant of the quadruple coalition. That's it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Third line? I won't. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. She's right, Mrs. Stoyanova. Yeah, that's how the statement was good in that direction, too. However, I would like to say here, I have a feeling that Mrs. Manolova is generally using the cop-past statements from previous debates. [[Applause from GERB.]] I'm sorry that I didn't pull out the shorthand during the debates of the Forty-first National Assembly, because here again we hear common tracts, servants and so on. Things that we are hearing, unfortunately, from the current President of the Court of Auditors, which means that obviously the supporting points are written somewhere in the same place and are simply distributed and sent out. Colleagues, since this debate needs to be stopped, I would like to quote Art. 5, para. 4 of the Constitution, which says: The international treaties ratified by constitutional order, promulgated and entered into force for the Republic of Bulgaria are part of the domestic law of the country. They have an advantage over those domestic legislation that they are in favour of. Since, Mrs. Manolova, you are a good lawyer, I think there is no need to interpret this legal norm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u157	I want a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u158	Are there any other speeches? There are no other speeches. We're closing the debate. Do you care about the procedure, unless it's in the manner of conduct, of course?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u159	No. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u160	Let's move on to the vote. First, we vote on the proposal of MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 123 MPs: 32, against 69, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to vote on the text of the importer for art. 11, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 89, against 18, abstention 7. The text of art. 11 by importer accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u161	Chapter 3 "Structural, Management and Organization." The Commission supports the name of Chapter Three.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u162	We vote on the name of Chapter Three. They voted 105 MPs: 88, against 2, abstention 15. The name of Chapter 3 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u163	Under art. 12 has a proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal, namely: Article 12 is amended as follows: The Court of Auditors shall act in accordance with its rules of procedure Art. 12 (1) The Court of Auditors shall be a collective body comprising 9 members, including a Chair. The President and the Members shall be elected and released by the National Assembly for a period of 7 years. (2) The President shall not be re-elected. Proposal of the MP Nayden Zelenogorski and group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the importer's proposal and propose the following version of art. 12: Art. 12. (1) The Court of Auditors shall consist of a President, two Vice-Presidents and two Members elected by the National Assembly. (2) The President, Vice-Presidents and Members shall be elected for a period of 7 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u164	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u165	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposed text by the Commission actually excludes the possibility of taking decisions in the composition of the Court of Auditors through a collective body. I think that this should not be assumed that the current law in the part of the Court of Justice must be supported by the editorials that we have proposed, reminding you of a fact from the period in which the Court of Auditors was led by one person and the decisions were taken by a single President. I will remind you of the disturbing findings that were made in the Forty-second National Assembly. The example is this. At the beginning of the work of the Forty-second National Assembly in the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order of the National Assembly was examined the audit of the Court of Auditors in the Ministry of Interior for the period from 1 January 2010 to 31 May 2013. It became clear that no full audit of the secondary authorising officers was carried out, as well as of the companies under the hat of the Ministry of Interior, BMW and "Frontex." This does not exclude the hypothesis of both circumvention of the Public Procurement Act through these companies and the ban on donations of the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u166	What does that have to do with the text?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u167	Don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u168	Why am I giving you this example? Take note from the report itself that in the event of infringements or omissions in 85% of the public contracts examined, there is no act of administrative infringement drawn up. The explanation of minority is not serious. It was taken by the President as sole decisive. The statement that the Minister of Interior is excluded from the scope of the acts of administrative infringement issued, although the delegation of powers does not grant him discharge. This is again the decision of the President-in-Office at the time. The extended period for objections to the report is also worrying. It is disturbing that there is a gap between the preliminary and the final report, which is at the request of the Minister-in-Office for the period under review. All this despite the high interest in the management of the Ministry of Interior in this period.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u169	Very interesting! A lot!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u170	You understand that when you change not to have a collective solution, a single solution to such cases leads to distortions. And why are you restoring everything that is a matter of months, given your governance as coming months and will once again have to be viewed by parliament and wasted its time? [[Replications of MPs Tsvetomir Mihov and Desislava Atanasova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u171	Are there any lines? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u172	Mr. Tsonev has declared a wish to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u173	Madam President, honourable Members! Article 12 is, in fact, the core of the amendment to this Law on the Court of Auditors. Although it is new, it repeats to a large extent the percentage of the old law, as well as the previous one repeating the previous one. Third consecutive members of the National Assembly are playing no good games with the country's independent chief audit authority, which cannot fail to have an impact on the entire financial system of the country. I want it to be clear that here we include ourselves in this bad tradition, which the third National Assembly has in a row. I think it was the right thing to end it. I also believe that the proposed texts do not categorically put an end to this unpleasant game with the Court of Auditors' device and its work. The main objective is to change the composition of the Court of Auditors. The proposals adopted in the course of the procedure for the adoption of this law make the Court of Auditors from the initial intention.. one President and two Vice-Presidents, with the new two members to be proposed by the two professional organisations. This is a shy recognition that the Court of Auditors as a collective body, such as a college, is the better development option for Bulgaria. This is indeed true and is a step forward, evolution in understanding the ruling majority and, in particular, colleagues from GERB, some of which are very good specialists in this area. The model you are proposing, however, is not complete. I must tell you that most likely in one of the next possible configurations of power we will propose completing this model in view of all the negative experience we have so far. With a broader discussion and especially us, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we will insist that the collective model of the Court of Auditors, such as the College, be restored in full. I can make a commitment that if this is done, it will not be by changing those who will be elected now to make it clear that no changes are made if such changes are made in order to change the Chambers of the Court of Auditors. Of course, those you choose must be professionals and behave professionally and independently. Two additional members are already making the Court of Auditors, but I believe that the model on which they will work rather than the model on which they will be offered and chosen is not appropriate. They had to work at the Court of Auditors, they had to be members of the Court of Auditors. That they will be offered by two independent professional organisations is well agreed with that, and I also said it during the debate in the Commission. We have a step forward towards bringing all of us together around a lasting model, which is also a constitutionally responsible collective body, a college, but I think it is insufficient. I think this model will undergo more changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u174	First line, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u175	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. You attended the debate in the Budget Committee and you see that, in fact, as a result of the debate, this version of a model was also found. I understand that you generally support two members who will be proposed by professional organisations, which guarantees a professional external view of the work of the entire Chamber. I know your argument from the Commission debate that you would like these two members to be vice-presidents, to have portfolios like the rest of them. I just want to remind you that further in the texts you will see that we are actually regulating the existence of four specialized audit directorates on types of audits that have professional managers, directors with high requirements for their professional experience, knowledge and so on. In this way, the areas of audit work are guaranteed professionally. Members do not need to be responsible for these directions. The fact that the reports that will be imported by these directors and will be considered, including with this external professional view of these two members, in fact also ensures that they are controlled to carry out their activities really according to international standards, according to the methodology which the Court of Auditors itself has worked and used. I think this is a sufficient guarantee for society that there will be no solutions that contradict good professional practices. I do not understand why you continue to insist that the members of the Court of Auditors have reservations on the types of audits, as it is more appropriate for me to have heads of the directorates in question prepared to have these portfolios.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u176	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u177	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Tsonev, it's not exactly a line to your speech, it's an agreement, but I just wanted to say that in...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u178	If it's not a line, I'll take your word for it. Do you want to replicate?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u179	Yeah, I'm replicating it. In the course of the debates in the Budget Committee we have also come to this, and this is a positive direction. You know, the debates in the previous National Assembly were quite sharp when this law was changed. What's happening right now, I think that's what we wanted before professionalism, and a professional start. I see you agree. We've taken some kind of direction. The fact that it can then be further developed will show time. I think that right now what we have agreed is the place where we speak professionally in the Budget Committee and make the professional proposals that we are debating there. I think that in the National Assembly they are already adopted by a very broad majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u180	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Third line? I won't. Now you have an opportunity for an asshole, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u181	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mrs. Stoyanova, I don't seem to have made myself clear because I don't suppose you've misunderstood me. The argument these two additional members of the College to have portfolios is not so significant, the other argument is that they work there. To be elected and to work only there. Otherwise they could be in conflict of interest and you know it well. Imagine that two representatives of the two professional organizations of the auditors send two people on a fee in the school so we have recorded it, will receive a fee, which implies that they will work their main job elsewhere. They will audit, approve audits at the Court of Auditors as members of the College and will work elsewhere. My main argument was: those who are members of the College, i.e. the Court, work only there and only that or teaching work, as well as the President and his alternates. This is a very important argument and I ask you to pay attention to this. That's not some little administrative detail. And whether the four members outside the President will be responsible for the directorate or not is a discussion matter. They may not answer. They may only be members of the College who examine audits, approve them or do not approve them, make observations or not, and the directors of directorates shall lead the professional part which shall draw up the audits and submit them to the college. Whether or not they will work there, however, is not a matter of secondary administrative importance. It's top priority! Therefore, once again, I insist that you take this argument into account.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u182	To speak, Mrs. Maya Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u183	My fellow Members, Mr President, I would agree with those who have spoken before me that this is the most important text of the legislation tabled. In the development of the wording of this text in practice we also see the genesis of this government. It is clear that this is the text that will persecute the current Court of Auditors, will fire it and will appoint another body for which I will not use the word "service" to not annoy Mrs. Stoyanova, I will say service staff.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u184	And not to make a comment, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u185	Yes, and in order not to make a comment, I would say service staff to the new quadruple coalition. Let's see how this text changed in the discussions after the introduction of this law. Firstly, the motives of the new law said that we were going back to the old model, namely the Court of Auditors to become a single body. Then, in the text of the law, we saw that this single body is actually the chairman and two vice-presidents. That is, the unitary body has already become one small, tight, neat College of three members. Now that the debates have really been heightened and the quadruple coalition has become clear that it also needs additional support for the adoption of these texts, suddenly the College has become of five members. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the model of the Court of Auditors we will see the model of today's power. By who are the members of the Court of Auditors you will guess who is in charge of us. I say that at the moment the coalition is not only from the officially announced quadruple coalition, but that we are governed by Coalition 4 plus, and in the fifth member of the Court of Auditors in question, which, according to GERB, is always the most important authority of the state, we will see who is the supporting fifth member. I'm saying all this because of the fact that the debates were really sharp. GERB were very inflexible, but at a good time it turned out that, in order for the current Court of Auditors to be liquidated, further support would be needed. By listening to the consensus tone in this House, it is evident that such support is provided and, obviously, in whom they are approached, to whom the five members of the Court of Auditors are related, it will become clear what is the exact configuration of our ruling coalition today. I do not intend to say this today from the parliamentary platform, but I promise when we elect the four members and the President of the Court of Auditors, with the MPs from the Coalition BSP left Bulgaria to say exactly which political power stands behind us and ultimately who governs us today. Or in other words: you will recognize them by the Court of Auditors. This is coming. [[Noise, lines, cheering.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u186	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u187	Dear Madam President, dear Mrs Manolova, honourable Members! I did not understand why in this law the question of composition is the most important. Why? Why is it the most important? Although it is not exactly in the provision that you are quoting, I do not know why you ignore the fact that two members will be broadcast in a certain order by professional auditors' organisations?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u188	Second line: Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u189	Mrs. Manolova, I know that when you speak from this tribune, you always rely on your previous rich experience. So perhaps now in this statement. Indeed, in the 9-member Chamber, we could understand and recognize who is in charge and who is in your previous majority. Dear Mrs. Manolova, just to avoid such manipulative accusations as you make here that it is a matter of party quota allocation, we have asked those two members who will participate as an external professional view, supervision, as you would like to call it, on the work of the entire Chamber, to be broadcast by the relevant professional organisations. These are the two professional organisations related to the audit work. If you believe that the ruling majority has now mastered or can manipulate these organisations, I think that this is more true of your experience in your management, but we neither control nor will manipulate these organisations. This is the guarantee that is given in the law, namely for the independence of this Court of Auditors. In the previous Parliament, you were the head of the Committee on Civil Society and relations with NGOs. This is a law text in force that guarantees the participation of professional NGOs in the government, not just in some committees of fairy tales here in the National Assembly, or only on their proposals in bills, but their real participation in the management and especially of this supreme audit institution.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u190	The third line is Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u191	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Manolova, you have concluded your statement with a question.. We will find out who is ruling us today. Have you not yet understood last year who the Bulgarian voters gave the vote to govern? I'll tell you who's not running us today. We are not governed by those who, for the short term, ruled for a year when this National Assembly was surrounded by protesters, with police when it could not pass freely. These don't rule us, Mrs. Manolova. [[Woman cheering from GERB.]] We are not governed by those during which, dear Mrs. Manolova, although for about a year the EU funds that led Bulgaria to a financial crisis have stopped. They do not govern us, for the joy of the Bulgarian voters. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u192	A hole, Mrs. Manolova. [[National Representative Tasco Ermenkov wants the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.]] Mr. Ermenkov, read this rule book! Read this rule book! We can't interrupt the procedure for lines and dots. Then I'll give you an opportunity for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u193	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kirilov, why do I claim that this is the main text of the bill submitted by GERB? Because nothing in audit work is essentially changing. It is reduced, the scope of the audited entities is reduced. In other words, a large part of the entities that are otherwise subject to audit will now not be checked.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... lv.; European funds will not be audited in the real sense of this concept and the composition of the Court of Auditors shall be replaced. Nothing else changes. Why do I say that there is a development here in the ruling coalition and its supporting formations? Excuse me, you claimed that the existence of a college is a form of collective irresponsibility..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Quote! Now all of a sudden, it turns out that it will be a college body and will be practically by five members of the ruling coalition plus additional support. So I say, let's see the members, and then we'll say who's really controlling us. As for pseudo-procedures for participation of civil organisations, this is the next text 14. I will just say that one of the organisations that proposes a member of the Court of Auditors is a subsidiary of an international institute registered in the United States. In other words, the United States International Institute will appoint one of the members of the Court of Auditors. We'll talk about that a little later. With regard to Mr. Lazarov's free exercises about who runs us, we will really understand him. One way is the composition of the Court of Auditors. Yes, those who were around parliament, some of them are already in parliament, and that is why the outrage they are involved in, including the raging of the Court of Auditors, does not impress them. That is to say, it is important for them, if power does outrageous things, which authority does them. When they do the same outrage, there is no problem for them. But this is another conversation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u194	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Mr. Ermenkov, the procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u195	Madam President, honourable Members, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, because the debate is already sufficiently charged with tension and has its professional opinions from the left, from the right, from the centre. When someone here comes out to speak and take lines in which he never mentions the problem we are discussing, he makes reminiscs on the past that have no bearing on the Law on the Court of Auditors, very please stop it because it creates unnecessary tensions, sharpens the environment and professionalism goes somewhere in politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u196	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Colleagues, there are more requests to make a statement. According to their statement: Mr. Martin Dimitrov, after him Mr. Lutvi Mestan, I see Mr. Gorov. 30-minute break. We'll continue at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u197	I ask the MPs to take their seats. There is a debate on the second reading under art. 12 of the first voting draft for the Court of Auditors. Mr. Martin Dimitrov is fine for a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u198	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! In the debate so far, colleagues have said that there are almost no significant changes in this bill and almost the only goal was to choose a new management of the Court of Auditors. In fact, a very, very substantial change is being made, which has a chance to improve the work of this control body and other control bodies, if applied in the same way, namely all decisions of management to be public, it is clear who, how he voted. I give you the following example: The Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors did not revoke the license of a company that audited CCB, and the President came out and explicitly said that he voted for the withdrawal of this licence. The Bulgarian journalists persistently asked the other members who voted against it so that the license would not be revoked and none admitted that they had voted in this way. They hid behind the Law, each of the members of this Commission found a way and hid behind the Law. What do we offer now? We say that, from now on, in the Court of Auditors, each decision will be able to be examined individually for each President, Vice-President or member of the five-year college, how he voted on each issue. This should be applied, colleagues, not just here. This should become a way of working for this National Assembly if we are trying to reform Bulgaria and make these control bodies more responsible and accountable. Why, for example, honourable Members, for each of you years back can you check what opinion and how you have taken it, and for the control bodies it should be a secret and representatives of such control bodies do not respond to what position they have taken? The other very important issue is that a decision in this college body will require four out of five votes, which means that this leadership will have to work as a team and be responsible as a team. Firstly, it will be clear who voted for each decision, secondly, it will be responsible as a team for all decisions taken by the Court of Auditors. The presence of two representatives of the professional organizations I admit to you that I initially looked at this idea with some reservations, but subsequently after long analyses and consultations by the Reformation Block Group, we concluded that this is a good thing, within the management of the Court of Auditors, civil control is being put into place. Citizen control within its management is being broadcast by professional organizations, that is, this internal civil control is happening for the first time, and that is something good that I hope will work and if it works, it can be applied to other control bodies in the same way. Professionals will be elected as part of the management of the Court of Auditors, will be able to participate in the decision-making process and vote including. Without their two votes, notice, colleagues, a decision will not be made in practice. In other words, they, the citizens of the professional guilds, will actually have something like a blocking quota if they decide not to support a decision that is another key point that deserves support. All of this taken together, honourable Members, are strong enough arguments here only on the texts that we will now vote on to support this Law, to receive serious support from the National Assembly, because these are reforms that can change Bulgaria and make this control institution radically different, much more working, much more transparent, much more responsible, in fact to avoid the greatest weakness of many control mechanisms in Bulgaria without personal responsibility. This is the biggest weakness of many control systems in Bulgaria "There is no personal responsibility and you cannot trace who has done what, who has voted, not being able to ask the media why they took a position, why they voted in a certain way, why they supported or did not support a decision. All these arguments lead us to support these texts, which are indeed reformatory and which will lead to better work by the Court of Auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u199	- What's the line? First line - Mrs. Stoyanova, second line - Mrs. Manolova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u200	I'm taking a line to make a correction in your speech. When you were talking about the Committee for Supervision of Registered Auditors, you gave an example of the fact that there the suspension of a two-year license is taken by a majority of four people, too, but secretly. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in addition to Mrs. Doneva, who immediately after the vote said her vote, there is another member of this Commission, who publicly declared this vote, you simply missed it. He has also voted to revoke the license of the enterprise "K.P.M.G." and to each of the two responsible auditors who have certified the accounts of KTB. This is exactly Mr. Milev, who was proposed and chosen by us, by the IDES Institute of Expert Accountants. Here is an addition, proof of your words, that truly professionally broadcast personalities, because they are personalities when they are professionals of this level, can stand in their serious professional position. The other members there are broadcast by state authorities, to call them BNB is one, the Ministry of Finance the other. So for me, the more we go to the professional guilds in one area or another, we will not be wrong, because the people who will be broadcast will be high professionals, and for this reason they will be individuals who will have the burden of taking responsibility for their own decision and standing behind it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u201	Second line, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u202	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I understand your inconvenience from the shameful deal you include in the quadruple coalition plus your attempt to answer specific questions related to this text, and here the specific question is one and you owe an answer to this question: will there be a representative of the Reformation bloc in the new Chamber of the Court of Auditors? [[Noise and lines on the right.]] Answer me! It is clear that we are about having a personal responsibility, a specific responsibility for the votes, we are going to support these texts, but they are not at all subject to discussion in this text. What kind of transparency are you talking about?! For what transparency, since in practice this Law reduces the circle of audited entities? What independence are you talking about, since the executive will set the Court of Auditors' budget? The issue here is one, and I think that you, as a representative of those who protested on the street against party appointments, will you answer: will the Reformation bloc have its representative in the Court of Auditors? Remember that very soon there will be a choice and then, if you allow yourself to lie, you will be exposed. About civilian control. The declarative, imperative indication by two organisations of the members of the Court of Auditors is not civil control. Moreover, one of them is a subsidiary of an international organization located in the United States of America. Should I assume that given your relationship with a number of American foundations, the representative of the Reformation Bloc will be broadcast through this organization?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u203	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u204	Dear colleagues, I fully understand Mrs. Manolova's concern because they did not appoint Stanishev an advisor and are now worried that this practice will be continued by the current government. [[Radio.]] We advisors to Mr. Borisov or Mr. Radan Kanev in the management of the Court of Auditors will not propose, Mrs. Manolova. We're not gonna do what you do. Don't worry. We do not like your example, and for this reason we will not follow it, so you can be completely calm. Mrs. Stoyanova, regarding your question. We cannot rely on the members of these authorities' leadership to have the valor to come out and say how they voted. This change we're making now, which is a huge change. We do not rely on the morality of individual people.. the President, the Vice-Presidents or the members of the management of the Court of Auditors themselves to state how they voted. We say that any such decision, the protocol of it, is uploaded to the Court of Auditors' website. We introduce regular control and we will not rely on the valor of one or two people to say how they voted and what position they have taken.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u205	With motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u206	Along with the motives, that is, if someone voted against, their motives would become public. Any journalist or any one of us will be able to read them and ask a question to these people why they chose one position or another. This change is very important, huge, it is a change to individual responsibility, to accountability in the work of these bodies. This cannot not be supported. Whoever doesn't support it actually wants the old model in which five out of nine can make a decision, but no one knows who the five are and no one knows why they made a decision. This transparency, accountability and individual responsibility that we are now introducing are extremely important and will radically change the work of the Court of Auditors, will improve the entire decision-making process. Finally, I want to say the following thing. I completely understand Mrs. Manolova. After all these years when she and her party have dealt with production and proposals, she can no longer come out of this framework. He can't even assume that someone else might want to offer professionals that there will be a hearing in the Chamber that people will be proposed outside of the Chamber to call it the next party councillors. She can't even allow it, and for that reason her concern now is that by not being in power, being opposition, someone else, and not them this time, will be doing it the usual way. This party cadre must stop and be changed once and for all! Only professionals may be appointed to such control bodies. That is why the current majority of Mrs. Manolova introduced the procedure for a public hearing in plenary, so that every candidate has to answer questions, to present himself, to present his concept and not the close advisors to the specific authority to be quickly elected in a guide which, unfortunately, is not a good attestation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u207	Mr. Merdjanov's procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u208	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, the MPs voted with a huge majority this morning for admission to the Chamber of the President of the Court of Auditors, Mrs. Lydia Rumenova. She's been wanting to take the floor for about an hour. Please give her the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u209	She spoke half an hour ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u210	Please accept that we are at second reading, Mr. Merdjanov. Members of the National Assembly wishing to participate in the debate shall, in any event, take precedence over the guests admitted to the Chamber. Mr. Mestan, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u211	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Undoubtedly, debates on whether the Court of Auditors should be a single or a collegiate body are very important. Debates are also extremely important for transparency, whether the principle of accessibility of the minutes of the Court of Auditors' meetings, which is valid today, for anyone who would like to get acquainted with these protocols, is not better to replace them with an obligation to upload them to the website. However, I would like to draw attention to another, in my opinion, a fundamentally important issue relating to art. 12. That's all I took the floor for. This is the question of whether we are aware of the role of the constitutional figure of mandate, ladies and gentlemen. In 2009 GERB took a heavy political responsibility to create a terrible precedent to interrupt the term of a elected body. Last year we did the same, probably driven by the motive to restore at least that was the motive of colleagues, the principle, only that we did it again with the termination of a mandate of your elected members of the Court of Auditors. How long is the big question?! Will we get to the absurdity of being more honest with the Bulgarian citizens, in this law we simply write that the term of office of the Court of Auditors coincides with the term of office of the National Assembly which elects it? Is that what you want?! We're totally against it. The purpose of the mandate is another one in the time gap between the mandate of the body choosing another body in order to ensure its political independence so that we do not witness ugly phenomena, as President of the Court of Auditors, the audit authority agrees with the audited content of the reports, because we have also seen such ugly phenomena. Therefore, the question is: will we raise within us a culture of respect for the mandate as a safeguard mechanism of democracy itself? I think 2009 was the serious deviation from that principle. Today, this policy continues no matter what other beautiful arguments you will put on it. Therefore, we will not support the amendment. Thank you. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u212	- What's the line? Mrs. Desislava Atanasova, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u213	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Mestan, a different look, a different focus on the subject we are discussing. For the culture of mandate, you probably should have put the issue not at today's plenary session, but rather plenary sessions, more than a year ago, when we discussed the mandate of the governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. Let me tell you that regarding that mandate, there is a ruling of the Constitutional Court, so don't worry about it. Just maybe your fellow lawyers should help you understand the mandate and understanding of the cultural attitude towards the authorities and institutions of the state authorities in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u214	Second line, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u215	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Mestan, I'm taking this opportunity to say a line, grasping at what you've said, and the term agrees. The previous term clearly states that it is not a matter of coordination but of amending a preliminary report following an objection to the subject of the audit. It concerns the audit of the Ministry of Interior for the period from 1 January 2010 to 31 May 2013. And this finding has a number of other serious findings regarding the final audit. What you are saying is incorrect. Reports were replaced because of the will of the one audited. And that is what we are about to see, in my opinion, after the change of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u216	Third line, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u217	Dear Mr. Mestan, perhaps I wouldn't have made a line, but it is still to you because you raised this subject if I hadn't heard the colleague's speech. But you brought it up anyway. A change in the report after the statement of opposition, the law allows the person to be given the opportunity to take an opinion or the legal organisation to comply with that opinion or not. I'm sure you don't want to take us back to the times when some bodies were the last instance and no one had the right to object, let alone to the opinion or opinion of groups of individuals and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u218	A hole, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u219	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lazarov, one is the right to object, which hardly anyone will dispute, another is the one to whom the opposition has been sent, then to ask: Is it so good? Excuse me, let's get serious! Is that okay? So do you agree to write it down? Excuse me, but your line is very useful because such vicious phenomena have only if we do not respect the principle of mandate, if one body will not audit after a time and those who, for example, are already in opposition or are once again ruling. That's the problem. I think that's how I answered Mr. Iankov. As for Mrs. Atanasova's line, I am a modest enough person, and when I lack competence, I really consult experts, smarter people than me in one area or another. Owned for this article. 12 I did these consultations and I will tell you that the decision of that Constitutional Court was because of the change of model. But my call for a culture of mandate is not to look for artificial grounds for termination of mandate, to truly respect this principle. In any case, the Constitutional Court then said it was admissible because of the change of model from collegial to individual sole body. Now we have a collegial body. You keep it in this law, there's no changing the pattern. Then on what grounds do you terminate the term of office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u220	Any other MPs? Mr. Gorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u221	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! After all, it turned out to be true that this is the point of the points and, more precisely, the member of the articles in this law. [[Radio.]] And as much as some of the colleagues may see that major changes are being made, giving the names of the people who voted in the Court of Auditors the opportunity to see and how they voted is a great achievement and a great result of this law, I think it is not quite the scale of this change. It is obvious that this is precisely the case of this article. 12 in the Law on the Court of Auditors. If, at the beginning of the debate, however, at first reading, there was any point in this debate because we were talking about two different models, the collegiate and sole way of managing the Court of Auditors, then today, this debate, in my opinion, is largely meaningless. It is obvious that the importers between first and second reading have walked their way and have come to our conclusion that the college management model of the House as a management model of the Court of Auditors is the better option. And in this situation, practically the meaning of the debate was lost in general about the changes in the law. It's obvious he's already walked this way. For me, however, there are a few disturbing elements left. The message here is made clear that it is not about anything else but only the composition of the Court of Auditors. However, with regard to the two external representatives, on the one hand, it is good to have representatives of the civil sector and of people who are not related to the Court of Auditors. I do not wish to discuss the professionalism of those elected to the Court of Auditors. The criteria laid down for representatives in the Court of Auditors are sufficiently high and hardly that they belong to one or another non-governmental organisation is a criterion for their professionalism and their qualities. However, it is embarrassing that one of the organisations that will practically propose a member in the management of the Court of Auditors is one subsidiary of an international organisation which is practically distributed in another country, not even a member of the European Union. From this point of view, there are certain disturbances in my view, and it should be considered very carefully by colleagues. It should be reconsidered even in this debate right now. As for the second organization, the Institute of Graduated Accountants, for me comes up a question: is there not a person proposed by this organization to go largely into conflict of interest, going to audit an institution or some state-owned company with more than 50% state participation, if another colleague of his has certified the report of this company only a period of time ago and these people are in some kind of relationship in this organization? From this point of view, I think that we can fall here in certain cases to cover up poorly certified audit reports by accountants because this will ultimately lead to abuse of state funds. And this is a great danger that stands before us today. It is for this reason that, on the one hand, the visible political element, the party's moment to change the composition of the Court of Auditors, and those dangers to those two external representatives who will not actually be constantly working in the Court of Auditors, but will be people who will be, in one way or another, be sponsored and participate only in the process of making the final decision of the Court of Auditors' management body, that I think we will have serious problems with the future functioning of the Court of Auditors, which, of course, is also an element of the responsibility that you would bear in voting on this proposal. With these motives, we will not support this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u222	- What's the line? Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u223	Dear Mr. Gorov, I will give you a line only in one part of your speech. I won't comment on political talk. With regard to the fact that those members, who will be broadcast by the two professional organisations, may become in conflict of interest, the Law has given a guarantee that they must comply with the requirements of the Law on Conflict of Interest and react accordingly if they are in a situation in which they are in conflict of interest under this law. There's no danger of that happening. They won't audit. I suppose that was a lapsus in your statement. The fact that they could participate in decision-making decisions on reports in companies audited by their colleagues is not a conflict of interest. And I will give you proof of this again with the Committee for Supervision of Registered Auditors, which soon had a case regarding the license of one company and both auditors who certified the CCB report. Two of the members of this committee are colleagues of one of the auditors at the Institute for World Economy. And these two members specifically asked if they had a conflict of interest, considering the activities of their colleague in the department. And they have an answer from the Commission for conflict of interest that they do not have such a conflict of interest. Everyone in this country is a colleague, a friend, a drinker or a neighbor with someone else. This does not necessarily mean that he is in conflict of interest in a situation where the other one is involved.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u224	Second line? A hole, Mr. Gorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u225	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Somehow we came to the conclusion of Mr. Kostov that in Bulgaria they are all cousins. It wasn't exactly that terminology that was used, but somehow the summation was in that direction, which of course there must be some kind of truth. I am aware that the representatives themselves will not participate in the audit process, most likely a language error, but will participate in the decision-making process on these reports. They will be the people who will decide on the final result, which is realized on the basis of the audit. From this point of view, I am firmly convinced that they will have an important burden on the outcome. As for whether they are in conflict of interest within the meaning of the Law on Conflict of Interest, they are not. Our task is to prevent those people who will be involved in the management of the Court of Auditors from being tempted by the idea of friends, relatives, colleagues to provide assistance or assistance in one situation or another. It is for this reason that I say that, under the Law of Conflict of Interest itself, they are not in conflict of interest, but for me there remains the doubt that they would influence their opinion under the influence of some of their relatives and colleagues. I can also give other examples of how an auditor in one bank had indicated who the auditor would be and how two auditors would scroll one after another for a long period of time. The final result of the functioning of this bank was several billion losses for Bulgaria! From this point of view, we are not protected from other such actions or situations. The role of the National Assembly is, in my opinion, to make it possible to avoid such a danger. In this situation, I think my arguments and concerns are justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u226	Thank you, Mr. Gorov. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] What do you want? Procedure? The way you're leading it? You have the floor. More clearly, my colleagues, I don't understand what you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u227	Thank you, Madam President. I'm sorry I didn't make my wish for a procedure clear. Madam President, I propose that we put an end to the debate, as this dispute was only waged a few months ago when the number of members of the Court of Auditors was increased by the governing body. Then we remember how the debate took place.. there were no arguments from the government, as they are currently trying to convince us of the rightness of the changes made by them a year ago. I believe that the Court of Auditors has proved that it can work with three members of the Governing Council. Now there are two more available, so the composition will expand. But let's end this debate because it's being led, and there's no point in wasting parliamentary time telling each other things that we've been talking about very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u228	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal to put an end to the debates under art. 12. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] If you tell me on what basis of the Rules of Procedure I can give her the floor. We're at second reading. Make a reference. No questions asked to her. On the proposals made between the first and second votes, only MPs can comment in the Chamber. Make a reference to the Rules of Procedure. I met him very carefully. [[Audience in BSP LB.]] We are voting on the procedural proposal. They voted 101 MPs: 79, against 18, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Debates closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Rumen Gechev, Cornelia Nino, Petar Kanev, Chavdar Georgiev, Filip Popov, Maya Manolova, Dimitar Gorov, Georgi Tarnovalyski and Atanas Merdjanov. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 111 MPs: 21, against 76, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. There are several withdrawn proposals. We are now voting on the Commission's proposal to amend art. 12, by the name of this Article, the Statute of the Court of Auditors, as on the Commission's report. They voted 115 MPs: 91, against 22, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Mr. Tarnovalysky's first negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u229	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I voted against it because the easiest way to prevent an institution from working effectively, to carry out its functions by law is by changing the law to six months and by restructuring at six months.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u230	Why did you change it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u231	You sound like that song my law is better than yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u232	There's no song like that!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u233	Does that make sense? Is this supposed to be the attitude towards such an important topic as the one for the Court of Auditors? This shows what your attitude is about this so important subject. What happened last year is not important at the moment. [[Laughter at GERB.]] What matters today is what you will do, how today you agreed to distribute what you reacted to last year! Because the little college, which you say you want to do, creates conditions for pressure and interference in the work of the Court of Auditors. The proposed model, even with two members, will be making inadequate and uninformed decisions that can lead to very severe consequences for the control of the entire public sector The adoption of decisions in the area of audit powers will become fully formal and without any deepening of the substance as clearly your objective is. We can give an example here with the three conflicting orders for the same audit within less than one month for Aviation Unit 28. [[(Comments from GERB: The Search! Time!]] The two deputies who will lead the entire audit work...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u234	The weather, Mr. Turnover!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u235	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u236	Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]] Anyone else for a negative vote? I won't. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in. 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u237	Under art. 13 The proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: "1." The text of art. 13 is amended as follows: "Reward of the President and Members Art. 13. (1) The President shall receive a basic monthly remuneration of 90 per cent of the remuneration of the President of the National Assembly. (2) Members shall receive a basic monthly remuneration of 90 per cent of the remuneration of the President. 2. Systematic art. Art. 13 to become Art. 16................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u238	Statements? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposal of MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. 100 MPs voted: 21, against 65, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to vote on the text of the importer for art. 13. Please vote. Voted 103 MPs: 80, against 21, abstention 2. The importer's proposal for art. 13 is accepted. Continue, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u239	Under art. 14 The proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14. Let me read the unsupported proposal, Mr. Chairman: "1." Art. 14 is amended as follows: The Court of Auditors shall have the power to adopt delegated acts in Art. 14. (1) Members shall be elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President under the order of art. 14. (2) Members may be re-elected. 2. Systematic art. Art. 14 to become Art. 17................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u240	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Please vote. Vote 95 MPs: 16, against 64, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to vote on the text of the importer for art. 14, supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 105 MPs: 85, against 17, abstention 3. The importer's proposal for art. 14 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u241	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 15: ....................................... Art. 15. (1) The National Assembly shall elect, on a proposal from the President of the Court of Auditors, one member proposed by the Institute of Graduated Accountants and one member proposed by the Institute of Internal Auditors. (2) The members of the Court of Auditors shall receive remuneration for participation in a meeting of the Court of Auditors, as determined by the Rules of Procedure and the organisation of the activities of the Court of Auditors. The monthly remuneration shall not exceed 50 per cent of the President's basic monthly remuneration.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u242	Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u243	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! The only qualification of this text can be as follows that this is an insolent, lobbying text that enables an organization, such as the Institute of Internal Auditors in Bulgaria, the same branch of an international organization based in the United States, to identify one of the most important audit institutions in Bulgaria. Releasing powers and functions that are part of our national interests is more than worrying to international organisations, especially when it is done in such an important law. I pay attention to one of the parties in the ruling quadruple coalition, and I wonder what other compromises they can make by giving powers to organisations based in the United States of America. What's more, the members... [[Noise and lines.]] See the exact meaning of the text! This organisation, together with the Institute of Internal Auditors, proposes to the President of the Court of Auditors a member and the President of the Court of Auditors communicates it to the Bulgarian National Assembly, i.e. we are not in the constitutional hypothesis in which the National Assembly elects the Court of Auditors. We will be faced with the situation to confirm the offer of the subsidiary of an international organisation that is registered in Florida, the United States. Indeed, an intriguing structure that has nothing to do with civil control over the activities of public authorities! Because, sorry, the point of civil control is publicity and transparency how proposals are made, both competition and competition! It never occurred to me that a power of one of the many existing organizations in Bulgaria, even less a subsidiary of an international organisation, could be nailed down to a member of such an important body. And that's not all! Note from the texts these Articles referred to by these organisations have no commitment not to carry out another paid activity. They will work in the Court of Auditors on a fee, they will work on a scale during the time they develop other advisory, mediation and other activities. I cannot believe that serious people can offer such texts in which these two members of the five-year staff will be paid for participation in meetings of the Court of Auditors and will be left to carry out the other activities they are engaged in. And they are indicated, if you will, in the registrations of these two non-governmental organisations, which will identify them and there it is very clear what they can do, including consulting, mediating, conducting external audits on the spending of European money, public procurement consultations, that is, in their main activities, they will be engaged in consulting organisations which will then be audited by the Court of Auditors. They will participate in the Court of Auditors' meetings where the audit programme will determine which sites to be audited and then vote on these audit reports. There are no requirements for keeping professional secrecy or for what they should do in cases where they are in conflict of interest. In fact, this is also very difficult to identify in this situation. It is not normal for the Court of Auditors to have members carrying out other activities competing with the activities of the Court of Auditors. Here you are all financial auditors, auditors and so on. Explain to me who are members of the Institute of Internal Auditors and whether the activities of a member of the Institute of Internal Auditors coincide with the subject of an audit of the Court of Auditors? I think so. How, by letting these people carry out their main activities, will you ensure that the Court of Auditors is an independent body?! I'm putting aside the legal dangers. There is no procedure and, of course, there is no indication in the subject of the activities of these organisations how they nominate their members if there is a dispute if this decision is attacked. In my opinion, there is also a contradiction with the Constitution, because the National Assembly elects the Court of Auditors, it does not endorse the proposals of NGOs, even less to those based in foreign countries.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u244	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mrs. Menda Stoyanova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u245	My fellow Members, I am making my speech to guide you by listening to Mrs Manolova's speech, whose purpose I can only characterize as an attempt to manipulate the MPs. The Institute of Internal Auditors is a non-governmental organization registered in Sofia City Court under the Non-profit Persons Act. The Institute of Internal Auditors is a professional organisation which, as such, is a member of the International Organisation of the Institute of Internal Auditors, which is worldwide and which is a member of almost all European countries, China, Russia and so on, as well as a member of the European Confederation of the Institute of Internal Auditors, which is an officially recognised organisation and even cooperates with the European Commission. What Mrs. Manolova is trying to manipulate you about is the fact that the Institute of Internal Auditors has won from this international audit organisation, in which she is a member, the right to accept the documents, to check them and to register those Bulgarian citizens who wish to take an examination before this international organisation in order to obtain two international certificates known to the guild as CIA and SGAP. I want to tell you that thanks to this the CIA international certificate is translated into Bulgarian and Bulgarian citizens are no longer forced to appear in English on the exam. This Mrs. Manolova qualifies as an affiliate. There's something else I'd like to tell you in this direction. There is an organization called Intosai, in which the Bulgarian Court of Auditors has been a member for many years. It's an international organization of crap palaces. This organization, Intosai, has concluded cooperation agreements with both the International Institute of Internal Auditors, the International Institute in question and the European Confederation of the Institute of Internal Auditors. Only we in Bulgarian here do not have such agreements. And we won't have, as long as MPs from this high tribune are trying to insinuate a division of any principle, to pretend to be pro-Americans, pro-Russians. By the way, a clamp in this international organization, based in the United States as its headquarters, belongs to Russia. The exam is held in Russian as well as in Bulgarian. So as long as they continue to manipulate us and push us to divide ourselves into pro-Americans, pro-Europeans, pro-Russians or pro-Russians, I do not know what, we will not have cooperation between Bulgarian professional organizations... as there is at European and global level. The second manipulation concerns that we, as the National Assembly, will not elect the members. They will be proposed by these organisations. The President of the Court of Auditors shall have the right and duty only to submit them to the National Assembly and here, under the procedure of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and according to the explicit text set out in this Law, the people proposed by professional organisations will undergo a selection procedure through the relevant committee, which will report in this House. This means that the committee, if it considers that these people do not meet professional, ethical or other standards, may not accept them, not vote them in the National Assembly and require those organisations to submit other applications to it. Finally, the big theme of these people being able to work something else. Mrs. Manolova, this is also available by other regulatory authorities, is not a precedent first. But it's not that important. More importantly, ladies and gentlemen, we have a Law on Conflict of Interest, which is the guarantor. If these people fall within the scope of the Law on Conflict of Interest, they cannot be members of the Court of Auditors as stated in this Law. That's the guarantee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u246	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. - What's the line? Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u247	Mr. Chairman! Ms. Stoyanova, the point is that these organisations not only receive the right to make proposals, which we would not dispute, but it is determined that they have reserved seats in the Chamber of Auditors. If you continue to insist on this option, let me remind you, because you and I should at least remember this period from the mid-'80s when it was a very fashionable state-public beginning. And then some organizations had reserved rights together with the state authorities to form certain institutions and thus combine the now called civil society with the state. That term wasn't that popular back then. So the further you go, the more you come. Don't put this pathos in, because what you were denying back then as some unacceptable form, you're now offering it as very progressive. And they're pretty much the same, except we're already talking about transnational organisations here. In this case, it is not a question to talk about who looks to the West and the East, because the Bulgarian Parliament is increasingly looking at Bulgaria. This is the big problem and that is why Bulgarian citizens no longer see representatives and defenders of Bulgarian interests in the Bulgarian institutions. That's the big problem, it's not the question of whether they're based in the East or in the West. I would accept if you propose that organisations be one of those reserved to make proposals, but the National Assembly or the President of the Court of Auditors as an importer should not be obliged to give two subscription seats to these organisations, and even less so, they should work on a fee essentially. It is the same as convincing us that magistrates, if they are not in this case in conflict of interest, can also develop some other private activity with justice. The same is because the Court of Auditors is the body that must ensure the most public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u248	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. Second line, Mrs. Cornelia Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u249	Ms. Stoyanova, you have repeatedly referred to the Law on Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests. We should note that this bill has dropped all possible sanctions if there is a conflict of interest. Firstly, the possibility of early termination of these people's mandate if a violation of the law is found. Organizations that broadcast them don't have a chance to recall them. The President of the Court of Auditors shall not be able to request their recall. There is no possibility that, in the event of a violation of the Law on Conflict of Interest, measures can be taken, except for one, to again adopt a new law so that when the law changes, we can recall them. That is, you guarantee them that whatever they do, in whatever conflict of interest they fall or break the law, there is no mechanism for their removal and sanctions against them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u250	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Professor Gechev, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u251	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Firstly, we are talking about elements of giving national sovereignty to international organisations, albeit indirectly. It's more important than that. Here we are talking about a state-public body that controls the spending of state money. According to the same logic, why are there no directors of commercial banks that are in the management of the national bank? Why are there no directors of insurance companies or their organizations in the management? In this regard, I have a question for colleague Stoyanova. I ask her to respond because she, as President of the Commission, has made a serious comparative analysis of the practices of the waste palaces in Europe. Because we're done! My question is: in which country does a member of the European Union, Mrs. Stoyanova, in which country exactly or countries has such practice? I also have the same question to the President of the Court of Auditors Mrs. Rumenova. Can she share any such practices of including representatives of national, non-governmental organisations, international organisations in the management of accounting chambers of other countries and peoples of the European Union? I demand that this question be answered because whenever we adopt laws for the Republic of Bulgaria, they should be based on a comparative analysis of laws on the same subject of activity in other countries. I share that I am personally deeply embarrassed when in Bulgaria we adopt laws that are worldwide unknown. Once again, in which countries, Mrs. Stoyanova, as Chairman of the Budget Committee, is there such a practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u252	Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First he'll respond to Mr. Stoilov's line. Great, Mr. Stoilov, there's nothing wrong with having similar forms of civic participation and control in those years that you and I remember. There's nothing wrong with a well-forgotten memory today. I think we also had a very big debate in the previous Parliament in this direction about the involvement of civil society. I believe that your government was overthrown precisely because you did not win this debate. For me, this is a key issue. Civil society through professional organisations must make decisions, not politicians who always make political decisions. Ms. Ninova, in art. 19, where the possibilities for early termination of the term of office are described, i.e. 3 is called incompatibility under art. Article 16 (a) and the incompatibility under Article 16 (b) and (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 16 includes the violation of the Law on Conflict of Interest. So I will no longer comment on your line. Mr. Gechev, I will not answer to you, but I will refer again to Mr. Yanaki Stoilov, who called on us to watch Bulgaria, the Bulgarian conditions and what we need to do to ensure our development, to guarantee a free civil society and not to copy as copywriters the texts of laws from the European Union, as you have unfortunately done, preparing Bulgaria for entry into the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u254	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. For a personal explanation, the People's Representative Maya Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u255	You can't give her the floor for a personal explanation, Mr. Chairman. Mine was the back of her line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u256	It was in the statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u257	Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, because you accused me of manipulation and pro-Russian, pro-Chinese or pro-American moods, I will respond to both. The problem with the International Institute of Internal Auditors is related to the fact that it has received subsidiary status.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u258	The part?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u259	The Institute of Internal Auditors in Bulgaria has the status of a subsidiary of the International Institute of Internal Auditors registered in Florida, USA. The Institute of Internal Auditors, registered in the United States, has affiliates in 140 countries. You are right that there is a subsidiary in Russia, in China, in Austria, in Finland, but neither Russia, nor China, nor Austria, nor Finland have thought that the representative of this institute should appoint him to their supreme audit authority. So in this sense I am not set up pro-Russian, pro-Chinese or pro-American, but pro-Bulgarian, by insisting that persons proposed by affiliates of international organizations should not be appointed to supreme audit institutions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u260	Way to go, Ma.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u261	In addition, you must be sufficiently honest from this platform and acknowledge that you have provided for these people, mentioned by two non-governmental organisations, to work on a fee part-time, on a scale such as their main activity, which is related to the subject of the Court of Auditors' activities, will carry out the rest of the time. In other words, this means that the judges should be given the right to lawyer up, that is, during the most part of their time being lawyers, and from time to time to go and to decide on a case in which they are lawyers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u262	That's beyond personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u263	Do not talk about the incompatibility in art. 19. The Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest does not govern this topic. There are no responsibilities, no requirements, no control over two of the most important audit body members. That's what you're doing! That's why I'm saying the insolent lobbyist text!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u264	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Procedure Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u265	Dear Mr. President, I regret to speak to you with reproach for allowing a personal explanation on a matter in which there was nothing personal and there was no explanation. We abstained repeatedly at Mrs. Manolova's exhibition, including replicating it. We did not understand what dominates there.. whether imperialism or its position towards non-governmental organizations, but as much as procedural means to use, we still will not understand it because the thesis is unclear. Insinuations are being made, manipulations are being done with legal facts. Take out the document and show it's an affiliate. Since it is an international organization, it has status. Everyone can open the court registers and see that the organization has its headquarters in the Republic of Bulgaria. All prestigious professional organizations are also members of international organisations. I'm sorry there's no International Accounting Organization in Moscow to certify...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u266	There, there.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u267	You should not abuse in this way, including polarizing things and geopolitically. [[Strong noise in GERB.]] I've been through the websites.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u268	In case you've forgotten, the procedure in the manner of conduct is for me, not for Mrs. Manolova. In addition, Mrs. Manolova was mentioned by name in a statement by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova. When a person is mentioned by name or is personally affected, he is given the opportunity to explain himself. Professor Gechev asked Mrs. Rumenova a question. Mrs. Rumenova, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u269	And I have a question for her. Can I ask him too?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u270	Let Mr. Dobrev ask himself a question. Mr. Dobrev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u271	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mrs. Stoyanova, I've always had great sympathies for you, but to tell you the truth, I'm just disappointed. [[Radio.]] I'm not a professional on this subject, but I'm following the debate with a lot of interest. In addition to supporting all the motives of my colleagues so far, I would also like to ask you a few questions. Imagine that the President of the Court of Auditors, which we choose, did not like these two proposals from non-governmental, Russian or American organisations. So what do we do? Or he doesn't offer them, he just doesn't like them, he doesn't like them. For example, they don't have good knowledge or the people they offer don't. Then what are we doing in the case? [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] I would add to the legal terms of my colleagues, and I would like to say that you are actually allowing the prosecutor, who prepares the prosecution, to be part of the legal staff as well. That is to say, people who are going to consult checkpoints have the right to file charges against them later. Don't tell me we have good practice. The case of KP MG is clear to us 3.5 billion of the Bulgarian people, 200 thousand. lv. fine for them. They drink their whiskey somewhere, we pay. I want you to ensure that this thing doesn't happen here. Thirdly, lecturers, MPs, former taxmen, drivers and so on spoke on this topic. I would like to hear the opinion of a man who works at the Court of Auditors. Therefore, Mrs. Rumenova, I have the following question for you: how and what exactly will these people work in the Court of Auditors? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u272	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Kadyev? You agree to wait for Mrs. Rumenova to answer the questions. Here you go, Mrs. Rumenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen! Many words have been said here and many statements have been made. On the subject of supporting words and allegations of evidence, we have not taken a step in this direction. Personally, as a serious professional, I support the idea of involving civil society in various bodies. The Court of Auditors works very well with representatives of civil society. We have an agreement with them and we are working excellently. As for the issue of involving representatives of civil society who can't even use the word work, because you asked me what exactly will work, I'm a bit divided myself. These two representatives of civil society... [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] That's right, two specific professional organizations. Thanks for filling me in. My question was to some of you when you spoke, why should the Lawyers' Union not be able to propose a member when half of the Court of Auditors' audits are legality audits? However, he cannot propose a member. Here, we have fixed exactly two organizations - those to whom the subject of activity, by definition, puts them in conflict of interest. By definition! If someone tells you that there is a text protecting the interests of the Court of Auditors, it is a single declaration which they submit when they enter or enter the Court of Auditors, and no longer have a legislative obligation to declare a conflict of interest, such as text and obligation, for auditors, for Presidents and Vice-Presidents. Mr. Dobrev, it will be difficult for me, because once they join on the basis of art. 15, from here until the end of the Law there is no text explaining what these people are doing there. Right, they're coming. They're gonna be working on it. What is more serious to me is that these people will actually manage the Court of Auditors. The mechanism laid down in this Law, which takes a decision with four out of five votes, means that the voice of either one or both is the determining authority for the adoption of the programme, which includes all types of audit sites that the Court of Auditors will audit for the following year. They will rule and vote on the internal documents for attestations adopted by the Court. In fact, they will take this vote, as Mr. Dimitrov said, the blocking voice. We will have one blocking vote or vote that will, in fact, lead the Court of Auditors, because it does not matter what the President and the Vice-Presidents vote, as they need another vote and this will be the voice of these two individually designated organisations. So as far as your question is concerned, what are they going to do about it, I don't know! In this Law there is not a single text for their obligation, there is not a single text for their responsibility, there is not a single text that obliges them to keep a professional secret. The Court of Auditors shall deal with classified information. Nothing like that happens. I don't know how this is gonna happen, but with this Law, that can't happen! Absolutely. Here we are all aware that it is not a model of the Court of Auditors at all, because the model is one and it is the Constitution, and it is a collegial one. We have no argument about this. The point is, we're faking it here, and that's why we're breaking the Constitution. One Chair and two Vice-Presidents shall be in the conditions of delegated competence. They are in a hierarchical relationship with each other and there is a text in this Law that says that the President determines competences. In addition, there are two people for whom there is not a single text in the whole Law. [[Heckling]] Please read the draft. Art. 1 (1) (a) 15 to the end, there is no matter of their duties or their responsibilities. Mr. Gechev, you asked me if there were such forms.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u274	With reserved seats.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u275	There are no reserved seats anywhere. There is in one or two chambers one form where, on certain types of audits, but I would like to stress: with a strictly scheduled procedure on certain types of audits, certain persons can be included, but not in the management of the institution. However, we are talking about a constitutional body, we are not talking about anything else. And what I would like to say as a final point is that the Court of Auditors' meetings and the vote are public. The analogy with other committees, where the vote is secret, if you read the Court of Auditors' detailed documents, you will see that the time of each speaker has been regulated and recorded on a transcript and on a phonographic record until now. Access to these documents is quite possible. So in this direction nothing different happens from what is currently happening in the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u276	I think you've answered the questions, Mrs. Rumenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u277	I understand your sincere desire not to hear another opinion and also... [[Laughter and glad tidings.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u278	On the contrary, how long did I give you? How could I not... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u279	I also want you to make a difference that has already been noted about the difference between a member and a subsidiary of an organization. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u280	Thank you, Mrs. Rumenova. Please come in for a statement, Professor. Borisov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u281	There's a word for it. Borisov. Please give him a chance to make his statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u282	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, my proposal was related to the next member, but it concerns this dispute which we may have had for more than an hour and a half and is related to the status of the two representatives of professional organisations. Many true things have been said here by various colleagues. I'll allow myself to be a little more specific to colleagues who are not...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u283	But within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u284	Yeah, within five minutes. At the University of National and World Economy (UNWE) there are two departments Both are at the heart of the creation of both one and the other organisation, at the heart of the Court of Auditors, they have developed the first law, and they have all been President of the Court of Auditors so far. I have attended many of their debates, including I have now spoken to more than 15 people, to clarify the advantage of one or the other model.. I am talking about the sole and collective model of the management of the Court of Auditors. I must tell you that in the professional community, too, there is no uniform opinion which of the two models is better. So I'm saying, half of them support the sole model, half of them support the collective model. The supporters of the collective model mainly bring out the collective irresponsibility problem we are voting for you now, because the next time I submit my report you will vote for me and so on. In support of the sole model, they fear turning the Chamber into a contract system by political forces, government power and so on. If we take the extremes, however, in the sole model, the most typical example is in England, where the Chief Auditor, the Chief of the Court of Auditors is appointed by the Queen and there is no mandate. For the rest of his life is the term, and no one doubts, for example, that there will be custom systems. So there is no single opinion of one is for the group model, the other is for the single model. There are intermediate models, many intermediate models. In this model, which is now being proposed, I personally believe that the presence of the representatives of the two professional organisations within the Court of Auditors is a great achievement. That's quite an achievement. We talk a lot about civil control and when we actually get to the step that needs to be done to have such control, we suddenly reverse and start looking for all sorts of reasons not to let them. Welcoming their presence, however, I agree that their status must be very clear and should not raise doubts. What do I mean? Mr. Yordan Tsonev said a fee. He's a university professor on retainer. I don't remember, one of the colleagues on the left pulled out another reason, which is also valid. I'm not worried it's an affiliate. Colleagues, auditors and accountants participate in various international organisations in various forms. The most elementary is that it strives to align, as International Accounting Standards are created, so is International Standards in Audits, because the economy is already global, you cannot work with differences in audit of a company. That doesn't bother me. I am concerned about the fact that these two members are not allowed to influence, the word was lobbyist on behalf of their professional organizations. [[The President gives a sign that the time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u285	Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u286	Last sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u287	Finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u288	There's no thesis on who's for or against.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u289	I'm saying what it is. 15 which is now Art. 16, is recorded..... and conflict of interest............................................................................................ I propose to supplement this sentence in para. 2 With:.. to carry out an activity that is contrary to the same law..................................................................................................... Which means, in practice, that they are not entitled to the rights of Mrs. Manolova by saying that their activities at the Institute of Internal Auditors are entered and validated in the Court of Auditors. In other words, they will not be entitled in connection with this text or to audit during that time, the same applies to the accountants expert or to carry out their activities at the Institute of Internal Auditors. They become only members of the Court of Auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u290	Thank you, Mr. Borisov, we understand your point. First line, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u291	Thank you, Madam President. Prof. Borisov, the idea that the Institute of Graduated Accountants and the Institute of Internal Auditors to offer is that these are professional organizations that will give people professionals in the relevant area, who will participate in the College, will also exercise control and bring professionalism. If that's the case, and that's obviously true, and we support it without worrying that it's affiliates and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u292	They're not affiliates.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u293	That doesn't matter. The other fact matters if these people are professionals, why are you denying them the right to receive a salary from the work they will perform? Why do they have to be, let's not be on retainer, on payment for a job done? They will no longer be able to carry out their activities as professionals outside their work at the Court of Auditors for which they are not paid. They're not in that list there. If they start to fulfill their main profession, they are instantly in conflict of interest. They don't have to fill out any declarations. If he is an auditor and is a member of the Court of Auditors and continues to audit someone, it is a conflict of interest. If he's an accountant in the same way. If these two bodies, because my colleagues were saying: no, they can offer not auditors and not accountants, but e.g. lecturers. Then what's the point of these two organizations proposing? Therefore, the key here is: these two people should be members of the Court of Auditors. No fee, no pay per hour, by number or anything else. Members, such as the President and alternates, without the right to carry out any activity other than in the Court of Auditors for their term of office plus teaching, as for the President and alternates. That's the right approach. Accept it, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u294	Second line Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u295	Mr. Borisov, thank you for your speech and support that professional organizations should participate. For the first time, their representatives, their elected representatives, will participate in the activities of such a higher authority. I accept your addition because you believe that with it we will calm the spirits and certainly guarantee that these people will not be in conflict of interest. I'd support her and support her. However, I must disappoint you that, in my opinion, even though we are going to adopt such an amendment, this will not reassure colleagues on the left, because that is not the problem. The problem is that for the first time professional, civil society organizations will have the right to vote, which is taken away by the MPs, to nominate their party kittens. [[Loud noise and lines on the left.]] That's why the whole howling, Mr. Borisov, is going to be people who can pass the party rule, because precisely the fourth voice, the blocking voice of the member broadcast by the professional organization, will be a guarantor not to pass the party orders and party interests. That's exactly what the gentlemen on the left are complaining about. [[BSP LB lines. A line from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u296	I can't, 'cause I'm gonna be fourth. Now for the third line... [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]] I didn't give you the floor in the line-up procedure. There are three people requested for lines. Mrs. Manolova has the floor. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]] Take your seat and don't disturb the order in this room. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u297	Honourable Members, Madam President, honourable Professor Borisov! I will allow myself to disagree with you that this is about the implementation of civil control. Because when a representative of a non-governmental organisation becomes a member of a public body, it ceases to be representing civil society and controlling the activities of that body. He will participate in decision-making and will not control the way in which that body makes decisions. It's got nothing to do with it. Furthermore, we cannot talk about any competition and any competition here, because the following text states the procedure that, within 14 days of the expiry of the term of office of the members of the Court of Auditors, in the case of the destruction of the current one, the Institute of Graduated Accountants, respectively the other Institute, makes a proposal to the President of the Court of Auditors for the election of a new member. Within three days of receipt of the proposal, the President shall submit it to the National Assembly. What competition, what competition?! The President of the Court of Auditors will be obliged to submit to Parliament the proposal of an institute which is a subsidiary of another international institute based in the United States of America. [[GERB lines.]] The problem here is not whether it's based in Moscow or Florida. Here the problem is that we are giving the right to an organisation which is a subsidiary of an international organisation based in another country, imperative that it designates a member of the Supreme Audit Authority. [[Reply from rapporteur Menda Stoyanova.]] If you want a civic participation, give competition, give other organizations the opportunity to offer, to compete. We've witnessed a mass of public procedures. [[Noise and lines.]] This is a cover-up behind civil society of the allocation of posts in the Court of Auditors. Or worse yet: handing over national interest to international organisations based in other countries. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Well, that's it! Whether it's in China or Thailand or the United States or Kiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u298	To Buzludja! Buzludja...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u299	It has to be based in Sofia. [[(Replication by rapporteur Menda Stoyanova: She is based in Sofia.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u300	Hole, Mr. Borisov. [[Loud noise and lines. Replies between the MPs Maya Manolova and Menda Stoyanova.]] If I have to interrupt the meeting to clarify, Mrs. Stoyanova, Mrs. Manolova?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u301	Look, it's a subsidiary, and I told you that it doesn't bother me because it's a Bulgarian organization, a union of Bulgarian auditors. However, I cannot and do not imagine that we in our law must regulate how this organisation will nominate the representative for the Court of Auditors. Well, there are internal rules for nominating, setting them up, and nominating them. As I do not understand, there may be another interpretation, but I do not understand it, that the President of the Court of Auditors is obliged to present only one person, he can present three, and who will choose the National Assembly this is another matter. He will choose one, but the organization, if she has nominated three, does not see the need of the MP, of these three to choose one. At least that's how I read the lyrics and it doesn't bother me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u302	To speak, Mr. Kadiev has the word.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u303	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear Mrs. Stoyanova! I listened with great interest to this article, which is one of the key to this law. I'd like to give a very brief historical flashback. Back in the past, the National Assembly, when a Law on the Court of Auditors was voted on, one of the proposals that I advocated was to have a President and four Vice-Presidents with the logic that there were four types of audit carried out by the Court of Auditors, four Directorates respectively, and each Vice-President to monitor his Directorate accordingly. A five-member governing body is much more operational than three. One can always get sick or the load gets too big. Now, as I understand it, in this National Assembly, such a proposal was made by the Reformation Block, then withdrawn. I wouldn't mind it being one chairman, two vice-presidents and two members. At first glance, I also accepted the idea of the two members being proposed by the IDES and the Institute for Internal Auditors. However, I find more and more shortcomings in this approach. I want three sentences to tell you the flaws. First of all, the independence of the Court of Auditors is lost. These two members will still be working at the same time at their places in the IDEC, or at the Institute of Internal Auditors, and members of the Court of Auditors at the same time. Secondly, what Mrs Manolova said is really lost because: why should only these two organizations have the right to propose? Thirdly, there is always the potential for conflict of interest. This text is translated by the way in which the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors was established, where there is also a representative of the IDES and there is a representative of the BNB. There should be no conflict of interest there either. I want to remind you what happened back there. One of the members of this Commission is the Chief Auditor of BNB. We all assume he's one of the two who saved KTB's license. So he, as Chief Auditor of BNB, selects the auditor of CCB and then as a member of the Commission, must punish the same one that he has previously chosen as Chief Auditor of BNB. There's your conflict of interest. The same thing can happen in this Commission. Therefore, and I conclude, honourable Members, I think the cleaner option is simply to say: The National Assembly elects, on a proposal from the President of the Court of Auditors, two Members.......................... the President of the Court of Auditors will then propose them to the President of the Court of Auditors to assess what he will propose to the National Assembly and the National Assembly to elect two members. And in the next article. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3, where it writes: "The Vice-Presidents and the Vice-Presidents cannot take up another paid position" to add the word "The Members." So these members really, and I return to the words of Mr. Yordan Tsonev, to be employees of the Court of Auditors, to know who their employer is, whose interests they are protecting and not both of some non-governmental organisation and of the Court of Auditors of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u304	Mr. Kadiev, do you have an offer to edit art. 15 because you're talking about art. 16? That's what Professor Scully did. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u305	I'm making an offer for both members. If you want, then I'll get up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u306	After that, for art. 16. Now let's clean up the editing of art. 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u307	Okay. The National Assembly shall elect two members of the Court of Auditors on a proposal from the President of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u308	A al. 2 stays in this option?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u309	I'm tempted to put 70%, as they won't have any other income. The logic of the 50 percent is that they have other income than these.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u310	That's off because they're at work.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u311	Well, how does he get out, they have to get a monthly reward? [[Replys from MP Yordan Tsonev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u312	Colleagues, in this order of discussion, as a committee, we can continue tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u313	Okay. Madam President, so that I do not complicate the process............................................................................................ 2 remains unchanged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u314	I get it. Any lines to Mr. Kadyev's statement? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u315	What are we discussing?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u316	We're discussing art. 15, debates are under art. 15. [[Relations from the National Representative Borislav Borisov.]] No, this is the new article. 15, which the Commission proposes. It proposes to create a new art. 15. Since both of them spoke of art. 16, which has not been reported, so I asked you to specify your proposals. Mr. Slavov has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u317	Thank you, Madam President. I take the floor because I've listened to all sorts of manipulative statements from the left. I don't know what to call them, but according to them, not obviously non-governmental organizations, but some implemented organizations of someone or something like that, they're almost gonna force the National Assembly to elect exactly some people as members of the board. Not at all! [[BSP LB.]] Because I hear you're replicating me from a place like this! The National Assembly may choose, but may not support. Obviously, when he does not vote in favour of the individual member, he will not be elected. It's that simple, it's nothing complicated. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Don't act like you don't know that, because you're very well aware. So much for this point. No one can impose his will on the National Assembly, even less than two NGOs. They can offer applications, but by not being approved, they will obviously have to propose others if they want to have a representative in the management of the Court of Auditors. With regard to the NGOs themselves, I am surprised because from the left last year, perhaps even it was pò last year, when discussing the Election Code submitted by the right NGO candidates at what lightning speed were announced and became members of the CEC. If memory serves, there was something that happened to the chairman. Let us not forget these things and bear in mind when we speak one thing and now another. Regarding the conflict of interest, as I said, I am not surprised at the manipulative statements on the left. I'm embarrassed, and it's disturbing to me not knowing the legislation that was heard in a statement here. It is unlikely that the members of the Court of Auditors are not subject to the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest, including the two members to be proposed by the two NGOs in question. However, that is not true. In particular, the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest states that they are subject and are verified under this Law. And again for reference to the same person who spoke and said false things, in the same Law, in art. 12 it is written what declarations of conflict of interest they submit, including in the event of accidental conflict and in each vote. Anyone who has touched this Law is very well aware of what serious arrangement it is and what heavy responsibility they can bear. Enough of this manipulative talk! Let's be serious! I want to finish with this. Let's look at a similar framework that exists in the Bulgarian legislation. There the Association of Commercial Banks proposes a member of the Board of Directors. Let's take a look at the Internal Financial Audit Act we were dealing with last year or the year before. There, a member of non-governmental organisations is also proposed in the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors. And so on and so forth. Obviously there is such a practice and obviously it is good to have civilian control. After all, the National Assembly will say the heavy word whether a proposal will become a member of the committee or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u318	Thank you. - What's the line? There is. Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u319	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Slavov, a truly disappointing statement. It's not civil control, it's a forgery of civil control. It does not suit you to protect the reserved places of certain organizations in a state body. Excuse me, it is insulting to compare the appointment of two members designated by these organizations with the competition procedure that was in the election of the CEC. Then there were thirty candidates, of whom 13. [[Replications from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] We're talking about a specific appointment here. However, you ask interesting questions that I would also ask importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u320	And in the Code, you did it with the Blur.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u321	The following text states that within 14 days the two institutions propose and the President shall submit within 3 days, after which the National Assembly shall elect. What if the President does not submit if, for example, the two proposals do not meet the requirements? Well, there won't be a Court of Auditors. There is no procedure for refusing the President to submit the proposals of the two NGOs. What if the National Assembly doesn't choose them? They may decide to offer the same members again, and so to time indefinite! Therefore, you can, in the creativity and pseudo-civil control that you are inventing, block the activities of the Court of Auditors at all. [[Reply from rapporteur Menda Stoyanova.]] There is no way this could be non-governmental organisations that have a seat in a state body. They become pro-government organizations. What are these privileges?! When did civil procedures have a favorite civil organisation?! Yes, it's normal for you to favour those based in the United States of America, but that's not even the biggest trouble. [[RB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u322	Second line? A hole, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u323	Thank you, Madam President. I'm starting to wonder now, and I don't know if we should write down if this is what they expect from the left, that proposals are made by the Association of Bakers or by the Association of dairy producers to say that there is no conflict of interest?! It's just not serious. Let the people who work and understand this matter have the opportunity to offer a representative. I repeat: the National Assembly may not approve it and will have to propose another. As far as the work of the Court is concerned, obviously since the President and Vice-Presidents are elected, who have very clear powers under the new Law, I note again that the body is no longer college, but works on another principle, the Palais will be able to work. Mrs. Manolova, I am surprised that you are putting this as a question because it should comfort you in your attempt to delay the possible choice of new leadership, because the Law provides for an opportunity to choose this function to perform the old leadership. I'm surprised you even put that question. Think about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u324	Thank you. You have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u325	Thank you, Madam President. I'm doing an editorial amendment procedure in para. 2 of art. 15, which was challenged by Mr. Kadyev's proposal. If it is accepted, I propose para. 2 to look like this: The members of the Court of Auditors elected in accordance with para. 1 of art. 15 shall receive remuneration of 80 per cent of the President's basic monthly remuneration.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u326	I get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u327	Why do you tie one with the other?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u328	Because they are not doing any other work for that alone.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u329	Any other MPs? There aren't any people who want to make a statement. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. Editorial proposals were made in the course of the discussion. I will first put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Kadiev, who proposed art. 15, para. 1 read: The National Assembly shall elect two members on a proposal from the President of the Court of Auditors. That's the offer. We vote on Mr. Kadiev's proposal. They voted 124 MPs: 36, against 57, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Tsonev's proposal was made conditional upon Mr. Kadiev's adoption. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev.]] It's very clear in the transcript, Mr. Kadyev. He doesn't mind, you object. I now put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new art. 15 in the version and its name on the Commission report. We vote. They voted 137 MPs: 106, against 23, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u330	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against this text because it is another proposal of the denationalisation policy that is being carried out; because it is based on the principle already said by some of the future members of the Court of Auditors: That is, the Bulgarian citizens who form the budget and the Bulgarian state who spends it will have to be controlled, by individuals who deal with any other activities that will periodically give estimates of this well or poorly spent money. So with such decisions not only reduces the effectiveness of control, but you consciously or not reduce the trust of Bulgarian citizens in key constitutional institutions. And there is no civil control here, when certain civil organisations are favored legally, monopolised. Where are the supporters of the competition here - right, reformers, GERB and so on? And even less patriots who support such proposals? Hypocritical! Hypocritical behavior, hypocritical and harmful to the country. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-22.u331	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Dear Members of Parliament, yesterday in the vote on the programme for this week, we agreed that depending on whether we will have finished the legislative part of the programme by 2:00 today, the beginning of the control will depend on tomorrow. We are not finished with the legislative part, tomorrow we will continue with the second vote of the Bill on the Court of Auditors at 9:00. Control will be from his usual hour. And now announcements of Parliamentary Control on 23 January 2015, Friday, 11:00 p.m.: First will answer the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev to 1 question from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov. The Minister of Interior Veselin Vuchkov will answer 13 questions from the MPs Ivan Valkov, Georgi Kuchukov, Magdalena Tasheva, Cornelia Ninova, Lyubomir Vladimirov, Ilian Todorov, Atanas Atanasov, Krasimir Yankov The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer 13 questions from the MPs Maya Manolova, Valentin Nikolov Ivanov, Georgi Bozhinov, Lyubomir Vladimirov, Vasil Antonov, Dimitar Boychev and Ivan Valkov, Vyara Cerovska, Yavor Haytov, Jayhan Ibryamov, Villa Lilkov, Yavor Haytov and Hristo Todorov, Dimitar Dubov and Manol Genov, Kornelia Marinova, and 1 question from the MPs Dora Jankova and Manol Genov. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer 7 questions from the MPs Maya Manolova, Georgi Turnovaliski, Mihail Mikov and Filip Popov, Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov, Petar Slavov, Svetla Bachvarova, and Georgi Kadiev. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer 11 questions from the MPs Kalina Balabanov, Volen Siderov, Yavor Notev, Desislav Chukolov, Metodi Andreev, Angel Naydenov The Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov will answer 5 questions from the MPs Kristian Vigenin?2 questions, Miho Mihov, Desislav Chukolov, and Boris Stanimirov, and 1 question from the National Representative Julian Angelov. The Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer 5 questions from the MPs Antoni Trenchev, Valentin Pavlov, Dimitar Gorov, Dzhevdet Chakarov, and Dimitar Shishkov and 2 questions from the MPs Georgi Kuchukov, and Nastimir Ananiev. The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev will answer 2 questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov and Dimitar Dubov, Kalina Balabanov, and 1 question from the National Representative Boyka Marinska. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer 10 questions from the MPs Martin Dimitrov 2 questions, Petar Slavov, Georgi Nedev, Villas Lilkov, Krasimir Yankov, Hristo Gadzhev, Georgi Kadiev, Desisslav Chukolov, and Borislav Iglev and 2 questions from the MPs Nikolai Alexandrov, and Kiril Tsochev. Tourism Minister Nikolina Angelkova will answer 2 questions from the MPs Valentin Nikolov Ivanov, and Boris Yachev. Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer 2 questions from MPs Emil Raynov, and Maya Manolova. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva will answer 2 questions from the MPs Philip Popov, and Yanaki Stoilov. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer 9 questions from the MPs Metodi Andreyev, Bunyamin Hasan, Aidoan Ali and Hamid Hamid, Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov, Mustafa Ahmed and Erdinch Hajrula, Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev, Yavor Haytov, Svetla Bachvarova, Dimitar Bajraktarov, Maya Manolova, and 1 question from the National Representative Kornelia Nino. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Minister of Interior Veselin Vuchkov on a question with a written answer from the MP Mustafa Karadayi; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on 2 questions from the MPs Maya Manolova, and Nikolay Alexandrov; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov of 3 questions from the MPs Miglena Alexandrova, and Ilian Todorov, 2 questions; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration Rumyana Bachvarova on 1 question from the National Representative Georgi Bozhinov; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on 2 questions from the National Representative Ivan Stankov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova of 2 questions from the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov, and Nikolay Alexandrov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question with a written answer from the National Representative Emil Raynov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question with a written answer from the MP Vasil Antonov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 4 and art. 97, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, due to the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - six questions from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov to the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva, 2 questions, to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov, to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov, and to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova; - a question from the National Representative Rositsa Yanakieva to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova; - a request from the National Representative Rositsa Yanakieva to the Minister of Interior Veselin Vuchkov. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control session, Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov will not participate. Due to pre-planned meetings with international participation, the Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin will not participate in parliamentary control. Tomorrow we will start at 9:00 p.m. We will continue with the second reading of the Bill on the Court of Auditors. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
