ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, on 29 January 2015 a proposal was received in the National Assembly for the election of a deputy of the Bulgarian National Bank, head of the management of the Bank's supervision. The proposal was submitted in the implementation of the powers of the Governor of BNB Mr. Iskrov on the basis of art. 12, para. 2 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank. The same was sent yesterday through the e-mails of the MPs. It is published on the website of the National Assembly in the section of the Plenum Meetings. It is addressed to the Committee on Budget and Finance. In the performance of art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure should adopt procedural rules for this choice on a proposal from the Committee on Budget and Finance. We continue with point one of our program for the week: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR HELPING EARTH PRODUCERS. There is a report from the leading Committee on Agriculture and Food. We're listening, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before I present to your attention the bill for the first vote, please allow the Deputy Minister of Agriculture Mr. Grudev to be in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u3	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 148 MPs: 146 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We're listening, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u4	♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act, No 502-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 January 2015. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 27 January 2015, discussing a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act, No 502-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 January 2015. In the work of the committee took part: from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Vasil Grudev, Deputy Minister; Snezhana Blagoeva From the State Fund.................................................................................................................................................................. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Grudev. The bill provides for the following major changes: The method for determining the Managing Authority of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020 is established and allows the Authority to delegate some of its functions to other structures. The Minister for Agriculture and Food is given legal basis to issue regulations on the application of the European Union Regulations in the field of the common agricultural policy, both as regards direct payments and the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food establishes a Agriculture Council System, including the National Agriculture Council Office and persons approved to provide advice to farmers. For approved persons, a database will be created and maintained. Municipal councils should provide for use a commercial area of municipal markets for agricultural products, except for registered farmers, and for producer organisations, their associations and groups. A number of provisions relating to the production of isoglucose and sugar are revised. Some pending texts relating to state intervention on the agricultural production market, export subsidies and the Sapard programme are being dropped. The State Fund is intended to support the creation of short supply chains and local producers' markets and the respective definitions are introduced. The decisions of the Governing Council of the Fund are set up to be published on the websites of the Fund and of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The decisions themselves will be made by a majority of 2/3 of those present and not by all members. In addition, the Executive Director will be able to delegate some of the decision-making powers conferred on him and to conclude assistance contracts. Some texts relating to the Integrated Administration and Control System are reviewed. The registration system for applicants and aid applications will also register payment applications. Additional data relevant for the administration of support schemes and measures shall be included in the identification system for agricultural parcels. The name of the specialized layer of goods in good condition shall be changed to those eligible for support. The National Revenue Agency and the Customs Agency will provide the information necessary for carrying out administrative checks under conditions and in order set out in jointly issued interaction instructions. Almost entirely revised and supplemented the texts regulating the application of direct payment schemes, giving binding effect to specific national decisions. The direct payment schemes for the new programming period are detailed, mentioning the possibility of applying notified transitional national aid schemes and implementing the applicable European legislation. The specific conditions for implementing the schemes will be laid down by a Regulation of the Minister for Agriculture and Food. The minimum requirements for natural and legal persons are laid down to meet the definition of active farmers and not to be included in the negative list of persons who will not be eligible for support. The application of progressive reduction and corresponding ceiling of payments under the single area payment scheme is envisaged. Farmers who have the right to payment under this scheme will also be able to receive support under the Scheme for the redistribution of payment and under the Scheme for small farmers. A legal framework for the implementation of the Young Farmers Scheme, production-related support schemes and a new cotton scheme shall be established. In the subsequent discussion, a disagreement was expressed regarding the possibility that the decisions of the Board of Directors of the State Fund..................... are taken by a majority of 2/3 of those present and not by all members of the Council. Reserves were also expressed in the version of separate texts, which should be refined between first and second readings, but in general all opinions were in favour of the bill. Following the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Food unanimously, with 19 votes for......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. There are no reports from the Committee on Budget and Finance and from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. On behalf of the importer, Deputy Minister Grudev, would you like to take an attitude? No. I'm opening the debate. Here you are for speeches, honourable Members of the House. Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, in the Committee on Agriculture and Food, it was indeed with full unanimity that the Agricultural Aid Bill was supported by the proposed amendments by the Council of Ministers and the Bulgarian Socialist Party will support this bill for several reasons. First, as you know, at the end of July, the Oresharski government adopted the Concept of Direct Payments for the new programming period by 2020, which should accordingly find their place in the Agricultural Aid Act, given that many of the existing support schemes during the new programming period do not work. This means that the Agricultural Support Act, which is framework in this area, should also make necessary changes. We also support the accepted philosophy in the bill. Much of the specific texts that concern the settlement of specific relationships and the implementation of direct schemes should be forwarded to the European regulations and can thus be really relatively easier to manage the processes that concern the support of farmers. A number of texts have been dropped in the draft law which no longer comply with the legislation of the European Commission and therefore cannot be implemented in Bulgaria. So this revision, which was made to the law, and the bill proposes changes in dropping a number of mechanisms and measures that are not being proposed, is also a positive fact. The bill also allows for the first time the Executive Director of the State Fund to delegate some of its powers to the alternates, with which the degree of responsibility in each of the Teams of the Executive Director is allocated so as to be held responsible. The bill states that the Governing Council will already publish its decisions on the website of the State Fund. This is something that should be done, and I must assure you that all decisions of the Governing Council have been published by 2009 and have also been made available to the members of the Governing Council. Obviously, since 2010, this policy or these procedures have not been followed. That is why it is imperative that we include this requirement in the bill now. Along with these positive changes that we support, we have a number of issues that need to be further discussed, refined, and can be divided into two groups. The first group are those proposals that we absolutely cannot accept. In what direction we do not accept the decisions which are already presented in the bill and are proposed to be discussed and adopted. It is recorded that the Programme Managing Authority may delegate part of its powers by contract and part of its functions to other entities. At this stage under the Act in force, the Managing Authority in the face of the Ministry of Agriculture only controls the Paying Agency by selecting the certification body. But there's talk of delegation of functions here. Imagine the managing authority, for example, delegate functions that the Technical Inspectorate performs. This means that we will have a problem in the overall management of the Fund and the structures that must accordingly take decisions that must apply a decision and exercise control. This idea that private and other bodies will perform part of the functions of the Paying Agency are not acceptable and there is absolutely no economic logic to perform this by external structures. The bill provides for a change in the decision-making of the Governing Council. The Management Board shall consist of 11 persons, including four from the Ministry of Agriculture, and, notice, the members of the Board of Directors, who shall designate the Minister of Agriculture, are not mentioned as other departments, that this must necessarily be the Deputy Minister. This is an omission that also needs to be corrected. But this is about the decision-making process by the Governing Council. Provided that there remains a quorum of two thirds of the Governing Council in order to convene a regular meeting and to decide the relevant Board of Governors on any subject, the bill proposes, however, that decisions be taken by not two thirds of the quorum or by all members of the Governing Council, but two thirds of those present. This means that with six people, any decisions relating to both national policies, State aid and a change of the board of directors of the State Fund can be taken. We do not agree with the wording of an active farmer and the requirement for an active farmer. First of all, the bill proposes that an active farmer is not the municipalities. From 2007 to 2013, regardless of the form in which municipalities manage their land resources, fields, arable land, they were entitled to receive direct payments per unit of area. Now, with the proposal being made in the Agricultural Support Bill, municipalities in one of their capacity to manage these land resources through an enterprise do not have this opportunity. They won't be active farmers. In other words, they have a process ahead of them in which they need to be reorganized, to make additional decisions in order to be able to absorb European funds. In addition, the requirement to have 5% of the subsidy is complemented by 25% of the agricultural activity and by the fact that the active farmer will be the one who recorded agriculture in the course of his economic activity. This opportunity can be realized by any company that is in Bulgaria, literally in one day at the Registration Agency with a complementary code "Economic activity and agriculture." The active farmer is a concept that should also require the production of agricultural production, and not only should it be documented that this is an opportunity for the company concerned to work in the field of agriculture. Again in the rules on requirements for a young farmer, which we all support, that additional financial resources are provided, there is one feature that is different from the first programming period. It is as follows: the first programming period a young farmer, after applying, has the opportunity to receive additional qualifications within one or two years in order to be able to carry out his work. It is now imperative that a young farmer is said to be those who have appropriate courses of qualification in one form or another and only then can they claim to receive or participate in the Rural Development Programme or receive additional subsidies. In addition to these very important changes, for us that are being proposed, and I believe that we will do what is necessary in the Committee on Agriculture with the proposals and further debate to correct some of these changes that are being proposed, there are others, respectively, which require attention, as inaccuracies are made and, to put it mildly, errors. For example, in paragraphs 13 to 16 of the bill, which concern the allocation of sugar and glucose quotas, are extremely unacceptable for us to be present in this law, at least because Bulgaria does not have a single kilogram quota for sugar production. All of a sudden, there are sections that do not describe how we will control, how we will distribute, how we will report to the European Commission. If tenders are held for the production of sugar, it is done in the European Commission. For glucose, also a product for which Bulgaria has only one operator. In other words, it is not necessary in the law to add texts which in practice in Bulgaria do not need to be controlled, implemented and under any other form defined by law. In the Advice System, first of all, here perhaps the word order is not very accurate, a National Agriculture Council Service is being established. She still exists. I think this service has existed since 1997, 1998, it has been created. If the desire is to develop it or find institutional support, we understand it, but it follows an interesting definition that the advisory work is carried out by the Agriculture Council Office plus authorities in the regulation, and here in the law it is written. I can't imagine how the Council Office does all the consulting work, and professors and professors in higher education schools, or at the Agricultural Academy, will be persons of the Council Office. I think it is more normal and fair from the point of view of traditions and experience in Bulgaria than the Council Office, which is the state structure and helps transfer knowledge, to also include higher education schools and the Agricultural Academy as part of this structure. Paragraph 36 requires that, in addition to the information provided by companies in agriculture, information of any order required by the Ministry or the services of statistics should be provided to the Paying Agency. In the Commission, I asked whether this requirement of a regulation is a directive in order to take the necessary step in this direction. I wasn't answered. I did a background check, there's no such requirement. This text means that at any time companies in agribusiness may be required to receive information...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So in this direction, it is also necessary to think. The last question I'd like to address. It is true that European regulations say that the publication of information about those who receive European funds should be accessible, and it is good in terms of really knowing who is receiving and who is acquiring European funds, but it is imperative that the State aid received is not subject to publicity from the point of view of the information. It's a split. State funds, the national budget is also part of the European budget and should also be able to search for this information, to be published and to be sufficiently accessible to anyone who is able and willing to analyze the processes in Bulgarian agriculture. To conclude, once again, I would like to call for between first and second readings to make the necessary changes so that the law really is in place a framework that will be stable by 2020, when the new programming period is in place, we can have the opportunity, through a working law, to implement the measures so that we do not have problems with the absorption of European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u7	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I won't. If you'd like to make a statement, please, Professor. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As you have heard, the Committee on Agriculture has unanimously supported the proposed law, and I would also like to point out that the ABB Parliamentary Group will support the proposed Agricultural Aid Act. This is undoubtedly a good law that gives good opportunities for more successful development of Bulgarian agricultural production. We all know that the needs of the Bulgarian agricultural production are very great and I think that with the proposals made in this law with these seven schemes, which will be followed by the payment further, the subsidization of farmers will enable the identified weak productions to develop and, unfortunately, they were one of the strongest in the time. This is livestock farming, which occupied 60% of the total production in agriculture and fruit and vegetables production, and will also maintain the priority development of cereal production and oil production. I believe that we will be able to develop very successfully also livestock farming, because there are six support schemes there that will also enable sheep farming, non-living animals to develop. This is not written in the law, but there is an opportunity through the binding support for the production to be carried out. I am extremely pleased that for the first time livestock farming and fruit and vegetable production are given the opportunity to be supported through direct subsidisation. I had the opportunity to participate in the first talks that took place in Brussels when I was in the office for two meetings. Then the dispute there was very great: what percentage to be given to support the tied production? The insistence of the big countries then was for 6%. With the insistence of the Eastern countries, and also especially of Bulgaria and Romania, we have reached 13 plus two more for protein crops - this is 15%, which gives really good opportunities for the development of Bulgarian agriculture. The law has been developed according to the arrangements with the European Union. I have some notes. I won't dwell on what Professor said. Bachvarova. Some of the things that she has proposed, I support them and I will not dwell on them, but I would like to draw attention to something that she has also addressed to the farm advisory services. It was proposed in the Law of § 11, Art. 11. 10, para. 1 with the following content: The Agriculture and Food Ministry establishes a Agriculture Council System, which includes the National Agriculture Council Office of the Minister of Agriculture and Food and those who provide advice to agricultural holdings. "Persons" means nothing more right to write "institutions" or "authorities" as proposed. We have long proposed agrarian research institutes, as well as higher schools, which have areas of agricultural production, to take part in giving advice in agriculture, because there is no other institution, there are no other institutions that give better and more complex advice than universities and research institutes. Because there are laboratories built there and when the farmer goes, in addition to receiving competent assistance and advice from direct specialists, research on soils, on feed, on food can also be done. So the best advice, the best opportunities provide precisely these institutes. I very strongly raise the question to this paragraph and to this article to add to this article scientific research institutes and higher education institutions, which have areas of agricultural production. The other thing I would like to draw attention to is that there is a slight discrepancy between the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land and the Law on Aid for Farmers. What is the point of the words "a permanent pasture" to replace it with a permanent grassland? If that happens, adjustments must be made to other laws. I believe that the law must remain in the permanent grasslands, because the permanent grasslands, in my opinion, give opportunities to open certain loopholes, to use these grasslands not for their intended purpose. I demand that there be permanent pastures and that they be provided as defined in the previous Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land for people engaged in animal farming. This is very important because farmers expect that this is precisely what they expect to be given priority pastures. Besides single farmers, these pastures are also necessary as municipal pastures for animal farming for private purposes. As foreseen in some cases, only permanent grasslands, as I said, allow for certain deviations. There are other notes, but they were pointed out by Prof. Bachvarova and I don't intend to dwell on them. The good thing is that these seven schemes cover all the more significant directions. I believe that the Agricultural Aid Act is one of the very important laws for the stage, which will play a positive role in the successful development of Bulgarian agriculture. It is supported by many farmers, except by the Commission, and except by our parliamentary group. I am personally satisfied because I have already pointed out that I had the opportunity to participate in the discussion of the common agricultural policy, which began in 2013. Despite the resistance, I believe it is a success that we have succeeded in achieving almost 15% of linked support for agricultural production. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u9	Thank you, dear Professor. Stankov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Ferihan Ahmedova. Here you are, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u10	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to express my satisfaction that the management of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is consistent with the reform of the agricultural sector launched by the previous government in line with the reform of the common agricultural policy carried out within the European Union. In its general framework, the Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Aid Act is based on the concept of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food on the application of direct payments in the Republic of Bulgaria since 2015, approved by the Government of Mr Oresharski. The changes to the implementation of the multi-layered structure of direct payments are preserved in the concept, introducing a fairer, better targeting of the more vulnerable groups of farmers, namely: small farmers, young farmers, fruit and vegetables producers, livestock farmers, organic farming. The bill provides for the following direct payment schemes: Area Single Payment Scheme, Redetributive Payment Scheme, Agricultural Practice Payment Scheme favourable to climate and the environment, so-called Green Direct Payment Scheme, Young Farmers' Fee, production-related support schemes, Small Farmers' Scheme and cotton-specific payment. These are the same schemes provided for in the concept of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food from the time of the Oresharski government. They are also in accordance with the regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council. This bill may be one of the few bills that will receive very broad support in Parliament in terms of his philosophy, all the more so that he is long awaited. The programming period is already underway and the regulations are late. The necessary technological time for the adoption of the Law of two readings, the preparation of regulations, the validation of forms, the re-tuning of software, the training of employees, an information campaign for the new schemes for farmers will find unprepared both the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the beneficiaries. There are a number of technical errors and gaps in the bill that I will not dwell on today, but we will certainly make a proposal between first and second reading of the bill. I want to focus on a few major problems that concern philosophy. The colleagues who spoke before me told about the National Agriculture Council Service. I can share with you from my practice that these services currently exist, but are not effective, they are unemployed, they do not do what farmers expect of them. If this service is maintained and is in competition with consultancy companies that are at a higher level, the National Agriculture Council Office will not succeed in this competition because it is not effectively built. Therefore, the Ministry must make an effective mechanism so that this service really works, and not just forgibly appears in the Law and in the structures. The other major flaw I'm noticing is this. On 30 December 2014, both the Draft Law amending and supplementing this Act and draft regulations were uploaded to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. In these draft regulations are reflected the views of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, but there are significant gaps in which we as MPs cannot take the attitude because they are a sub-normal act. In order to illustrate what I am talking about, I can say the following: in the concept which was sent on 1 August and on the basis of which these schemes are notified, it is written that under the small farm support scheme, the support will be up to EUR 1250 under the small farmers' fee. Under the Ordinance on the terms and conditions for the implementation of direct payments schemes in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 4 is written down that the amount of annual payments under the scheme for each farmer is determined according to art. 63, § 2 (a) and (b) of Regulation No 1307/2013 in the event of rounding up amounts exceeding EUR 500. The problem is that when exactly this scheme is notified, besides rounding up to 500 euros, the maximum of 1250 euros is also recorded. As a explanatory text to the point. 4b, is recorded: The annual payment is defined as 25% of the national average payment of the beneficiary, according to art. 63, § 1, point This gap will create a problem for thousands of farmers, because if we want to help the smallest people who need such assistance and we limit them to those 500 euros, which will not only be enough to pay their contributions so that they can get into this scheme, that means that we do not help them, but only imitate activity, which is why either the regulation needs to change in agreement with the notification, or my other proposal is to find a place in the law itself. Because the law details tobacco schemes, isoglucose schemes that do not concern a large number of beneficiaries. There is a very limited number of beneficiaries, and under the schemes where there are thousands of beneficiaries, we refer to a regulation. We can't do anything but see what the ordinance says as MPs. One of these two options must be applied. The other problem, which is created by this law and must be resolved in time between first and second readings, is with the quorum for the Board of the State Fund. In the structure of the Management Board of the State Fund, the Minister of Agriculture and Food, who is also chairman of the Commission, participates. He has the right to propose four members. The governor of the State Fund enters by law, the others are deputy ministers from the other ministries. Another question is why is the Law required to take part in the Deputy Minister of Economy after the Ministry of Economy, Energy and Tourism split? Why the economy? Rather, it is the Ministry of Tourism, but not the Ministry of Economy. Maybe that should be refined, too? Why am I against the two thirds being present? It's very easy to calculate. The Law states that the quorum for the beginning of the session is of two thirds of 11 members. With 8 people starting the Board of Directors, 6 can make decisions. In these 6 can only be from the agricultural industry "the Minister of Agriculture, the four proposed by him, and the manager of the State Fund............................................................................................................ In this way all other ministries involved are ignored. They can form their own quorum. Therefore, everyone's involvement becomes pointless. If the quorum of two thirds is made in order to prove that it has broad support, this falling quorum does not achieve this. That's why I'm asking it to be refined. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to make sure that we take advantage of all Parliament's expertise and political capacity so that we can draw up a quality, working and effective Agricultural Assistance Act to help this sector, which is a priority for Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Ahmedova. - What's the line? I won't. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u12	Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Minister, I do not see him, honourable Members! At the very beginning of my speech, I would like to emphasise that the Patriotic Front is very pleased with the timely introduction of this Bill and we will support it at first reading. The bill itself was long discussed in the Committee on Agriculture and Food. I was surprised at the long arguments that the colleagues did here, as well as the lack of attention in the MPs, especially in the left, when a respected professor spoke for 15 minutes, and the MPs of groups talked about other things among themselves. At least that's disrespect. I would like to make some comments here, which I also made in the Commission. I think the MPs should get to know them. Firstly, it is really strange that this reduction of the State of the Commission for Agriculture Advisory. Now the decision to expand this state again didn't help anyone. I don't think it's going to help again if the extended state of agriculture services is left without funding, as it used to be. I've spoken to the head of the department in three of the districts. The main problem with them was that they couldn't do their job. Due to the lack of gasoline, they could not visit the individual municipalities in the volume they needed. It is good that the new Law provides for other legal entities to be able to do so. I demand, in addition to what the speaker of the ABB Group said, that other legal entities be supplemented, I mean individual institutes dealing with agriculture, other vocational training centres that are authorised to do so because they will have the necessary finances and will be able to compensate for the lack of them. I'm sure that's what's going to happen at the Agriculture Council Office. They will be able to do her work, which is very important and necessary. The second thing I want to stand before you, honourable Members, and I shared with Deputy Minister Grudev, is that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food lacks any order in electronic security, in information provision. There is a full batak, unlike the State Fund, where everything is placed on a professional basis. And I will insist in the Commission, this will be included in the support amendments, but without a clear idea of what is going on in the Rural Development Programme, without public access to it... I have received assurances from Mr. Grudev that the ISU (Information System for Management and Monitoring) system, which you know is now operating for operational programmes, in its new form, I hope that it will be faster and better, will also be included the IAC system (Integrated Administration and Control System), which provides information to a large extent the Rural Development Programme. Once again, this must be done as quickly as possible! I note to all of you that Bulgaria, without growing and bearing good income, will never be able to get back on its feet, whatever consultants come from the United States and Japan. And from Mars to come, without agriculture on its feet, our economy will not go forward. It is therefore very important that the information service be at a new European level because it gives respect and also respect to the people who work under the Rural Development Programme and removes part of the resonant Bulgarian suspicion that people dealing with European funds are stealing. I would like to draw attention to an issue that may seem a bit sideways in the support, but it is important for the provision of the relevant coded parcels to be sustainable and stable. I can give you an example of Measure 214 right away, where people have made 5-year contracts with parcel codes, but next year the codes change. In fact, regardless of the farmers themselves, the terms of their contracts change, and very important conditions such as the number of parcels for which they want to receive support. I would like to point out that this may be formal, but it is important. Dear Members of Parliament, the other thing that I would like to draw attention to is that it is high time that we all united around the idea of lightening the business, connecting the National Revenue Agency with the National Insurance Institute, with the State Fund, with all other services. Someone can't get European funds without paying their health insurance, all kinds of taxes. This thing needs to be introduced as a requirement. We from the Patriotic Front will keep Bulgaria finally in order to have a bright business. At a meeting with Minister Taneva, we put the sick question to the Bulgarian farmers who deal with greenhouse production. This can be done in the regulations to refine the requirement of this the smallest area to be subsidized, of 5 acres, to include not only greenhouse, but also growing vegetables in the open so that they can meet the standards and receive the corresponding subsidies on their closed areas. It is true that our farmers must be stimulated, united, but this is an extremely difficult problem, fellow Members, because we Bulgarians, in our genetic code, are at stake not being able to unite. We show this all over the world where we've been. The Bulgarians cannot unite with each other. This is a big problem, unlike our countrymen ethnic Turks, who have exactly the opposite property that unite, who work in teams. And we need to keep that in mind in the regulations we set out to be aware that very difficult to unite. Can you imagine for seven years...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u13	Discussion at first reading bill, Mr. Petrov, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u14	That's a good point. You've brought me back to the subject very well.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u15	It's good to be back in it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u16	The last thing I want to pay attention to is that in this law we can find some weaknesses that are related to the other law on land use. Once we vote on this Law, and once the conditions are in place for people without animals to be able to use European funds, then the other law will come, with which they will now have the right as users to want to use measures, to use grazing, to use meadows. I don't know what we're gonna do. That's why I'm paying attention to this. I, and in a private conversation with Deputy Minister Grudev, mentioned this fear of mine. That concludes my statement. I hope it was the shortest of all the previous ones. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u17	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. - What's the line? I won't. Dear colleagues, a sad message: President Zhelyu Zhelev has left us, whose government activities will always be linked to the beginning of democratic processes in Bulgaria. He was a model for civil and intellectual dignity, uncompromisingly devoted to freedom and democracy. Zhelyu Zhelev's contribution to democratic progress and Bulgaria's European path will always be remembered and respected by our society. Let us, in a minute's silence, honor President Zhelyu Zhelev's memory. [[All rise in one minute silence.]] An application for a statement has made Mr. Gunay Hewesmen, MP, non-member of a parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr Hughesman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u18	Madam President, honourable Members, this is the first time I have spoken from this tribune. I would like to take account of the Law on the Use of Agricultural Land in the following aspect. I am a living participant in the agricultural reform of Bulgaria and I dare say that in all these 20 years Bulgaria has become a developed agricultural country, despite all our problems that we have and will have them. I will not speak to complete my time, I will be specific about Chapter Four, where I will make an additional proposal for changes between first and second readings. I would like to pay particular attention to the ruling colleagues to be careful because in art. 38b is in the direct payment scheme that no payments are made to inactive farmers. Dear colleagues, I will give an example with Mrs. Nergull of the village of Burdokawa, who works in half a state in the town hall of Burdokawa. This woman's working 15 acres okra. Who has worked okra knows how hard it is and how much manual labor is spent in this production. This woman under this regulation will be an inactive farmer and will not receive these famous 27 BGN because she is not registered as a farmer. What you're aiming for may be for the best. Perhaps in this draft order it is intended to cause all people who work land to register as farmers and pay the state's contributions. There's another thing about this thing maybe it's aimed, there are doctors who have 200, 300 and 500 acres of their own land that sow it or don't sow it, shape it and collect money. The Draft Law itself, colleagues, is very correct, there are many true things, especially with regard to livestock farmers, many good things. However, this Law will move not the small producer, but the most working person who uses manual labor for every production on these 15 acres to give up this production. Because if he goes to prove that he is some producer in order to obtain a subsidy, he will have to prove by some regulation, he will go to the State Fund to issue certificates, at some point he will have to pay more money than he has to receive for these notorious 15 acres of land. I ask my fellow Members to pay attention in this regard to not stopping these small farmers from processing their land. Because they will really give up and this will pour water into the larger tenants, the larger farmers of agricultural land. By the way, this is a very good thing for Bulgaria, because we see in the fields of our country the most wonderful machines. We see on the roads of Bulgaria the best world technology. Bulgaria, colleagues, we should finally admit that it is an advanced agricultural country. We have to admit that once and for all. Moreover, once we are advanced thanks to the European Union, thanks to Brussels, we must do everything possible and the impossible not to stop Bulgaria's future in the agricultural sector, because some points in this bill will really put a finger on Bulgaria's development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u19	Thank you, dear Mr Hughesman. For the first time, you've done well. [[Radio.]] Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of Parliament, the Law amending the Law on Supporting Farmers is another law on amendment, which is supported by a full majority of the Committee on Agriculture, which speaks in itself, that this is a good law with a correct philosophy. Therefore, the GERB Parliamentary Group will support it and I call on all MPs to do so. It is a law which simplifies direct payment schemes which are absolutely synchronized with the regulations of the European Commission, which eases bureaucratic and administrative burdens, and which will try to solve a major deficit in our society, namely the deficit of justice. This is a law which will help small farmers to reach European Union funds more easily. We all know that so far, most of the support was going to a small number of people. We think there will be a wider plane of justice in this way. I'm not gonna waste any more time because it's progressing. I assume you'll all support the law. Between first and second reading there were indeed many meaningful proposals made by our colleagues. We will listen to them, try to refine the texts so that we can really make a very good law to benefit from a wide range of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Zhelev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Deputy Minister Grudev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I cannot hide my satisfaction with the fact that the Amending and Supplementing Act to the Agricultural Aid Act meets broad support from both the Committee on Agriculture and Food and the MPs who have spoken. I just want to make a few brief details. First, this is a consensus law, which is being worked on since 1 July 2011. The moment when the European Commission published the first versions of the aid regulations on the new common agricultural policy. The law, namely on the many schemes and measures proposed to support agriculture during this programming period, is being worked within several years. What are we after? This law is framework and governs the main issues related to the implementation of direct payments schemes; secondly the institutions in Bulgaria, which are authorized to implement these measures. Legal grounds for issuing regulations under the schemes and measures included in the common agricultural policy shall be established. You know that a reform of this common agricultural policy has been carried out within the European Union, which requires the introduction of changes and the implementation of this multi-layered structure of direct payments in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2015 - 2020. The result of the analyses carried out and the policies proposed by us for the development of the sector....................... are reflected precisely in the support schemes proposed by us. The amendments to the law will have to be carried out for the following specific reasons. Firstly, the new direct payment schemes in the country will be implemented taking into account the country's common obligations under Regulation 1307/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and, of course, reflecting to the maximum extent national and agricultural priorities. You know that in 2014 a new programming period has also started for the Rural Development Policy, which requires supplementing the Agricultural Support Act and including provisions regulating the procedure for the preparation, approval and implementation of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020. In accordance with the requirements of European Union legislation, it must be arranged to establish a system of advice in agriculture, which includes the National Agriculture Council Office and, of course, distinguishes persons working in the National Service. I would like to draw attention, as there have been concerns about the activities of the National Agriculture Council Office several times in the stands, yes, we must admit that it is not functioning at the necessary level at this time and is not ready to give adequate support to our farmers. It is for this reason that, in addition to finding its place in the law, we also create a register of individuals who work at the National Agriculture Council Office, who, by listing in this register, will be moved to improve their professional qualifications. This is the reason why texts are written in the law, such as a person employed in the National Agriculture Council Office. The amendment and the supplement of the law has several objectives. First of all, the introduction of schemes, requirements and specific national solutions for direct payments to support the development of the sector................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There is no way to escape from the main objective of a fairer and better direction of payments by applying policy instruments, such as the use of the redistributive payment scheme, the introduction of a progressive reduction for payments, this is the so-called payment rate, and the use of the definition of a active farmer. Supporting vulnerable and priority sectors and generating greater added value for agriculture through the implementation of production-related direct support schemes is precisely the heart, the key to implementing national policy in the Simplifying requirements and reaching support to more farmers by continuing the implementation of the single area payment scheme by 2020, as well as reducing the minimum threshold for support and fixing it to 0,5 hectares for all areas. You know, at the moment, that threshold was 10 acres. Improving the age structure of agricultural workers through the implementation of a payment scheme for young farmers, which I would like to point out, is separate and unrelated to the support measure for young farmers under the Rural Development Programme. Enhancing the contribution of agriculture to maintaining the ecological balance in Bulgaria by applying payment to farmers who comply with agricultural practices favorable to the climate and the environment. Establishment of a regulated line for the preparation, approval and implementation of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020. Establishment of agricultural advice systems in accordance with current European legislation. Reduction of administrative burden and administrative costs in the implementation of support schemes and measures. Timely provision of clear and maximum simplified legislation available to farmers. These are the main objectives of the law. I sincerely hope that they will receive your approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u23	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act, No 502-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 January 2015. They voted 101 MPs: for 100, against 1, no abstentions. The bill was passed in the first vote. Here you go, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal that the deadline for submission of proposals between the first and second votes be reduced from 7 to 3 days. Mrs. Ahmedova, you have justified in your statement that important regulations are to be adopted by 1 March. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to vote on this procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u25	A reverse opinion? Here you are, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making this reverse proposal because within 3 days of quality proposals between first and second reading, the precision of all the terms, paragraphs and points do not expect this to happen. Yeah, that's right, we're on the clock. I would even like to say it in the Commission, extending the deadline, and you want to reduce it to 3 days. It's just unreasonable, because we're gonna do something that's full of mistakes, and we're still gonna have to fix it. Let us at least make the proposals within 7 days and make them quality. It's in line with the government's quality law program.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u27	I put to the vote the proposal made by the National Representative Rumen Hristov on the basis he has given you heard the reasons of Mrs. Ahmedova as well. They voted 105 MPs: 74, against 29, abstention 2. The proposal to shorten the deadline has been accepted. Come in, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u28	Dear colleagues, I ask you for reason. Once we find consensus, please don't spoil it, because the First Reading Bill in the Commission...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u29	Mrs. Ahmedova, please don't come to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u30	No, I'm not speaking to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u31	You want a re-voting procedure, and someone shouldn't have been able to vote. There's no point in putting up any further arguments or the same arguments you said.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u32	The bill in the Commission was tabled on Friday, on Tuesday we had an extraordinary meeting, today we vote in three days, these are Saturday, Sunday, Monday, but this is not going to happen, colleagues. Something bad is gonna happen again. Please don't spoil the good work! Revoting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u33	It's a re-vote. Vote 118 MPs: for 85, against 31, abstention 2. The proposal to shorten the deadline has been accepted. Now we move on to the next item on our agenda, and it is: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON AWAKE LAW AND HIS Related RIGHTS. Importer is the Council of Ministers, on 30 December 2014. Before the President of the Commission Mrs. Karastoyanova moves to the stands, let me inform you that our guests on the balcony are young people from the town of Plovdiv. [[Applause.]] You have the floor, Ms. Karastoyanova, for the report of the Committee on Culture and Media.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Mr. Boyl Banov to be admitted to the Chamber. Mr. Georgi Damyanov is the Deputy Minister of Culture and Mr. Georgi Damyanov is the Director of the Department of Copyright and his related rights in the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u35	Honourable Members, please vote on admission to the Chamber of the persons designated by Mrs Karastoyanova. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The proposal is adopted unanimously..........................invite the persons in the Chamber. Mrs. Karastoyanova, you have the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 402-01-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2014. The Committee on Culture and Media at a regular meeting held on 22 January 2015 discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 402-01-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2014. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Culture: Boil Banov "Deputy Minister," and Georgi Damyanov "Director of the Department of Copyright and Related Rights" and representatives of the Association of Bulgarian Radio and Television Operators, the Bulgarian Association of Cable Communication Operators, the European Agency for the Protection of Performing, Producer and Copyright, Musicator, Philmautor. The bill was presented by Mr. Boyl Banov. The Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act aims to introduce the requirements of Directive 2012/28/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on certain authorised uses of orphan works. The Directive should have been transposed by 29 October 2014. Although a similar bill was approved by the Council of Ministers in May 2014 and submitted to the 40th National Assembly, it is not included in its agenda. The delay shall lead to the initiation of infringement procedure No 2014/0496 under art. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In recent years, public libraries, archives, educational institutions, museums and institutions holding a film or recording heritage, as well as public radio and television organisations have taken action to digitise their collections and archives in order to preserve and access them to a wide range of individuals. Their collections shall keep a large number of works and recordings which are unknown to the holders of rights or where their location is. The traditional approach to the consent of the legal carrier concerned is not applicable and its compliance would constitute an obstacle to the preservation and dissemination of European and national cultural heritage, the creation of European and national digital libraries, as well as to the promotion of the free movement of knowledge and innovation. In relation to these circumstances, the European Directive has been adopted and this bill has been developed. The proposal for the creation of a new Section VIII in the Copyright and Related Rights Act introduces and defines the concept of................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The order in which they can be used by public institutions by public radio and television organisations shall be determined. The possibility for a protected object to be considered as an osirotal shall be preceded by a duly documented thorough search carried out on the basis of a list of sources drawn up by the Minister of Culture, in agreement with the associations of carriers and users. In the event that one of the authors is subsequently discovered, an opportunity to terminate the status of an orphaned work is provided for him. Information on sites that have received orphan status, organisations that have implemented it, etc., will be documented in a public database established and maintained by the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market (Trade Marks, Designs and Models), in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 386/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 April 2012. 14 opinions have been received in the Committee on Culture and Media by institutions and organizations, expressing support for the so submitted bill, proposals for corrections and editorials, as well as proposals for amendment and supplement of the Copyright and Related Rights Act. During the discussion the MPs united around the need for the rapid adoption of the bill with a view to the initiated infringement procedure. Following the debates held, the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously proposed to the National Assembly with 14 votes to support the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 402-01-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u37	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karastoyanova. With the report of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds you will be acquainted with its President, the national representative Svetlin Tanchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! At a meeting held on 20 January 2015, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting of the Commission was attended by Mr. Boyl Banov. Deputy Minister of Culture and Mr. Georgi Damyanov Director of the Department of Authorial Law and his related rights in the Ministry of Culture. This Bill aims to introduce in national law the requirements of Directive 2012/28/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on certain authorised uses of orphan works. The directive should have been transposed into national law until 29 October 2014, in which a similar bill was approved by the Council of Ministers by Decision No 296 of 14 May 2014 and submitted to the Forty-second National Assembly, but was not included on its agenda. At present, the European Commission has launched infringement procedure No 2014/0496 under art. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The proposed amendments provide for the creation of a new Section VIII (Art. 71b to 71h) in the Copyright and Related Rights Act. The new regulations introduce and define the concept of........................................................................................................ 71c) and define the order in which they can be used by public institutions. 71b, 71d-d). The capital of an orphan works or recording will be applied only in cases where, following a thorough search in sources of information established by the Minister of Culture (in this connection, the creation of an Annex to art. 71d, para. 2 where the circle of sources is determined) and after consultation with the legal agents and users it is established that none of the holders of rights on the specific site is known or, if known, the place of birth is unknown. The use of orphan works or recordings is intended only to affect digitalisation actions and to provide access by publicly accessible libraries, educational institutions, museums, public radios and televisions (Art. 71g). The information on sites receiving the status of an orphan works will be kept by the Office for Harmonisation of the Internal Market in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 386/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 April 2012. In view of the above, and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposed unanimously (with 15 votes for the Council) that the National Assembly should adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 402-01-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2014 and thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanchev. On behalf of the importer, do you wish to take an attitude? No. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you are, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u40	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Because of the very short time we have until the end of the meeting, but also the need to adopt this Bill today, supported by two committees on culture and media and in forty-two, and in the forty-third National Assembly, I asked only to say that in the period when the Draft was prepared, many proposals were received from collective management organisations which are related precisely to the Copyright and Related Rights Act and the application of this European directive. Many of the proposals available to the Committee on Culture and Media have not been fully agreed during the period during which the Bill was discussed. However, I think it is necessary to draw attention to these proposals in relation to the fact that there is already another new European directive, which is No 214/26/EU, concerning precisely the problems relating to collective management of copyrights and related rights. The deadline for implementing this Directive is 10 April 2016, and its content concerns the essence of most of the proposals made by collective management organisations. In this sense, I think that we should not be late, as it has happened now, that Bulgaria is facing the danger of criminal proceedings, that it is good to create a working group with the Ministry of Culture, which will summarize these proposals and, through the Committee on Culture and Media, to submit them to the National Assembly, in order to be able to synchronise Bulgarian legislation and the new directive of the European Union by the end of 2015. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 402-01-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2014. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The bill was adopted unanimously in the first vote. Ms. Karastoyanova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose a reduction of the deadline for submitting proposals on the newly voted bill from 7 to 3 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Karastoyanova. A reverse opinion? I won't. Please vote on Ms. Karastoyanova's proposal on her grounds. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The proposal to shorten the deadline has been accepted. Moving on to the next item on today's agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE PRE-SCHOOL AND SCHOOL-SCHOOL-SCHOOL-SCHOOL-SHIPPERS: Milena Damyanova and a group of Members of the National Assembly; AND THE LAW FOR THE PEOPLE'S PROECTION "SHORTS": Valeri Zhablyanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly. Here you are, Mrs. Damyanova, to read the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u44	There's no time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u45	After the report, there will be a break.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a bill for pre-school and school education, No 454-01-51, submitted by the National Representative Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs on 21 November 2014. At its regular meeting held on 17 December, In 2014, the Committee on Education and Science examined the Pre-school and School Education Bill, No 454-01-51, submitted by the National Representative Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs on 21 November 2014. The meeting was attended by: Prof. Minister of Education and Science, Vanya Kastreva, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Konstantin Penchev, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, Ognian Stoichkov, Chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Children's Affairs, Youth and Sports at the 41st National Assembly, representatives of trade union and employers' organizations from the National Education system, representatives of NGOs, principals of schools and kindergartens, teachers and other pedagogical specialists. The Committee on Education and Science has received opinions on the Draft Law on pre-school and school education by the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Culture, the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Syndicate of Bulgarian Teachers, Syndicate Education to the State Department of Agriculture and Food, the Union of Employers in the System of National Education, the Association of Directors in Secondary Education, UNICEF Bulgaria, national representative and non-governmental organizations, all supporting the Law in principle. Some of the opinions also contain suggestions for its improvement. On behalf of the importers, the draft Law on pre-school and school education was presented by the National Representative Cornelia Marinova. It was underlined that it was developed on the basis of an in-depth analysis of the current legal basis and of the good practices of European legislation in the field of education. Representatives of the entire pedagogical community took part in the preparation work and the Bill has their principled support. It has been discussed for a period of two years, including some of the more than three thousand proposals received. The draft law provides for the establishment of a clearer and working framework by adopting state educational standards, ensuring transparency and predictability of the measures taken in the system. Conditions are created for integrated policies through educational programmes involving health, social and other socially important aspects of education; decentralisation; prevention of early dropouts; reduction of low functional literacy; support for children, teachers and parents. The bill focuses on the competences that children acquire in school and their commitment to the National Qualification Framework. A new educational structure is introduced in the system of school education in order of clarity and order. The main educational degree with two stages: primary (I................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The two stages in the average degree of education provide vertical and horizontal passability in the system; the possibility of changing choice; pre-university training; closely profiled and vocational education in the last two years. Dividing the average level into two stages will improve the relationship between secondary and higher education, on the one hand, as well as the relationship between secondary education and the labour market, on the other. In the second high school stage will also take place dual training in vocational schools. The status of schools of national importance and the status of an innovative school is introduced. It is also proposed that the creation of a new kind of school, united (from I to X Class), which will allow students from small settlements or those whose families are in a difficult financial condition to have the opportunity to complete their first high school stage in their birthplace. These schools can also provide professional training, so students will acquire qualification by part of a profession, and for professions with I-a degree of professional qualification and professional qualification. A policy is envisaged to preserve protected schools. Pre-school education is presented as fundamental in order to reduce the rate of early school leaving and break the vicious circle of low achievements, loss of interest and social exclusion of children and students. An integral part of the right to education is the inclusive education. The support for the personal development of children and students. Additional support for children with special educational needs is also envisaged. Logopedi, psychologists, resource teachers, social workers will be on site in the school and kindergarten. Forms of training are optimized with the proposed new form of independent form of training. In order to create conditions for effective interaction and for active democratic functioning communities, a public council shall be established at each school and kindergarten. The public council will be the body for the development of the educational institution and for civil control of its governance. The evaluation at school is placed at a qualitatively new level as a tool for the diagnosis of children's progress and their needs. An internal quality management system for education is in place. The need for external quality assessment implies the establishment of a National Inspectorate of Education in Bulgaria, which is laid down in the Bill. A compulsory qualification and attestation of directors, teachers and other pedagogical specialists is introduced as a means of improving the quality of education. With regard to financing, the Bill permanently regulates the financing model, the basis of which is the decentralisation of funding to school level. The funding from the state budget of children and students who are trained in private kindergartens and private schools will lead to an extension of access to education and increase competition between educational institutions. The bill ensures the autonomy of schools with regard to the development of curricula for the expanded and additional preparation. In this way, the school is free to determine the goals and results at school level based on the needs and interests of the students. In order to prevent early school drop-out and to promote lifelong learning, validation of competences acquired through informal training and informative learning of students shall be introduced. The following discussion was attended by the Minister of Education and Science. Todor Tanev, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Konstantin Penchev, Chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Issues of Children, Youth and Sports at the 41st National Assembly Mr. Ognian Stoichkov, MPs, representatives of trade union, employers' and NGOs. Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev said that the Ministry of Education and Science supports the Bill proposed by the National Representative Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs, as it meets the policy parameters of the Ministry, as it bears the basis of the necessary reforms, creates an opportunity to advance and cut off opportunities for retrograde thinking and standing in one foundation; creates an opportunity for development in the 21st century, takes into account many of the requirements of today's time. The President of the Committee on Education, Science and Issues of Children, Youth and Sports in the 41st National Assembly Mr. Ognian Stoichkov stressed that he accepted the invitation to participate in the Commission meeting as a sign of respect for the work of all Members of the 41st National Assembly in the Educational Committee on this Law and this report, which actually reached the plenary at second reading. He expressed his opinion that it is high time for Bulgarian education not to repair its old law over 25 repairs are sufficient. It is time for a new law which introduces into what is relevant to the 21st century, not the last century, which talked about the Law on People's Education. All the speeches highlighted the undisputed need for a new Preschool and School Education Act, which should not have political decoration. The bill presents the vision of how Bulgarian education should be modernised and what conditions are needed in order to create an environment in which children can grow free, knowledgeable and able. Education should aim and ensure that every child learns basic skills for life and that he will not leave school without being prepared for the challenges he will face. The legislative framework was supported, which reverses the focus of Bulgarian education from reproductive reproduction of the study material to mastering competences, which will make Bulgarian students more successful people. An important focus in the project is support for the personal development of children and students. Members of the National Assembly agreed on the opinion that the draft presents the interests of all countries involved in the educational process - students, parents and teachers. Constitution of public councils is a step in the direction of real participation of parents in the management of the school and real participation in the development of the school's policies. The introduction of inclusive education and measures for children with special educational needs in general education schools was supported, which will implement the conclusions and recommendations made by the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child to Bulgaria. Ms. Veska Sabeva Vice-President of the National Council for the Integration of Disabled People to the Council of Ministers and Chairman of the Association of Parents of Children with Epilepsy stressed that the national representative organizations that represent 186 thousand in Bulgaria. Members, in principle, support the Law, which is made by many NGOs in the 41st National Assembly. She noted that the service should follow the child and not the child to go to the service. This is a huge mistake that is currently being made in terms of resource support at school and not just at school. This is what happens with the other services - we make the child go to different places in order to use the service that is rightfully given to him. The texts which are related to providing an opportunity for training in independent form and also to the texts on validation of knowledge, class and stage of the education system were also supported. The proposal was approved to provide library and information services to students in the school and recommended that the standards for this service will be in line with UNESCO standards. National Representative Lutvi Mestan expressed his opinion that no reform of the system of pre-school and school education could be carried out if the fundamental issue, namely the unit of time, the assessment of the entrance and exit, was not resolved. Some MPs disagreed with the proposal for public funding of private schools and private kindergartens. After the discussion was concluded and the vote was held with results: 13 votes for.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u47	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. The other reports will be brought to the attention of Members of Parliament in subsequent plenary sessions. I'm calling a break. At 11:00 we continue with parliamentary control. First will answer the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova to a question of the MP Boris Yachev. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u48	Honourable Members of Parliament, the sitting shall continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Before that, a message. Due to a sudden urgent commitment the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will participate in the parliamentary control meeting after answering questions and questions of the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev. [[Heckling]] I'll explain to you what the sudden urgent commitment is. New questions for the period 23 January 2015 to 29 January 2015. A question was received from the MPs Maya Manolova and Dragomir Stoynev to Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration, concerning the government's personnel policy. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 6 February 2015. Written answers for service. Written response from: - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the MPs Hristo Gazhev, Valentin Radev and Plamen Manushev; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Emil Raynov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Emil Raynov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Valentin Nikolov Ivanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Valentin Nikolov Ivanov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Valentin Nikolov Ivanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Vasil Antonov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Ivan Stankov; - Minister of Interior Veselin Vuchkov on a question from the National Representative Mustafa Karadayi; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov on a question from the National Representative Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov on a question from the National Representative Valentin Kasabov. There is a request from Mr. Rosen Petrov for a declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. [[The National Representative Boris Stanimirov also wants the floor on behalf of a parliamentary group.]] All right, all of them. I've been left with a request in writing before the hearing began. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u49	I won't be long not to take up parliamentary control time. Madam President, from the Bulgarian Democratic Center we offer our sincere condolences for the loss of human beings and politics - President Zhelyo Zhelev. For us, I suppose, and for most of you, he will always remain a figure leading in the imposition of democratic values. President Zhelev was one of the few politicians who had never been accused of corruption, of something unclean, of something dirty. Because I had the honor of knowing him personally, I think he really kept his name clean and unblemished in his work as both president and former president. He was always on the side of the people, the side of democracy and the protection of human rights. We all remember his book, which was a vivid proof of how much dictatorships resemble each other, no matter what ideology they profess. Unfortunately, at the moment we do not see a public and political environment where statesmen like President Zhelev can be created. I think that what he has bequeathed to us should lead to all parties who want to follow the path of democracy, not dictatorship, the path of the compound, not division and hatred, and, in general, the path of European values that we have been arguing about so many times in this Parliament. Unfortunately, we Bulgarians often pay tribute to one person only after we lose him. Today we lost the patron of Bulgarian democracy. His eternal memory!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u50	The request for a declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Centre was made in writing before the beginning of the meeting. There is a request from several parliamentary groups. The only criterion by which the word is to be given in time is the size of the parliamentary groups. I don't see a request from GERB. On behalf of the BSP left Bulgaria Mr. Boris Stanimirov from the Reformation Block. Mr. Siderov from the Party of Ataka. So far, these are the requests for declarations. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The big news from the program of the quadruple coalition is one. There will be no reforms. The government with reform claims and with a request for a full mandate showed a lack of vision of what long-term goals it wants to achieve. Not to mention drawing up a further strategy for the country in a very dynamic time of economic and geopolitical changes. Oresharski's government fell out of power in the following paradox, it stabilized the economy, but did not survive politically. The cabinet Borisov 2 also exists in the paradox it is anchored, but the risks to the economy are growing. The reason the unstable construction of this power gave birth to a document that does not draw visions and gives up reforms to protect its selfishly fragile stability. This is the weakest management program available in the last 20 years. The most unsuccessful are the proposals in the economy and public finances the sectors in which a clear vision is needed to become the driver of social reform, health reform and education. The program is a mechanical compilation of measures and actions made by officials. Of these priorities in the economic area, 75% are quoted as saying: "Conservation of the laws" and "harmonisation with European regulations." A significant part of the measures envisaged are ongoing tasks which ministries and administrative units by law have to perform. Over 10% of the measures are the preparation of analyses and writing new strategies. The so-called "reforms' are too limited, vague as a goal, necessary resources and effects. They do not solve any of the problems of the economy. The program shows a lack of recognition of the Bulgarian economy. The copying of European initiatives does not make it work, but talks about the idea of weakness and imitation. Economic growth is not raised as a major priority, no measures are envisaged to encourage it. There is no clear commitment to joining the Bank Union, but vague phrases about a political solution. There is neither commitment nor deadlines for joining the Currency Mechanism 2. In this regard, this document is a retreat from the previous program of GERB. The government programme lacks a word about the most painful topics of small and medium-sized enterprises, Bulgarian producers and consumers, namely the promotion of competition, the fight against monopolies and the abuse of a dominant position on the market. Despite the spells that will help small and medium-sized companies, the main victim of this government's policy will be them. The weakest part of the programme is in the field of investment. It creates legal, tax and economic uncertainty in investors. He tells them that he will reform taxes and revise the incentives for investment, without making it clear why and in what direction. We encourage the authors of the program to continue to learn on the topic of reindustrialization. They finally understood that reindustrialization is an objective necessity, but not because they have analyzed the Bulgarian economy and understood its problems, but because they have accidentally familiarized themselves with the European Commission's initiatives in this area. And since they do not dare to admit their mistake, but also to please the European Commission, they have written................................................................................................. Only with common wishes from European initiatives, however, it is not possible to revive the Bulgarian industry. However, copy Pasteur's approach to the program is not harmless. There are serious risks in it. Thirteen main... the risk in the program of the quadruple coalition First Risk: The priority is the preservation of public debt within, notice, the Maastricht criteria of 60%. As is known, Bulgaria is a country with low public debt and this is not only a major advantage of the country, but also a policy led by six successive governments, which is extremely important for maintaining the Currency Board. The government seems to be walking towards this threshold of 60%. External debt unprecedentedly increased from 19.7 percent in 2014 with a forecast, ladies and gentlemen, for 30% at the end of 2015. For the first time since the introduction of the Currency Board, Bulgarian government has set such a non-ambitious goal in terms of debt. Second risk: Especially disturbing is the absence among the government's priorities of such important topics as the fight against crimes that damage the state budget, such as smuggling and VAT frauds, crimes related to unfair competition against Bulgarian producers. Terry risk: Budget revenues are at risk as the government relies solely on increased excise rates for cigarettes, without new, consistent measures to combat tax fraud, despite the size of the grey economy and the damage it is causing. The vulnerability of the budget from the dynamics of indirect taxes remains and this does not in any way guarantee the financial stability of the country. Fourth risk: The announcement of a new tax reform is also frightening without even a hint of the purpose and direction of this reform. This is a very dangerous message that the program sends to investors. 5th Risk: What lies behind the application "We will restructure eight state-owned companies." Most likely another attempt to privatize strategic state assets and not a word to improve their governance. Sixth risk: The authors of the program have not paid attention to the fundamental issue of the share of final consumption in the formation of gross domestic product. In Bulgaria in the last 10 years this share is 65-70%. In other words, if the goal is to increase the country's gross domestic product, this is the first indicator to be explored. Increasing consumption is a mandatory condition for improving the standard of living, stimulating investment, a higher level of absorption of EU funds, etc. Consumption is directly dependent on the household's available income. Increasing the effectiveness of regulators' activities, releasing household resources and accordingly increasing entrepreneurship and the standard of living has not been considered as a measure in the programme, although this is precisely the basis for achieving each of the objectives described therein. Seventh risk: A programme has no macroeconomic dimension where are the programmed growth rates, how poverty and social inequality are overcome, what measures are taken to depopulation and reduce regional differences, does the government intend to fight unemployment and create new jobs, where are the policies for science and development? Eighth risk: No clear policies on employment, income, combating poverty, the demographic crisis, social assistance have been formulated, there is no clear logic and ideas for positive changes. The funds for employment policies, people with disabilities, social inclusion and social protection do not change. 14 social payments are frozen for the benefit of mothers, children, people with disabilities, and this will continue, notice, until the distant 2017. Ninth risk: There are no clear and concrete measures to tackle refugee crisis problems and tackle refugee immigration problems. 10th risk: At a time of significant geopolitical changes and dynamic processes within the European Union itself, the programme of the cabinet Borisov 2 is completely amputated by the protection of the national interest and suggests an obvious imbalance in foreign policy, especially with regard to Russia. Moreover, Deputy Prime Minister Rumyana Bachvarova said I quote what Rumyana Bachvarova said: "Let's not forget that Borisov is a prime minister who stopped three major Russian projects. This seems to somehow remain in the shadows of one pipeline, one pipeline and one nuclear project. This is an extremely strong political action and behaviour, which can be appreciated by our partners. I believe that the subject of the three projects is closed and it is clear who closed them. But something more important in view of the dynamics we from BSP left Bulgaria....................................... the Bulgarian government to confirm the position of the previous government that Bulgaria will not participate with armed forces in the conflict in Eastern Ukraine. Together, we expect the Bulgarian government to say that it will not allow the Bulgarian territory to be used as a platform for fighting against Russia. We demand an immediate response to whether the Bulgarian government has consented to permanent deployment of not heavy weapons and equipment on Bulgarian territory. 11th Risk: The program creates another chaos in the system of education and will lead to a new decline in the quality of human capital and science in Bulgaria. Twelveth risk: The programme does not show the objectives, methods, forms and ways for the realization of the declared health reform. Thirteenth risk: GERB and its supporting coalition partners do not even report the imminent danger of severe spirituality. There is not a single number or specific commitment in their entire project. We point out these risks, ladies and gentlemen, not to criticize in vain. They can be avoided. We call on the government to submit its debate programme to Parliament, as we have done. The constructive discussion for us is possible, for the country and the economy is mandatory. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u52	Thank you. On behalf of the Reformation Bloc, Mr. Boris Stanimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u53	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! It was 70 years since the night of February 1, 1945, when dozens of representatives of the Bulgarian political, state and military elite were shot in Sofia. The murder was committed by activists of the Bulgarian Workers' Party (Communists), after sentences by I and II of the so-called People's Court earlier that day. The convicts were shot one by one, and their bodies were dumped in an air-bombed pit in the central Sofia cemetery. In these creepy events are found their deaths 67 MPs from the twenty-fifth ordinary folk assembly.. 22 ministers... the three regents of the kingdom of Bulgaria, 8 royal councillors, 47 generals and senior officers of the Bulgarian Army, including the commanders of all families of troops and the main military formations. Sentences were revoked in 1996 by two Supreme Court judgments, and the convicted were rehabilitated. The Communist regime was declared criminal by Law of the Thirty-eighth National Assembly in 2000, by Resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of 2006, by Resolution of the European Parliament of 2008 and by a number of other international legal acts. Here is the place to mark the role of our late President Zhelev, who initiated February 1st to be celebrated as the Day of Bulgarian Victims of the Communist regime. The mass murder on the night of February 1, 1945 was one of the most violent crimes of communist terror. In addition to the deprivation of life of a large part of the Bulgarian state elite, the murder of 67 MPs, in the way they voted in this House, represents a severe political repression against the principles of parliamentaryism and the right of MPs to make decisions freely and conscientiously. Today, when totalitarian ideologies are raising their heads in European societies, we, as MPs, are more than ever obliged to recall the tragic lessons of the recent past and to keep alive the memory of our colleagues and predecessors from the twenty-fifth ordinary national assembly, whose banks we stand at. We must prove by our actions that their death was not in vain and ensure that such inhuman crimes will not be repeated. May God forgive them and forever be their memory!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u54	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Siderov, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, my speech is beyond the subject which is related to dates and anniversaries, but I cannot help but say two words to the speaker who was before me, a representative of the so-called right-wing formation. Because all those people that are being talked about were part of the Hitlerist coalition, and your beloved United States and England were on the other side as well as Russia. So we must be historically correct when we recall events. That's all I'm gonna say. My speech is related to a speech by Prime Minister Borisov, which was made on January 20th at a business forum only 10 days ago. As you know, there is no business in Bulgaria, but forums are made in Sheraton. There was a representative, luxurious business forum and the Prime Minister made a speech on it, which is great because I always follow the speeches of our Prime Minister. I see that the media are following them very closely, and even every single word of his from Facebook is immediately taking it out and presenting it to the general public. However, in this case, I would like to make a huge media gap, because this speech of the Prime Minister was left undisclosed. What's this about? Mr. Prime Minister told the business forum in Sheraton on January 20th that 27 billion had expired from Bulgaria. $10 dollars in the last ten years. It's leaked money through so-called investors. According to the prime minister, over profitable investments in Bulgaria are allowed, which another country does not allow them. I quote what he said: If we had a problem with Russian investors, we would easily solve them, but what if these investors were from the European state or from the United States. Apparently, here the writer is already thinking, the prime minister was referring to US investments in the Maritsa East, where under a contract concluded by the government of Ivan Kostov, the state pays prices for electricity much higher than the national average. I congratulate the Prime Minister on this speech, I congratulate him on the fact that he has obviously made reference to this book. [[shows book]] It's the Siderov Plan. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB. A round of applause by Ataka. Revelations: "Bravo! "]] Since this text I have written with these two hands, I will immediately quote you from where exactly the Prime Minister made his reference. Page 8 of the Plan Siderov versus colonial slavery......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... More. 2013 we pulled it out and participated with it in the elections successfully and also in 2014. On page eight, what does it say? It is said that in the cases of foreign companies the Bulgarians left for food, clothes, gasoline, electricity and bank services 28 billion. The Commission therefore concludes A very close figure to that, close to what the prime minister quoted, of 27 billion. the dollar, however, and this is only for 2011. Here I will give some other data that in the following business forums the prime minister can use them most calmly and also win our admiration. [[Applause by "Attacka."]] For the period 2008 - 2012 foreign banks in Bulgaria have collected, ladies and gentlemen, only from fees 4 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible That's when you pay to move some money from here, not from interest, just from fees of $4 billion. The Commission therefore concludes On top of that, both this government and the previous government decided, as well as the National Assembly in the face of their majority, to borrow more than three billion to save a bank. As I say to you, the banks have only earned four billion and a beak from taxicabs, from fees that grandparents pay to get their pension. Adding gold mining the famous company "Dundee Precious Metals" which I will now tell you how pumped from Bulgaria. Each year, only Chelopech exported 100 tonnes of gold for the last 10 years, worth about 8 billion. The dollar. And the biggest company, with the biggest profit in Bulgaria, I don't know if you know who it is. This is the company that exploits the former Meadow Coin. The annual revenues of the "Aurubis" amounted to 4 billion. The dollar! This is what we have been talking about for years, so I've been pleading for years. This is called colonisation when you pump the resources of a country when you take huge profits from it, and at the same time the population there lives miserable and lives nine, ten times as it is written here in this same book, more miserable and poorer than other European countries. As I said before, I am glad that the Prime Minister has come to this truth. Better late than never! But from there on, what do you do? It's one thing to be an observer, a commentator, and to tell these facts, it's another to be a prime minister and hold the entire executive as is the case. That's why I'm asking the question in absentia to the Prime Minister after he realized that 27 billion. The dollar has been drained from Bulgaria for the past 10 years, through the so-called foreign investors................................................................................................. The other day, I heard he was expressing some dissatisfaction with the Energo-Pro. Well, I've been complaining about this since 2003 since these ERPs became owned by foreign companies. Since 2003, I have not stopped calling: break these contracts, return the energy into Bulgarian hands and stop uploading the price of electricity! The other day, in the Commission, everyone, apart from the attack, voted against putting a moratorium on electricity prices not to increase. DKER's boss, on whom we want the resignation constantly, because she cannot be in this position due to a conflict of interest, also publicly promised two days ago that the current would rise. Then where is the logic of being prime minister and dissatisfaction as if you were a 15-row spectator against Energo-Pro? Get his license! You can do it anytime, anytime, there are plenty of reasons. This is such a thick audit report. [[shows with hand]] I gave to Mr. Borisov, here, to this bank, in the previous term, when he was Prime Minister, and I said to him: "Read this report. You have more than 150 reasons to take CEZ's license, He didn't do it while he was prime minister, he didn't dare, now he's second-time prime minister, he complains, but he doesn't do anything. This gives me reason to think that this government will end up like the previous one. The Prime Minister looks like he sees things, but he doesn't do anything. It's a delusion for people, it's a manipulation for the general public, because she thinks that this person is capable of doing something, but the truth is, if he really is going to do something, then she will only see that she has the courage to deal with other colonists. And as he himself admitted in this statement: "If they were Russian easily, we would have evicted them, so he would have received a pat from the American ambassador. But when they're American, what do you do, how do you kick out American companies that hold Maritsa 1 and 3, which by contract take 18% profit and are paid by the state, we all pay them the electricity 10 times more than the nuclear power plant Kozloduy? How do you get rid of them? He'll call Marcy Reese right away and say, "Hello, what are you doing?" Do you want me to fix you up and take you down? How do you think this job is going to work?......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Do you want pictures of Merkel? There will be no more pictures with Merkel if you keep doing this. This is very sad because it turns out that the Bulgarian Prime Minister, the Foreign Ministry cannot, dare not defend our national interests. And they represent themselves as a government of stable governance, they represent themselves as unalternative, they come out and explain how there is no other way to manage the country and we don't think it can become something like Greece, and God forbid, because it was populism. However, it is not populism to leave 27 billion. The dollar to drain, flow from Bulgaria and then shout: Well, there is no money! That's the reality. We'll fasten our seatbelts. We've been watching this nonsense for many years. On this absurdity, we at Ataka have already spoken. We have a clear conscience because of this plan. [[shows the book "The plan Siderov against colonial slavery"]] Against colonial slavery is the only alternative so far party program proposed on the political stage. Unfortunately! I'm not saying this to point out, it's just reality. This plan is the only way, the only view in which something can change in Bulgaria, i.e. to expel the foreign colonists and the wealth of Bulgaria to be in Bulgarian hands. Then we will see that we can be European by standard state, but not with this government, with this coalition and with these colonial vassals that currently rule Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u56	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. [[National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov wants the floor.]] On behalf of a group?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u57	Procedure in the manner of conduct. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u58	There is no other way I can lead with a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. If you like, on behalf of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u59	Dear Mr. Chairman, you have just allowed violation of the Rules of Procedure by allowing the person Siderov to advertise in front of the cameras of the BNT of his work, which is full of nonsense and I would say bordering on the lie... [[Lowered noise and lines from Ataka.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u60	What is this procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u61	...which you know by the rules is unacceptable. You had to stop this ad immediately, which happened through the cameras of BNT, and you know that the Rules forbid such actions to be carried out. [[Lowered noise and lines from Ataka.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u62	You don't have any reason for what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u63	I'd advise you to react further. [[National Representative Desislav Chukolov wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u64	Mr. President, when you chair the sitting, I ask you to follow the rules. There was a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group and then out of frustration came Bajraktarov here to explain how this was not true and what advertising was done. Is this for sale? This isn't for sale to make a commercial. [[Relations from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] I understand your anger. When you have something, step out on this stand, make a statement from a parliamentary group, develop your ideas.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u65	I hear you, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u66	This is how parliamentaryism in Bulgaria flows. Otherwise, you only show your weaknesses.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u67	I hear you, Mr. Chukolov. Would you like a personal explanation, Mr. Siderov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u68	I'm sorry to have to give a personal explanation to a man I've condemned for slander and abuse of final authority.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u69	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u70	This is not known to the general public, so he uses the fact that he has become a Member of the National Assembly so that he can speak from here what comes to mind. Really, this room is no place to argue, it's a room where there should be a fight of ideas. We don't see here any ideas from the gentleman who came out to replicate our program. Write a program, give your ideas. You agreed with the ruling GERB party, you said that 90% of you are covering for yourself, and that means that you do not have your own programme. Say it clearly, admit it so people understand what coalition and party we're talking about, but you can't make politics with spiteful Mahleni attacks. This cannot be a way to impose yourself in the Bulgarian society, and it is evident by the fact that we already have people coming to us who are tearing up your party's membership books. Disappointed! [[Loud applause by "Attacka"]] Yeah, disappointed, cheated, cheated by you working them on the same TV for four years, throwing lies and slander at them, which is why I'm gonna graduate again, and you got a conviction. Your leader has also been sentenced to a third instance for calling the voters of Ataka and getting what he deserved. I sued him. So be careful what you say, there's justice in everything. [[Loud applause by "Attacka"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u71	Thank you. More speeches in the form of different procedures that shouldn't be made? Since I started once, I gave the opportunity to do such a thing, it's my fault really, I'm sorry. When there is a declaration on behalf of a group, there should not be any procedural explanation. I admit, I made a mistake giving you the floor, Mr. Bayraktarov, and from there you see the snowball as far as it goes. I think we're gonna end this debate style. We're moving on to parliamentary control. The first question is to Minister Nikolina Angelkova, Minister of Tourism, who will answer a question from the National Representative Boris Yachev about the introduction of a Single Tourism Information System. Here you are, Mr. Yachev, so you can develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, on 8 March 2007, a Decree of the Council of Ministers adopted a Regulation on the organisation of the Single Tourism Information System. This Ordinance lays down the terms and conditions for entry, the circumstances to be entered, maintenance, storage and access to information in the National Tourist Register, as well as the collection, processing and storage of statistics on tourism. Here are the data on accommodation funds and accommodation facilities - material base, overnight accommodations, stay duration, accommodation income. The same regulation states that the former Ministry of Economy, Energy and Tourism, as system administrator, is responsible for maintaining and controlling the completeness of the data. In recent years, several attempts have been made to launch the system. Budget 2014 even allocated 2.5 million. lv. for its creation and implementation. However, this never happens. The system has the support of the municipalities, which expect after registration of the nights, that is, after the entry into operation of the System, their revenue from tourist fees to rise many times. According to estimates, the tax losses for the treasury from unaccounted overnights are about 300 million. lv. Annually. For the implementation of the Single Tourism Information System, the security authorities in the country also insist, as well as their partner services from other countries in the European Union, who believe that the system will be an effective tool in combating possible terrorist threats and illegal immigration. This topic is also up-to-date around the influx of foreigners, and threats from the Islamic State. It can be part of the strategy to deal with illegal refugees. In this regard, Madam Minister, my question to you is: what are your intentions for the faster implementation of the Single Tourism Information System (ESTI) and what time limits can it begin to function?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u73	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Minister Angelkova, please respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Yachev! One of the first tasks before the newly created Ministry of Tourism was the work to refine the regulation concerning the organisation of the Single Tourism Information System under the new Tourism Act. It has already passed the necessary conciliation procedure and will be presented next week at a meeting of the Council of Ministers. In parallel, we are working actively on proposals for amendments to the Tourism Act, which will create conditions for ESTI to be built as a single information platform for communication on protected channels between participants in the tourist register and stakeholders from the central and territorial authorities of the executive power. By adopting this legislative measure, the existence of the ESTI will lead to the so desired lightening of the grey tourism sector and will be a prerequisite for tracking the revenues from the realised nights, respectively for their increase, which will contribute to improving the level of security. With regard to the current legislation, the Regulation on the organisation of the Single Tourism Information System adopted on the basis of Article 16 March 2007 is in force. 63 of the repealed Tourism Act. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The single tourist information system includes the National Tourist Register, tourism statistics explicitly mentioned in the Ordinance, and tourist information also explicitly listed as a species in the Ordinance. The subject matter of the Ordinance corresponds to the article quoted by you. 1, Chapter "General situations." You have indicated that the Ministry as a system administrator is responsible for maintaining and controlling the completeness and timing of the information. However, we should also bear in mind the end of this provision, which refers to the order of art. 8. This order concerns only the database which is entered, maintained and updated in the National Tourist Register. The register is currently kept and maintained in the Ministry and has always been public and active. As regards your argument that 2.5 million were granted in 2014. lv. on the establishment and implementation of the system, I would like to point out that the budget of the Ministry of Economy and Energy for 2014 is intended to build and implement the system, but it has not been allocated to the budget of the Office and that amount is not correct. For information, the Ministry of Economy and Energy has requested the allocation of additional funds under the Ministry's budget of 900 thousand. lv. establishing a European standard for categorization and re-categorization of tourist sites in Bulgaria and the ECTI in real time input-output. However, the amount was not granted to the Ministry of Defence due to an unapproved financial justification of the draft decree of the Council of Ministers by which the funds were requested. With this, I propose that we focus mutual efforts on the construction of the ESTI system in a form that allows electronic reporting in real time of the movement and accommodation of tourists in Bulgaria in order to have an immediate and long-term financial effect for the country's budget and to ensure the necessary information to the national security. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u75	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Yachev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u76	Madam Minister, we are aware that the issue of the introduction of this system has two sides. One of them is financial, you pointed it out. It concerns not only the lightening of the gray sector, but also the revenues in the budget of municipalities and the state budget. It is clear that the introduction of this system in the years 2007 has seen considerable resistance from some of the branch organisations, from tour operators and from the hotel business. I think that my question was asked at the beginning of December 9, 2014. Since then, unfortunately, there have been many events that require the security of citizens, the fight against terrorism to be a major priority and focus in the work of the government and the National Assembly. Strengthening illegal immigration also remains one of the main security problems of the state. Just two weeks ago, Parliament adopted a very urgent, I would say, extraordinary measures, including legislative measures, that our fences with the Republic of Turkey be completed as soon as possible in connection with limiting the influx of illegal immigrants. In this regard, I would like you to clarify the following. Do you think that the ECTI system can be an efficient tool from the national security system in the country? Do you need any legislative support for the system to be in a very rapid way? If you answer that the system is an efficient tool?? Do you need legislative support in order to implement this system as soon as possible? I didn't hear any numbers either. I heard about 900,000. lv. I didn't hear what the final introduction of this system would cost in operation, in mode of action. Have you considered these funds in the budget of the new Ministry of Tourism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Yachev. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Yachev, yes, the introduction of the ESTI system is extremely important for national security. Yeah, we're working on introducing the system so that it responds to that. A legislative change to the Tourism Act is needed. We have already started working on it and I hope that this bill will be presented in advance, so that it can fully reflect all the parameters and proposals that will help this happen. Analyses are also being made as to how much this is going to cost. Such analyses have not been carried out so far, including therefore no additional funds have been allocated because there is no adequate financial justification. We're doing this right now. Within a month, we will have a clear understanding of exactly how much the introduction of the Single Tourism Information System will cost us for communication through protected channels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u79	Thank you, Madam Secretary. With this the participation of Minister Angelkova in today's parliamentary control is exhausted. We continue with the responses of Deputy Prime Minister Ivaylo Kalfin. He will answer two questions of the MP Maya Manolova. The first question is about the possibility for insured persons to transfer their contributions for a second pension from a universal pension fund to state social security. Mrs. Manolova, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u80	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Kalfin! At the end of last year during an extraordinary session, without a real debate in the plenary, GERB lawmakers with one push of the button destroyed the second pillar of the pension system. They made it unceremonious and arrogant, as only GERB can, without hearing any foreign opinion of the citizens, experts, political opponents, even their allies in the quadruple coalition. For a month now, the changes to the Social Security Code have been a fact. Any citizen can move the contributions for a second pension from a universal pension fund to state social security. And anyone who goes out for the first time in the labour market can at any time ask for his contributions for a second pension to go to the Pensions Fund of State Social Security. That's what it says in art. 4b, para. 3 of the Code that any person born after 1 January 1960 can choose to be provided only in the DEO with the increased insurance contribution for a second pension. Well, I'm such a person. I'm born after 1960, I'm insured and I want to move my contributions to state social security from now on. According to the current law text, which the quadruple coalition adopted, I can do at any moment. That's from a legal point of view. My question is, can I actually do it? For this purpose, I invite you on Monday to go together and see how I can comply with the legal provision and move my pension contribution from the voluntary fund in which I am provided to the DEO?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Dear Mr. Kalfin, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u82	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Manolova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I thank you for inviting us together to visit various institutions and places that you are interested in, Mrs. Manolova. However, I suggest we get back to the matter seriously. The possibility of choosing where your pension insurance should be, obviously, is important. This has been seen in recent weeks when this issue is being discussed very intensively both in Parliament and in the media and in society in general. It is obvious that this amendment, which has been adopted, I want to clarify that it has been adopted by a different configuration than the political forces that support the government, has given an idea which obviously needs to be further developed. I've had a chance to tell you before that I'm not against the idea. I think the possibility of free choice should be there. And any citizen like you, who has decided to move his social security contribution, to change the way it is provided, should do so. This thing will happen and inevitably needs clarification of legislation. By the way, it's not the first time this thing happened. You know that there is a very large part of the legislation that comes into force after the adoption of additional, simple regulations. And not every law can, on the first day after it is published in the Official Gazette, practically apply. So there's no exception to this thing. However, what is important for citizens, I think, is that this discussion needs to be held. By the way, from last week on the website of the Ministry of Finance on the Internet there is one proposal. The next Tuesday of this working group with the social partners and representatives of the political forces in parliament will be discussed. So I hope that we will actually have the opportunity to give the public, the experts, the specialists an opportunity for a sufficiently broad discussion before we take this decision. So let us focus on the quality of the solution and the broad discussion rather than on the speed of its implementation. I think if you last another two months, your capital account in the insurance fund is unlikely to happen much different. Very soon there will be such an opportunity, widely discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u83	Thank you. Mrs. Manolova for a line. I would like to ask the National Representative Angelov not to stand back to the Presidency because you are thus violating the order of the House. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u84	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kalfin, yes, it is a fact that the destruction of the second pillar of the pension system happened with the votes of GERB and with the votes of the DPS. The fact is, however, that GERB very quickly after that gave a reverse move to something that we have repeatedly witnessed under the pressure of public opinion. President Plevneliev, who also strongly opposed, has also taken no action. Even Mr. Radan Kanev, otherwise a politician who claims to be brave and adamant, also feared for the integrity of the ruling coalition and turned away from his intentions to refer to the Constitutional Court. But my question is: where are you in this whole scheme because you are the social minister of Bulgaria and you do not miss in every speech you make to promise predictability and stability of the pension system? What kind of legislation is this, and what kind of government is it that, first, adopts laws and then discusses them? What kind of management practices are those that act first and then think? People are entitled to good governance and you are obliged to provide them with at least normal governance, which does not accept dead texts, which does not make a change in the law, but then subject it to broad discussion. Moreover, leaving the kalambura with my pension and insurance contributions, I would like to tell you that people are really stunned, including by the conflicting signals that are being heard by both you and the Finance Minister and other representatives of the Council of Ministers: they will have a choice: they will do it once, or they will do it many times; the contributions will be moved immediately or five years before retirement; there will be separate accounts for individual contributions for each, or there will be no; these individual accounts will be in capital funds, or they will not be, or they will still be in the Silver Fund. You can understand that broadcasting such signals on the most important topic for people is not an indicator of good governance. And these stones, this mess, this chaos, although created by GERB and by DPS, is ultimately in your garden. Because you are the social minister and you should not just talk about stability and sustainability, but create them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Here you are for the doppelganger, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Manolova, we are discussing a bill that is on the page I mention one more time to the Ministry of Finance and is about to be dealt with in plenary, not something that has already been adopted. So if you are discussing something that has already been accepted, that is not the subject. I would like to correct you, to note that there is a proposal placed on the table or on the Internet. It answers all the questions you ask. It will be discussed in various formats, including in the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, and then it will appear in parliament to be able to discuss it. That's what we're talking about. Yes, the decision of the parliament of December does not give clarity and that is what Minister Goranov said at the time that there is a need for further clarification of these changes. But notice, the mechanism changes, not the content. The content is important, and I hope you don't deny it. The opportunity for one person to choose where to provide for a pension. If you do not deny this, if you agree to discuss what is currently on the table, I am sure that we will come to a great agreement on how to make changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u87	Thank you. Next issue from MP Maya Manolova on promoting active adult life. You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u88	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kalfin, from a document on which we have a dispute whether it has been adopted or not, I suggest we move on to a document which is already a fact and is known to the Bulgarian citizens. True, a month and a half late and after persistent hiding, but the management program is already known to every Bulgarian citizen. And I have to admit that it is truly remarkable with 160 pages, with 180 priorities, with 1100 measures. Here you have really succeeded in dazzling the world, because there is hardly such a management programme in any other country with so many priorities, with so many goals and without one number, without financial justification, without economic instruments. In a word, a huge manual of generous promises that Bulgarian citizens received from the government. I suppose with this volume you thought there would be no citizen to read all these 1,100 measures and somehow the unfulfilled promises will remain hidden from the people, but here you have made a mistake. On Monday, at a meeting at a retirement club in Kyustendil, I had the opportunity to read your management program together with the pensioners in its part of social policy. We've been clicking our tongues for a long time and wondering what you've managed to write in your part of the management program. And people are really stunned because they are promised adequate social payments, and 14 social rights have been frozen. They are promised sustainable and predictable pensions, and there is total chaos in the pension system. Protection of workers is promised, and the taxable minimum is lifted. It is promised that this is already welcomed by the elderly. The government's provision of active life. And that's why they asked me, because it's a very thrifty management program, to ask you: how will you provide active life for older people over the next four years?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u89	For an answer, the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u90	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mrs. Manolova, I'm addressing you and your interlocutors from the Retired Club in Kyustendil. What it says in the program are measures that don't just come out of nowhere. In this Programme, especially in the social part, we are leaning on actions, programmes, strategies that have worked and before this government is elected. The wordings and objectives that are placed in the Programme, especially in the social sphere, you can see them in development. I am avoiding comments about the pension system at the moment, it is what the previous government left it, has not been pushed. And because it's not good, that's why we're discussing it, and it's good that we're discussing it. The fact that there are different options is also good. But that the one that is at the moment cannot continue to stand like this is the fact that I hope you will accept it. I'm going back to the active life of the elderly. The strategic framework, which is made in Bulgaria, is in the National Concept for the Promotion of Active Ageing, adopted in 2012. This is a continuation of one of the directions in the updated National Strategy for demographic development of the population by 2030. The National Concept for Promoting Active Ageing offers a concrete perspective and measures to meet the consequences of ageing. By the way, changes in the pension system are one of the measures for the activity of the elderly. The key areas for the development of these measures concern employment, the financial stability of the pension system, which is mentioned in the Programme, the improvement of health services, access to education, development and modernisation of long-term care, including the development of something called the Silver Economy in Europe. In 2015, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy envisions various instruments.. they are funded by both the National and the European Programme to start at least the people who need it the most, these are people in pre-retirement age and cannot retire, to be able to get into employment programmes more easily; people who could exercise different activity, including volunteering, to be encouraged in the settlements in which they live; people who could develop social enterprises that are also part of the priorities can also be engaged. These are specific measures that are provided for in the Programme for the Activity of Older People. I think that everyone who participates in it so far, I hope that in the future there will be much more, will be pleased with the Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u91	Thank you. Will you take advantage of your right to a line, Mrs. Manolova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable ministers! Dear Mr. Kalfin, let us still return to your management program and to the specific measures with which you promise to achieve active life for the elderly. They're very thrifty. What you promise is to develop a National Strategy, enter an active life index and develop a two-year report to implement the National Concept. That is, with three papers you promise the elderly to make their lives active. You are right that during the government of GERB is adopted a concept which you are now explaining that you will finish, but this is a paper document that is full of hollow phrases that mean nothing and bring nothing to the elderly. So at their request, I have hired myself to inform you of what they mean by "active life" and what they expect of you. First of all, they expect the opportunity to retire, which means the age and the pension internship to grow so that they are in line with the average life expectancy and economic realities. What you're doing right now is the opposite. With the mechanical upliftment of the pension internship, tens of thousands of people will not be able to retire in the coming year. "Active life" also means that those who do not have two years of service or age have opportunities for flexible retirement. Otherwise, there will be groups of people who no matter how much time passes, as they cannot find a job, will never retire, which is good for the finance minister, but is hardly your goal. Older people say "active life" means they get decent pensions. [[the President signals that time has run out]] , i.e. to take care of the increase in pensions not only through the Swiss rule, but also by their annual update... something you promised in the election program of ABB. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This means affordable healthcare, cheap medicines and access to healthcare.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u93	I'm asking you to focus on closing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u94	That means social programs. This also means supporting the functioning of pension clubs. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] That's what the elderly expect of you. [[the President signals that time has run out]] I'm guessing not just the ones in Kyustendil,...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u95	Mrs. Manolova, you're breaking the rules. You know the speaking time is two minutes!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u96	...and I commit myself to periodically telling you what people think and what are the expectations of fulfilling your management program.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u97	Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Manolova, there is something we should be aware of. I see, this time, we have a significant discrepancy with your views. For me, the active life of older people is not early retirement. You're connecting him to this. No, it's an opportunity for a person to be active, to be useful to both himself and society. Whether it will be for employment, whether it will be in some voluntary, social activity, I mentioned about social enterprises, this means that the elderly person should be in contact with other people and be useful to society. At least that is understood in Europe and in other countries. If you understand active life as an early retirement, I must tell you that you cannot all retire early in Bulgaria, take high pensions and then not receive social benefits. On the contrary, active life means that one is not dependent on social benefits, but is given the opportunity, when there is a physical opportunity for this thing, to contribute something to society and to himself. This excludes fast, early retirement and staying only for social care. On the contrary, many people would like to be useful in society. This is the opportunity we should give them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u99	Thank you. With the answer to this question, Mr. Kalfin's involvement in today's parliamentary control is over. We move on to Mr. Nikolai Nenchev's responses to the Minister of Defence. He will answer a question from the MP Volen Siderov on NATO Command Centre and military base to Shabla city. You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u100	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, after the visit of NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg in the media space, information appeared that NATO command asked Bulgaria to place a NATO military base in Bulgaria, as well as a Command Centre. This was clearly stated in the media. It is understood that NATO also wants such centers in other countries of the Block, apart from Bulgaria. My question in this regard is: is this information correct? If so, when and by whom was the decision to deploy the Command Centre and military base on the territory of Dobrich district taken? In clarification I will say that information has come out that directs the location of this base in the area of Shabla, where over the years there has been a Bulgarian military unit. This is the easternmost part of our Black Sea coast. You answer this question, and I will tell you what the concerns of the voters I represent are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u101	For an answer, the Minister of Defense Mr. Nenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Siderov, the issue of building a NATO command centre and a military base near Shabla City or in Dobrich District did not stand the attention of the Ministry of Defence. On the basis of the Council of Ministers' Decision No 36 of 3 September 2014 at the Wales Summit in September 2014, the Bulgarian side expressed support for the decision of the 28 NATO member states to take the necessary measures to ensure and protect the Alliance's countries in response to the current threats. One of the measures adopted concerns the establishment of NATO command and management structures to support the implementation of measures to ensure the security of the Alliance countries. Their main purpose is to coordinate and support the planning and implementation of NATO multinational exercises and trainings, synchronise them with national planning, as well as ensure the acceptance and accommodation of other Alliance formations. At present, a NATO command and management structure is envisaged to be located in Sofia, with 50% of the personnel being soldiers from NATO member states. Dear Mr. Siderov, the issue of building a facility in Shabla has never stood and no such decision has been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u103	The line, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u104	Yes, Minister, we understand that Sofia will be the command center. As for the NATO military base itself, you say that this issue has not stood, but as I said very clearly in the media, these messages appeared, even with headlines: "There will be a NATO base in our country." Stoltenberg himself, as well as other high-ranking Pentagon officials, mainly of the United States, of the State Department, have also said in recent days that NATO will expand and deploy its own, including troops, and military bases closer and closer to the Frontier, so to call it the front line that surrounds Russia. It's a fact. That's obvious without being a military specialist. It's visible from the map. Now here is the question of the Bulgarian government's responsibility in your person as Minister of Defence, because you know it is very easy to say from this tribune: No, what you are saying is not true! I know that you will not answer directly: Yes, we are preparing such a base. Yeah, whatever they want us to do, we give it to them. I know this is your practice and I do not expect you to confirm a hundred percent, but I am still pleased that in some percentage you have confirmed that there will be a command center in our country. It doesn't matter. This means that NATO predicts from here what will command this centre, which is called the Commander-in-Chief. He's gonna be in charge of some kind of action, isn't he? He won't just stay in Sofia and drink his beer at the lovely Sofia restaurants. He'll be in charge of something. What is that thing? Well, these will be actions related to tightening the hoop around Russia, i.e. Bulgaria, as I have been talking for a long time, has been put into a military situation where we are also the target of reverse action, as Russia has already stated in response to the NATO position that the US position is, above all, that Russia is a threat. This and your predecessor, Minister Shalamanov, from the caretaker government, made it clear. He accepted, right after the meeting in Wales, he came out and said in the Strategy we bet that Russia is a threat. You are obviously implementing the same strategy, and Russia is clearly a threat to you. Therefore, you are doing everything possible for us to become part of the front line. I would like to tell you that this is a very dangerous policy, and this policy can end with events which a colleague on the right here, from the right sector, reminded a significant date for the People's Court. This may be repeated after some time and according to your actions. That's all you need to keep in mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u105	It's a hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u106	Dear Mr. Siderov, I will answer you beyond any doubt, and I sincerely believe that this is my duty, both by virtue of the Constitution and by virtue of the laws of the country. Let me say this again very clearly and categorically: we have never asked NATO to place such a base in Bulgaria. It is about a coordination centre that will most likely be located in Sofia, but this has not yet been decided. Thank you. There should be no doubt in that direction. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u107	We move on to a request from the National Representative Metodi Andreev concerning information that at present the Office of Military Information (MI) has not submitted more than 33 thousand archive units to the Commission on the files. On the same topic there is also a question asked by the MP Desislav Chukolov concerning the files of 33 thousand military scouts. The procedure will be with a common answer, giving a consistent opportunity to develop his questioning Mr. Andreev, after him the word will have Mr. Chukolov, to develop his question, follows the answer of the minister, respectively two supplementary questions by Mr. Andreev, a reply from Mr. Chukolov and on the occasion of the questioning, Mr. Andreev will have the opportunity to express his attitude to the minister's reply. You have the floor to develop your question, Mr. Andreev. [[Relations from the National Representative Angel Naydenov.]] If it turns out that any more questions are on this subject, there will be a common answer to all three questions. Who asked such a question? [[Noise and lines.]] You have a chance to develop your question, Mr. Andreev. I'll clarify the subject of the other questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u108	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, there is information that at present Office of Military Information, which is your subordinate structure and belonging to the former Intelligence Management of the General Staff, in violation of art. 1 of the Law, which became known as the Records Act, has not submitted more than 33 thousand archive units to the Commission. The order of Art. 1 of the File Act includes all documents of the former State Security and of the Intelligence Department of the Bulgarian People's Army, including their predecessors and successors, in order to implement the other objective of the Law... the right of access of everyone to the documents of the authorities. This is the scope of the law without the legislator having provided for any restrictions relating to Bulgarian or foreign citizens. The correspondence held between the Committee on Files and the Ministry of Defence for the period 2009 - 2014 did not result in the overall transmission of the archive. The non-transmitting of all documents shall also lead to infringement of art. 16 of the Records Act. According to the legal text described therein, state authorities, one of which is the Minister of Defence, must organise the assembly and transmission of documents to State Security and the Intelligence Department of the Bulgarian People's Army, including their predecessors and successors for the period from 9 September 1944 to 16 July 1991. In addition, the list of persons holding or occupying the public positions described in art. 3, para. 1, t. 16 of the File Act, as a result of which the Commission, as an authorised state body, cannot carry out its compulsory verification of the said law. In this regard, the correspondence held between the Commission and the Ministry of Defence during the period 2009 - 2013 has not produced a result so far. Dear Minister, my questions to you are as follows: first of all, what urgent measures will you take to address the problem of breach of the Law on Files by the Office of Military Information............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Second, do you not consider that the failure to comply with the legal obligation by the official or persons constitutes a crime within the meaning of art. 282 of the penal code?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u109	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. The word has Mr. Chukolov to develop his question. With the same subject are the questions asked by Mr. Angel Naydenov concerning the provision of the archive of the Service "Military information" to the Commission for access and disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, as well as the question of the National Representative Velizar Enchev concerning the intention of the military minister to make publicly available secret documents for foreign citizens located in the Office of Military Information. The procedure will be common after the question of Mr. Chukolov, the opportunity to develop his will have respectively Mr. Naydenov and Mr. Enchev. The Minister with a general answer, five minutes on the questioning and three minutes on the three questions. A total of 14 minutes will be available, Minister, for a general answer to all three questions of the MPs. We're listening, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u110	Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! This question, as you said, Mrs. Tsacheva, I asked it on 25 November last year, two months ago. Now you see how one question and three questions come together on this subject. This is a question that excites Bulgarian society. My question is this. I saw that Mr. Andreev wanted to light up these files as soon as possible. Seeing how things started, that's what's gonna happen. This will happen because the words said by the Minister himself and the parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Defence Plamen Darakchiev also supports an hour rather these files - 33 thousand archive units, as is the correct term, to be given to the Committee on Files, i.e. to be promulgated. What's gonna happen like this? It will happen that the people who, through the so-called socialist regime, fought against the invasion of Turkey in Bulgaria, the scouts who have acted in Turkish territory, will now just light them up, giving them to the Bureau of Records, who will gladly issue reports and say who has done what. In fact, the feat of these people will compare it to the one who issued the neighbor, for example, or wrote the contributions to State Security. We are firmly and categorically against this. I'll just give you this example. He recently died, as you may know, the legend of Military Intelligence Penyo Penev, who spent nine years in a Turkish prison and hasn't issued a single agent. Because these were, imagine, people who worked for a foreign country, as if they didn't swear and kiss the Bulgarian flag, we will now illuminate these people. For us from the attack, I say again, this is absolutely unacceptable. Mr. Minister, except that in recent months between asking the question and now the answer you have created such nonsense to compare these scouts with terrorists, to call them "Diversians" and to insult them and humiliate them anyway, my question to you is: have you reconsidered this decision of yours? Did you realize that this way you will show that Bulgaria illuminates everyone who has ever worked for it, that maybe in the future it will?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u111	Question of the MP Angel Naydenov. Here you go, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! This is one of the examples of how the same topic can be viewed differently and have different views. I wouldn't hire myself, and I won't ask if the Secretary of Defense is ready to hand over 33,000 archive units, because I don't know what they are or how many of these archive units are. Therefore, my question, Minister, is rather what from the archives of the Office of Military Information is not transmitted in implementation of the Law, in general terms, about the files for which you express consent, willingness and desire to be transmitted to this Commission? The reason to ask this question, of course, on my part is the fact that I know the work of the Military Information Service. I have had multiple conversations with the management of this Service, and as an example I will give the message, which was published on the Office's website "Military information" that by mid-December 2013, it has fulfilled its obligations under the File Act. So she betrayed everything that was within the scope of the Law. I cannot allow the Office to fail to fulfil its legal obligations, and it has handed over to the Commission on the files everything that needs to be handed over. Here I will open a clamp and I will say that there is a coliseum between two laws "The Law of Records and the Law of Classified Information, where there is a problem with the identification and transmission of documents to employees of the Service "Military Information" who have held the position of Head of Sector Up. However, this is another aspect of what is to be transmitted to the Bureau of Records. I will, of course, develop this topic in the line, but let's not mix the two questions. So my question is: what is not betrayed, which you are willing to betray?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u113	Mr. Velizar Enchev has the opportunity to develop his question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u114	Madam President, colleagues! Mr. Minister, I am making a very important statement at the moment on the stand not only as a representative of the National Intelligence Service, but as the only one asking these questions on this subject, which was an employee of the National Intelligence Service in the period 1986 - 1996, and I believe that I am most competent on this matter, including from Your Grace. Mr. Minister, on 29 November 2014 you stated that you would hand over all documents to Military Intelligence at the time of the Communism of the Committee on Files, and you allowed yourself something unacceptable at a party congress of Democrats for strong Bulgaria.You said the following:..I will pass on the documents, the files of Foreign Intelligence, to make it clear everything that has been done, because I am convinced that it was not in the name of Bulgaria, but of another state and other intelligence. In this regard, I would like to ask you the following expert questions: do you not exceed your rights and violate the Records Act by declaring that you will make public the cases of foreign citizens of the Bulgarian Military Intelligence Service? As you are aware, the Law in question applies only to Bulgarian citizens who are collaborators of the former secret services. I would also like to point out that, in administrative terms, a decision to export secret documents from the Office of Military Information (MI) can only be taken by its superior. During the term of office of Minister of Service Shalamanov, the President of the Commission on Files also raised the issue of transmission of documents. If this happens, Minister, do you ensure that the archives of the Commission on the files available to citizens will not be classified documents of particular importance for national security? At the moment there is a broken yard of every Bulgarian and foreign citizen can enter. Finally, in addition to what you are doing is illegal, do you not think that it is extremely dangerous for the state interests, as well as for Bulgaria's international authority to open files for foreign citizens who worked for Bulgaria, for the interests of Bulgaria in the Balkans and in the Middle East? I specify: the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Serbia, the Hellenic Republic and, above all, the Republic of Turkey.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u115	For a common answer to one question and three questions, the Minister of Defence has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u116	Mr. Andreev, Mr. Chukolov, Mr. Naydenov, Mr. Enchev! In accordance with art. 16 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the Declaration of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to the State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army, Office of Military Information............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 1991.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u117	We surprised you, Mr. Minister, with this complicated procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u118	It is the Office's duty to provide a list of the persons who have occupied and occupying the persons described in art. 3, para. 1, t. 16 of the Law's posts. According to the quoted art. 16 The responsibility for the organisation of the assembly and transmission of archives is the responsibility of the Minister of Defence. That is why I firmly state that the Law will be implemented. Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic and we are all obliged not to interpret, but to follow the will of the people's representation. I would like to point out that, in addition to legal, this is also my moral duty to society. Bulgarian citizens have the undeniable right to know the truth about the secret services of the communist regime, about their organization, means and methods of work. With regard to the question you ask at the end of the inquiry,... have failed to comply with a legal obligation by an official constitutes a criminal offence under art............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 282, the answer is solely from the competences of the judicial authorities. Dear Mr. Chukolov, I hope that the answer I gave earlier in relation to the questioning of the MP Mr. Metodi Andreev also contains the topic raised in your current question to me. I'll just add that according to art. 1, para. 2 of the Law on access and disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, the declaration of belonging applies only to Bulgarian citizens. I understand your concern for Bulgarian scouts, but the law is clear. Those who are identified as belonging to state security and intelligence services shall be included in the list of public positions in art. 3, para. 1 of the Law and will be announced by the Commission. As for your remark that the Vice-President of the Commission on Files Airush Hadji is of Turkish origin, I can only assure you that I do not share the Bulgarian citizens according to their ethnicity. It is evident that this is what the Members of the National Assembly think after voting on their election to the Commission. Mr. Enchev, allow me, first of all, to challenge the thesis formulated in your question. Nowhere and for no reason have I expressed my intention to reveal the identity of foreign citizens who worked for the RUMO. I know well, as you know, that the law provides for disclosure of belonging to the secret services of the communist regime only to Bulgarian citizens. I would also like to inform you that, according to § 17 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, the documents of State Security and the intelligence services for the period 9 September 1944 until 16 July 1991 are declassified information. § 16 of the same law states that the data on statutory and material employees for the period cited do not constitute personal data within the meaning of the Personal Data Protection Act. To your question whether I should have ordered the head of the service to reveal the names of its collaborators on the territory of 10 countries in the Middle East and North America, the answer is a definite no. I didn't issue an order, neither written nor oral, with such wording. And I do not intend to issue one in the future, again because I know Bulgarian laws well. To your question whether the transfer of the archive to the Office of Military Information will not endanger the life and security of foreign nationals who worked for it, the answer is again no. I have already said that these citizens are not subject to disclosure. In addition, their cases will be stored in a separate committee of the Committee on Files, which only the President of the Commission Mr. Evtim Kostadinov has access to. I would like to point out that members of the Committee on Files are elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. For this reason, I, as Minister of Defense, have complete confidence in them. I believe that I have answered the questions asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u119	Two supplementary questions from Mr. Andreev regarding his question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u120	Mr. Minister, do you have any information on whether the Office of Military Information (MI) was sent to the Commission on the file document, a archive unit containing the name of a foreign citizen, which, however, turned out not to be a foreign citizen? Do you have that information? The document is number 1343. Because I know of such precedent. Here's the story. The Bureau of Records has microfilms of these 33,000 archive units. I repeat, it has microfilms. The following experiment was done. One of these microfilms was read with the appropriate equipment, after which the Commission sent an official letter to the Military Information Service and asked them: The answer is: "We cannot, because this archive unit contains the name of a foreign citizen. " [[Reply of the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u121	Please don't call from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u122	The Committee on Records then sends the document itself to the Office of Military Information. It turns out that the name of the foreign citizen according to the service is Atanas Zhekov Tilev. If this is a foreign citizen, then I'm Chinese Mandarin! [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u123	A line on the issue of the MP Desislav Chukolov to the response of Minister Nenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u124	Mr. Minister, you say that's the law. We at Ataka will amend this law. You know, countries like the United States and England for a hundred years keep all documents classified on a particular conflict, like World War II. And you, Minister, are now rushing to fulfill this law. You see, there is tension in society, as I said earlier. I quote to you information from BGNES: Nenchev is waving a fist of military intelligence, Military scouts whether Minister Nenchev of the Prosecutor's Office, General Chavdar Chervenkov: The statement of the Minister of Defence for military intelligence is straining tensions. As you like to say, let's have a broad debate on this subject. Let every opinion be heard. Do we have the right to throw these heroes, heroes right now, just like that, throw them out like this?! You are actually carrying out a direct order from Turkey with this decision, Minister! Turkish intelligence, Turkey in general, is applauding now perhaps by watching this debate. We've made everything we've built to give it away! The Bulgarian scouts for a foreign country had worked. You're working for a foreign country right now! My request, Minister, is that you step out here on the stand and apologize to these scouts. You owe them that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u125	The line of the MP Angel Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I'll admit I'm having a hard time formulating a line on your response. First of all, I'm not gonna make you apologize. And one I'm sorry for will be enough of your part on the occasion of the exchange of lines with the employees, in the case of Military Intelligence. Although if you apologize, it won't hurt your image. Yes, you do. But don't you understand that you're making this subject more than just a reference? You make a hot topic that literally every week is present in public, media and public attention, and of course, in the political circles, something that I do not think is good, neither for the service nor for you as a minister. Of course, I won't take care of your image. But I'm saying it very well. What I understand from your answer is that there is something that has not been transmitted by the Military Information Service and that what has not been transmitted is documents containing data on foreign nationals who have cooperated with the Military Information Service, which you want to pass on as documents to the Commission on the files without being publicly disclosed. Excuse me, but I will express a deep doubt in the Commission's ability to preserve and safeguard the secrecy of this information, which puts all foreign citizens, their contacts, their acquaintances, their loved ones at risk and out of any doubt. I advise you not to put this responsibility on your shoulders. That is neither your duty, nor your duty as a moral duty. No moral duty in this case, apart from the strict framework of the law, can determine your conduct. And these frames of the law do not fit this desire and readiness. Secondly, I understand that you want to convey information about employees who are from the position of the Head of Sector up, because there is a Coliseum with the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. Okay. First of all, to hand over this documentation, although I'm opening the clamp here to say that I'm surprised it's 33,000 archive units, if that's what you mean. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] How is it possible that all officers in the military intelligence system from the sector chief up to 33,000 in respect of whom the archive documents have not been submitted? There's either some kind of mistake here, or the information you're giving us is not credible. Before doing so, however, you need to clear the coliseum between the Law on Protection of Classified Information and the Law on Files respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u127	You've been talking for over a minute, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u128	In conclusion, the people of the Service of Military Information. The scouts do not deserve the attitude that has been demonstrated in recent years, but deserve respect and any violation of their rights will be detrimental to our national security.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u129	We understand your thesis, Mr. Naydenov, twice the time you're talking about. A line from Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u130	Mr. Minister, with all due respect to the institution you represent or are incompetent or, more likely, you deliberately manipulate and mislead the Bulgarian public. Revealing the name of the leading intelligence officer, whether the civilian, or military, automatically leads to his connections and the names of these links in the country concerned, mostly referring to the Middle East, in the first place. Secondly, not least, of course, the Balkan countries Turkey, Greece, the Republic of Macedonia, Serbia, Albania, including Romania, where we scouted until 1992. What I hold in my hands, Mr. Minister, is a disc [[shows him]] to my book I was in the intelligence department, in which my entire work and personal work was published. Anyone can meet him. Mr. Minister, you are aware that this disc can give you complete information about the names of my collaborators, I do not say "agents" but collaborators, friends of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Republic of Macedonia, Ohrid, Skopje, including the Republic of Serbia. Full details of their names! Moreover, with a flumaster, the Commission on Files has crossed out in such a way that some of the names are visible through the flumaster. This is irresponsible and treason! Secondly, I would like to draw your attention to a very important fact from what I have said at the moment, and it concerns other cases, cases of work, personal cases and files of the active activities of the Bulgarian intelligence against Turkish nationalism, Macedonian nationalism and the Serbian nationalism. Only one fact that proves the rightness of what I'm saying. I am an officer from the National Intelligence Service until 1996. Until 1991, Mr. Minister, all the active events that I have implemented, first and foremost with Turkish nationalism, have been withdrawn as a state secret. However, not very intelligent representatives of the National Intelligence Service have left the reports of active events that can be read here and a full picture of foreign citizens who have implemented these active events on the territory of Pakistan, the Republic of Turkey, India and France. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This is a high treason in which you are directly involved and one day you will be responsible!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u131	A hole, Mr. Minister, to the four MPs in total.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u132	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm surprised we're still having this dialogue. You say... for several Now we're wondering if we should hand this archive over to the Bureau of Records. We do not need to have this conversation anymore because the archive was handed over a year and a half ago, ladies and gentlemen. You are now saying that there is a high likelihood that the Commission will abuse. If the Commission wanted to abuse, within this year and a half, it would. This entire archive has been handed over to another carrier. At any particular point, the Commission shall be able to print these archive units. So we don't have a case that we have to solve right now. [[Heckling]] They've been betrayed! A year and a half ago, they were betrayed. You say here: "Let's wait for the law to be corrected. " - In the National Assembly, we should not have this dialogue. The laws must be fulfilled as they are. Mr. Naydenov, this Law was passed by the MPs in this House, including you, the MPs of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. Now you say to me, "Don't obey the law that we have passed." [[Reply from the National Representative Angel Naydenov.]] I am surprised that in all these years you have not proposed a legislative initiative to stop this process. That didn't happen. There's no different argument in that direction. Today, when I declare to you again, once again, I must fulfill my powers of attorney to pass on the archive to the Commission on the files. I don't accept the argument that there are no suitable premises there. [[Replications from the MPs Atanas Merdjanov, Angel Naydenov and Georgi Bojinov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u133	Please, MPs, do not replicate from the scene.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u134	The same Commission, ladies and gentlemen, has been elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria and we should have more confidence in it than I personally do not know how they are appointed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u135	For regard to the Minister's reply there is a Mr. Andreev two minutes. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u136	Tell Andreev the number.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u137	Colleagues, you know your numbers, you call at any time... except to listen to the rest of you who are not informed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u138	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! There is enough speculation on this subject. There's gotta be one thing that's clear. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]] Until 16 July 1990, when the documents under this law were covered, these services were not part of the security system to which Bulgaria currently belongs. They were part of another security system. They were part of another public-political bloc. You are aware that all these archive documents and these, as speculated here, scouts of the Bulgarian services abroad were shared with the fraternal socialist countries and the Moscow Centre, especially for military information. I have here a document that clearly shows that, in the period 1984 - 1986, the intelligence management of the General Staff had close contacts, brotherly contacts with the relevant service of the former Soviet Union, known as the GRU, including at the information and security level. This means the following: every activity of our external services then... Mr. Enchev, you were an employee of the National Intelligence Service. From 1986 to 1990 you were an employee of First General Government of State Security. Don't abuse it here! All these collaborators and agents that Bulgarian intelligence had at the time were shared with the Moscow Center. No foreign policy operation of the then services could have been carried out without a sanction from the Moscow Centre. Currently, if Mr. Siderov and Mr. Naydenov keep the shared agents of the Bulgarian services with the Soviet former services, it is a national betrayal. It is our duty to convey these archives to the Commission, to clarify the records of a photo film, but we want all the archives to be transmitted, as is the law, i.e. in paper. That is the truth, and no national security is threatened. It threatens the shared agents who have ensured the security of the former communist bloc.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u139	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. Let's move on to the next question. [[People representatives Volen Siderov, Angel Naydenov and Velizar Enchev want the floor for personal explanation.]] That's when you don't listen to the recommendations I make before that. Mr. Enchev, I didn't give you the floor. One at a time! At the time, Mr. Siderov was the first. Mr. Siderov, will you take the floor for a personal explanation?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u140	Since I was mentioned by name, I am getting up to take a stand. I explain immediately that I was not an employee of military or any other intelligence, but in principle I answer to Mr. Andreev because...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u141	You never know.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u142	Of course, Mr. Andreev. I didn't. If it were, you'd have taken it out a thousand and a hundred times by now. But that doesn't mean it's a bad thing first. I merely specify that I take it as neutral, so to speak, both an observer and a participant, as we make policy. When you make politics, you have to do an accurate historical analysis. To say it was a national betrayal then to cooperate with the Soviet Union is an absolute nonsense, because in the same way I would say it was a national betrayal that you are now doing. All the information goes to the States, right? In the CIA and NATO services. Of course! Then what are you talking about? Back then, we were part of the war-political bloc of the Warsaw Treaty. That was the division of the world. You being the judge of history and the division of the world then of two camps, I think, is just ridiculous. So save your pathos, Mr. Andreev. I know you want to look like a big anti-communist wrestler like that in front of the audience, but sometimes when you sum things up like that with big touches, you risk getting trapped. You have already entered a trap in which you want to announce that everyone who worked for Bulgarian intelligence or for Bulgarian military intelligence was a national traitor because the data went to Moscow. First of all, that's not entirely true. As far as I am aware, without being a specialist, Bulgaria has also performed its tasks without sharing everything with the Soviet Union. But even if she did, it was the socialist camp, it was the socialist bloc, which, by the way, had a lot of good things. If we repeat some of them now, Bulgaria will be better and people will live better. [[Reply by National Representative Metodi Andreev.]] I'm sure of it. [[Single applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u143	Personal explanation Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u144	Mr. Andreev, you should be ashamed of what you said. I have worked for 10 years in the Yugoslav Department of the National Intelligence Service, in which the employees had no right to graduate from the Soviet Academy of the KGB precisely because our interests in the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Serbia and in general Yugoslavia... [[The National Representative Metodi Andreev comes out of the Chamber.]] Mr. Andreev, stay, why are you leaving for a guilty conscience or something? ...as in the territory of socialist federal Yugoslavia, our interests were in almost complete contradiction with the interests of the Soviet Union and the KGB and their military intelligence, which is why, as a correspondent of the Bulgarian national television, I have entered several times before 10 November, Mr. Andreev, who does not have you, in sharp controversy with the Soviet correspondents. Let this be known and everyone who accuses Bulgarian foreign intelligence, especially in the Balkans, that it served Soviet interests, deeply, deeply wrong. Moreover, even our relations with socialist back then with the Republic of Romania, which we actively scouted until 1991, have often come into conflict with the Soviet leadership again, including our intelligence of the Republic of Albania, which, thank God, I think is continuing at the moment. There are eternal national interests, Mr. Minister and Mr. Andreev, you who left. Eternal national interests, which have nothing to do with ideology, have nothing to do with building a socialist or capitalist. And speaking of the formation of socialist or capitalist, to tell you, Mr. Minister, that during the time of socialism, in the last years of the rule of Todor Zhivkov, our interests in neighbouring countries were much more protected, which can be seen best by the disc, which I showed you about the active events against pro-Turkish nationalism, Macedonian nationalism, which is currently more up-to-date than ever. And, if you are an expert, Mr. Minister, you must pour ashes on your head and apologize to military intelligence officers for what you intend to do to them with the beheading of Military Intelligence, as with this Law you wish to pass, you want to fire personnel of Military Intelligence, who represent the foundation of Military Intelligence of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u145	Personal explanation of Mr. Angel Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u146	Thank you, Madam President. I take the floor for a personal explanation because it almost sounded like the words of the MP Andreev that I keep shared or unrequited agents. I don't take it as a reproach and, if that's what it looks like in Mr. Andreev's eyes, the better. Yeah, I keep a shared or unrequited agent, and that doesn't bother me at all. Of course, I do not consider it necessary to declare that I have no conflict of interest, as this has been the subject of so many checks that this is quite natural and obvious. However, I also take the floor for something else to say that I have had the opportunity to be convinced of the respect to which our partners refer to the employees of the Service, whether they served in the service before or after November 10th. Secondly, to say that I am convinced of the capabilities of the Military Information Service to acquire information to assist the leadership of the Republic of Bulgaria in making important decisions for the country and society. I am convinced of the opportunities and respect our partners have for the information they acquire, including in the areas where Bulgarian military contingents are located. I am convinced of the dangers, risks and conditions in which Bulgarian military scouts work and they deserve minimum respect. Minimal respect!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u147	They have it, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u148	I'm glad, Minister, that you say they have it, and that they deserve that respect. We should all say that in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u149	We are moving on to a question from the MP Yavor Notev concerning the Bulgarian military contingents in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u150	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, I have listened to the answers and opinions of the previous question and it seemed to me that there is a clash here, which is somewhere higher in the hierarchy of human values, not only a political position, not just an ethical position, but also a professional one. I would like with my question to contribute to seeing your vision from another angle and to really create an idea of what the current leadership of the Ministry of Defense intends to do on an important, in my view, question that I am asking you. He is: Dear Minister, for 12 years a military mission in Afghanistan has been the most serious Bulgarian participation in an international operation abroad. So far 9,000 Bulgarian servicemen have joined it, and the cost of the state is 430, according to data on 1 April 2014. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. lv. At the same time, the Bulgarian Army suffers from a chronic lack of funds for modernization, financial motivation of the soldiers in the ranks of the Bulgarian Army. In June 2014 Bulgaria sent another Bulgarian contingent of 360 troops to participate in the International Mission in Afghanistan. At the same time, a number of countries have finally withdrawn their military presence. In this regard, I ask you to answer how long will Bulgaria send Bulgarian military to Afghanistan and spend a huge financial resource to pursue foreign interests? When will the Bulgarian military forces from Afghanistan finally be withdrawn from Afghanistan, and what are your actions in this direction and on this topic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u151	Thank you, dear Mr. Notev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u152	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Notev, in the framework of the Mission "Support for International Peace" the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria fulfil their allied commitments through participation in international security operations. The operation of international security forces in Afghanistan is one of the most complex events ever held in NATO. The main objective is to prevent the country from becoming an asylum for terrorists and terrorist organisations into a regional and global scope of action. This objective is fully in line with the national interests of the Republic of Bulgaria. I can say that NATO's strategic plan has been successfully implemented within the prescribed deadlines. The operation in this format ended in December 2014 and thus our participation in it. In implementation of the Allies' decisions on security support in Afghanistan, a new NATO-led mission has been launched since January 2015 under the name "Rescruitment Support." It is related to training, advice and assistance to Afghan security forces in carrying out their tasks on the territory of the country. In addition to NATO member states, 11 partners of the Alliance will also take part. By Decision No 730 of 22 November 2013, the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria has approved our country's participation in Operation The tasks of the Bulgarian contingent are related to the security of strategic sites where the training and training of Afghan security forces are carried out. The duration of the operation and its duration are subject to periodic review by the North Atlantic Council and will depend on the level of readiness of local security forces to provide control over the country's territory. According to the planned financial memorandums, our country's participation in the operation is worth 14 million. 587 thousand. BGN 628. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u153	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Notev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u154	Mr. Minister, the termination of the participation in a programme due to its expiry is a good reason to think about what exactly happened as a result of this participation, what are the interests of the Republic of Bulgaria, which were distant and which were declared with the participation until the end of 2014. As you can see, the conclusion was definitely aimed at this and a choice to continue the participation of Bulgarian military in Afghanistan. But let us remind ourselves that in addition to the numbers that speak of enormous costs incurred by our country in pursuing and defending vague and unpopular objectives in terms of national interest, we have reason to compare and compare what has been done by other countries in the order of the same participation in radically different starting and output data, in view of their economic situation and financial opportunities. The number of Bulgarian military members who attended the missions, I said a total of 9,000, and those who were at the end of the programme.. 387 people are unmatched with the numbers that sit against the names of much more serious economies, people and countries that could engage more seriously with this cause. Let us point out that Greece has sent 10 troops, let us point out that Finland has 95 soldiers in this format, that Luxembourg also sends 10 soldiers. The entire comparison and the entire analysis says that we have a presence that does not correspond to the national interest or the financial opportunities that are generally discussed at this meeting in Wales, which you mentioned, in the context of the need for the Bulgarian Army, the Bulgarian Armed Forces to be helped to arm and change their weapons with old NATO weapons, just as our NATO partners believe, the people who are either declaring a solid support and at the same time generously equip us, or expect to equip us with weapons that will be comparable to theirs, in the form of an old, already obsolete weapon. I do not find it necessary to happen to the Bulgarian army, to the Bulgarian state, to the Bulgarian citizens. It seems to me that it is right and we expected to hear another management decision on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u155	Thank you, dear Mr. Notev. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u156	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Notev, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are participating in this mission by Decision No 730 of 22 November 2013. Mr. Notev, we are part of NATO at the will of the National Assembly and as part of NATO, we are also obliged to fulfil our obligations within the Union. I have nothing more to add in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u157	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next question from the MP Metodi Andreev. [[Heckling]] He's gone. The next question is from the National Representative Angel Naydenov on the implementation of a project for acquisition of a new type of fighter plane. Here you go, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u158	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, the answer to this question seems predestined because of the 2015 budget because of the obvious lack in it of funds for serious modernization of arms and fighting equipment, even to some extent because of the government's position, which within the Programme does not contain clearly stated intentions for the realization of the major projects for modernization of the Bulgarian Army, which suggest not less than 150 million each year to be capital expenditure funds and, of course, does not contain any information and intention for the realization of one of the most urgent projects. Mr. Minister, with you and many in this room, we know perfectly well that buying a new type of fighter plane does not mean going somewhere in the warehouse, taking out, as it were, 1 billion dollars, to pay and bring the planes to Bulgaria. The realization of this project means at least 3 to 5 years, within which many actions need to be carried out, including training and training, preparation of the infrastructure itself as a period in which natural exploitation and the time for combat use of these aircraft can be realised. Therefore, the decision must be made in time. In my opinion, this must be within the first half of any term of government or National Assembly in order to bear the corresponding responsibility. Mr. Minister, I am in a hurry to say that I am deeply sorry that I am not the one who launched the Modernization Project, whether for the new planes or for the acquisition of a new type of multi-purpose patrol ships or for the equipment needed by the ground troops. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Everything needed to be prepared to begin the process of acquiring a new type of combat plane, Mr. Minister, was ready. My question is: do you intend to start the procedure for acquiring a new type of fighter plane?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u159	Thank you, dear Mr. Naydenov. Minister Nenchev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u160	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Naydenov, I would first of all like to thank you for your efforts. I've reviewed the archive, reviewed the records you submitted, including a meeting of the Council of Ministers, in this regard we have no distinction. My efforts are also in this direction to do our best to acquire a new multi-purpose aircraft that we need. There are different options in this direction. Let me say this. We confirm our intentions for the acquisition and introduction of weapons into the Bulgarian army of a new fighter plane to replace the current morally outdated and costly to support Migs. The project for the acquisition and operation of such aircraft will be embedded in the National Defence Policy Programme by 2020, which will be submitted by March for approval by the Bulgarian government and by you. I would not be committed to answering your question whether this will happen in this year 2015. I can only say that the project is in its final phase and will be ready in the next month. From there everything will depend on the will of the Bulgarian institutions, on the funding opportunities and, of course, on the negotiations in which we will look for the best possible conditions for the acquisition of the new battle plane. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u161	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Naydenov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, you said something very important in your reply and this is that you are preparing a special programme to take into account the need for modernization of the Bulgarian Armed Forces, in particular the Bulgarian Army and that this programme will be submitted to the National Assembly by the end of March. This gives some clarity about the direction in which your and the command of the Armed Forces can be located efforts to modernize the weapons and the fighting equipment of the Bulgarian Armed Forces. I will, of course, retain a dose of skepticism, as far as such funds can very hardly be implemented within the policy of restrictions, which implements the government of which you are a member, but I very much hope that if not this one, then next year you will be able to launch the process of acquiring a new type of combat plane. It is nice, Mr. Minister, and here a piece of advice from me, of course, I have to say that this is a common weakness of all politicians, who have some connection with the defence and with the country's military security to be present more in terms of the needs of the Bulgarian army of armed and fighting equipment, in terms of the need to create those abilities that provide more guarantees for the defence and security of the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian citizens, not to get the impression that this is some kind of quirk of a handful of politicians and generals who want to buy expensive toys in the form of weapons of fighting equipment, or someone thinks, realizing projects only for commissions. God forbid such an impression should be created in Bulgarian citizens. It is therefore nice to have clarity, however, to have a clearly linked programme with financial sources to finance these projects. I hope that the programme, apart from the implementation of the project, will contain the sources of funding, respectively the deadlines in which these projects are to be implemented, because we are weighed by the so-called.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Therefore, we need to keep that in mind, including as a source of funding.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u163	Thank you, dear Mr. Naydenov. Minister Nenchev, please come in for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u164	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Naydenov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Of course, I am very committed to the subject and we are doing everything we can to make the best possible choice. However, before that, I would like to analyse everything that we should then pay for the repairs, pilot training and any additional costs that could arise after the acquisition of such a multifunctional aircraft. There is no doubt that the need is severe and I will do my best in the coming months to still present, as I mentioned, a project in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u165	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question, which is also from the MP Angel Naydenov, is about the intention for changes in the retirement of the soldiers. Here you go, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u166	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A pure coincidence is the fact that they follow one question after another that I have to the Minister of Defence because of the way parliamentary control is arranged, and so often they follow my questions to him. Mr. Minister, the reason to ask the question about the conditions for retirement was the silent consent of your predecessor minister, albeit employed, Velizar Shalamanov, silent consent when discussed in the caretaker government to change the conditions for retirement, in the particular case of the servicemen. And although this agreement was not moved towards parliament for a further decision, it created enough tension and uncertainty in the Bulgarian servicemen and forced dozens, if not hundreds of them to leave again faced with the introduction of an additional condition for retirement. Although this topic is currently not up to date and I very much hope that your government will not make it up to date again, I want to hear your personal position on the constantly discussed topic of the conditions for retirement of the Bulgarian servicemen. Let me hear in your reply your determination not to allow the government to accept a change in the retirement conditions of the Bulgarian servicemen. It should be clear to all experts dealing with the pension system that the Bulgarian servicemen retire under the same conditions under which the other professional and social groups retire the requirement for insurance service and therefore reach a maximum age. What we are talking about and constantly creates this uncertainty and tension in servicemen is the additional requirement for age as a basis for obtaining retirement rights. Hundreds are those servicemen who each year complete the defined insurance service and acquire the right to retire and units, literally on the fingers of one hand, are the people who benefit from this right, that is to say, they do not in any way violate the balance of the NSI, drain funds and so on, which could be the concerns that we are constantly hearing in the debate on this subject. That is why it is so important to know that this is a right that compensates for other rights revoked by the Bulgarian servicemen. Let's say once and for all: the conditions under which the Bulgarian servicemen are employed are such for many years to come, will not be changed on the basis of a situation and insufficiently reasoned opinions, to be secure, to have a predictable military career. That's what I expect from your answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u167	Thank you, dear Mr. Naydenov. Minister Nenchev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u168	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Naydenov, out of any doubt, I will answer you in the clearest and most explicit way possible. I hope that my answer will reach both you and the MPs and the Bulgarian servicemen who have suffered so much all these discussions that we have where objectively, where non-executive. With regard to your question, the Ministry of Defence is actively involved in the Interdepartmental Council on Pension Reform. During this year, the Ministry does not foresee changes in the conditions for retirement of the servicemen. This position of ours is now publicly known. The result of this is that at the end of last year and at the beginning of 2015 reports on the release of military service from the officers and sergeants of the Armed Forces have been sharply reduced. I believe that we will best protect the rights and interests of the servicemen, above all with their participation in a broad dialogue on issues relating to the need to change the conditions for their retirement. In parallel, obviously the changes in the sector must be coordinated with a common policy of the Bulgarian government regarding pension reform. In order to protect the rights and interests of the servicemen, and in view of the fact that the change in their retirement arrangements involves carrying out an in-depth analysis with the Ministerial Order No OH-756 of 17.10.2014, an Advisory Expert Council was appointed to develop a model for the retirement of the servicemen. Representatives from the Ministry of Defence and the Bulgarian Army participate in the Council, both from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the National Insurance Institute. By 24 February 2015, the Council, as an advisory unit to the Minister of Defence, should analyse the proposal of the Advisory Council to optimize the insurance system to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and propose to me an option for changing the retirement order of the Bulgarian servicemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u169	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Naydenov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, if you had reduced the answer to my question to only the first half, I would have been very gluttonous in my line and I would have said that I am satisfied and thank you for your answer. However, with the assumption that a working group is continuing to work, which examines, reviews, thinks on the terms of retirement and that it will offer you a chance to even change the conditions of retirement, we have embarrassed me and the present MPs, and surely you are disturbing all the servicemen who continue to be in active military service and their families. The assumption of change implies that you can again return to the position under the pressure of the specialists from the National Insurance Institute, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the working groups of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, who will return the additional age condition to the requirement for insurance internship to acquire the right of retirement of servicemen. Look, in this House, but with great agreement, despite the vote of MPs who had initially supported this change, the condition was lifted. I very much hope that the plenary, understood as a set of MPs, albeit by various political forces, will not allow a change in the conditions for the retirement of the Bulgarian servicemen. This is the most powerful tool you can rely on and use, contrary to any intentions, suggestions and wishes for a change in the conditions for retirement of the Bulgarian servicemen. The other, believe me, will be, come on, I will not use the expression "dangerously" to the interests of both the servicemen and the security system, and, of course, part of the Ministry, to the extent that it is the office, which should ultimately implement, conduct and present the policy, including with regard to the retirement of the servicemen. Do not accept such suggestions and such suggestions!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u171	Thank you, dear Mr. Naydenov. Minister Nenchev, please come in for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u172	Mr. Naydenov, I have never taken the error of having conversations between the institutions. This is what we do and be sure and confident that we will protect the future and professional development of Bulgarian officers, sergeants and soldiers in the best possible way. Mr. Naydenov, I mentioned that I usually have fear when we start discussing this subject and talking with hypotheses. You say: it bothers me. Neither should you be disturbed by the conversation with the Ministry of Social Policy, nor anyone else, nor any of the Bulgarian servicemen. Once again, I want to assure them and you personally that we are doing and will do our best to make them feel safe on their day and tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u173	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next question asked by the National Representative Ilian Todorov about the amount of contributions made to NATO by the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u174	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! We know Bulgaria has been a NATO member since 29 March 2004. Under the signed treaty, our country is obliged to pay an annual contribution to the Alliance. In this regard, Minister, please answer me what is the total amount of the funds paid by the Republic of Bulgaria to NATO for the entire period of our country's membership in the Pact, respectively for the period 2004 - 2014? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u175	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. Minister Nenchev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u176	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Todorov! NATO budgets, in which the Republic of Bulgaria owes annual contributions, are three: civil budget, military budget and NATO Security Investment Programme. Under NATO funding principles, contributions to the civil budget are paid from the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and contributions to the military budget and the NATO Security Investment Programme are paid from the Ministry of Defence budget. The annual contribution to the military budget of each of the 28 member states is different and is consistent with its size, population and capabilities according to World Bank data. The contributions shall be defined as a percentage for each country allocated to the respective budget of the Alliance. For the period January 2012 - 31 December 2013 the participation in NATO budgets was 0.3% and since 1 January 2014 it has been increased to 0.324%. The total cost of membership imports into NATO's military budget for the period 2004-2014 is 89 million. 063 thousand. 100 BGN and for the expired 2014 the amount of the contributions is 9 million. Three hundred and BGN 167. NATO's security investment programme is used to acquire capabilities beyond the national resources of individual countries and are part of collective defence. Our country's participation, in particular the Ministry of Defence for 2014, amounts to 0.324% of the budget ceiling adopted for the Programme. After an analysis of our participation in the Programme in recent years, it may be that Bulgaria has received funds to implement projects to acquire collective capabilities on the territory of the country of 27 million. 203,000. lv. We have contributed as contributions to other Member States 17 million. 30,000. lv. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u177	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Todorov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u178	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Mr. Minister, I cannot agree with the data you provided us. Here's a NATO printout. [[shows sheet]] which clearly shows that our state spends an average of 20 million on average. lv. a year as contributions to the Alliance. This is official information from NATO. In ten years, the amount swells to 200 million. lv. I'm talking about state spending. When to that 200 million. lv. The country's contribution costs to NATO add 500 million. BGN, which have been spent by our country on the mission in Iraq in recent years, when we add several hundred million more for our participation in the mission in Iraq, it turns out that our participation in NATO's budget has gone out for the last ten years to the amount of more than 1 billion. lv. Bulgarian taxpayers have poured 1 billion. lv. because of the Euro-Atlantic stupidity of Bulgaria to participate in military pacts. When we're talking about $1 billion. BGN, here we must remind that not only has this lost Bulgaria, but both the weapons and the defense capabilities that we lost to be NATO members. I'll remind you of a few things very quickly. Under US pressure, our country was forced to destroy more than 500 portable zenith complexes. Under the pressure of Turkey and the United States, today called by you our partners, the Bulgarian governments bowed down before NATO destroyed our missiles and the SCC-23, which supported the war balance in the Balkans. Of course, under NATO's conductor baton Bulgaria destroyed a number of tactical ballistic missiles, such as Luna-M. And today, thanks to NATO, we have no armed forces capable of fulfilling their obligations under the Constitution for the Protection of Security and Territorial integrity of the Republic of Bulgaria. Since June 2015, Mr. Minister you know this perfectly, the Bulgarian Air Force remains with zero multi-target fighters. Bulgaria is up for the first time in its history to remain without the Air Force and the Turkish state or other countries to protect our airspace.. Absurdity, absurdity, which simply should not be commented! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] With this golden billion that we gave to our so-called NATO partners, our country could very calmly buy 10 brand new front bombers SW-24 plus 15 brand-new multi-purpose SW-35 fighters. Today we would not be faced with the threat of being left without an air force. Let's not forget that at the moment land troops don't have shells to shoot tanks with! Navy, frigates don't have missiles to fire. They are fishing boats and can be made like floating restaurants, unfortunately! [[(Comments from GERB: "The time, the time! ") The President gives a signal that the time has expired.)]] Apart from me, I don't understand anything very important. According to NATO, Bulgaria's contribution, as a common share of NATO's budget, is higher than that of the richest country in the European Union, Luxembourg! Imagine! You said exactly this: Bulgaria pays 0.32% and Luxembourg pays 0.15%. The minimum salary in Luxembourg is 1800 euros, in Bulgaria we all know how much it is! And Luxembourg pays half of what Bulgaria pays the poorest country in the European Union! Not to mention Croatia, which also pays less than us, Estonia, Iceland, Lithuania, Latvia, Slovenia! This is ridiculous! Mr. Minister, I do, and it's clear that we don't have any armed forces right now. [[(Comments from GERB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u179	The weather, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u180	For this we can thank our friends from the United States and NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u181	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. Would you like to take advantage of your right to dodge, Mr. Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u182	Dear Mr. Todorov, I don't know what billions you're talking about here. I would like to inform you once again, as I am responsible for the Department of Defense. I would like to assure you that the costs from 2004 to 2014 amount to 89 million. 063 thousand. 100 BGN, as for the expired 2014 the amount of the contributions paid for Bulgaria, for the Bulgarian Ministry of Defence is 9 million. Three hundred and BGN 167.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u183	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the National Representative Velizar Enchev on the financial problems in the re-arming of the Bulgarian Army and the need to donate a combat squadron to the air force by our NATO partners. Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u184	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, given the need to maintain a combatable army capable of defending the territorial integrity of the country, and the fact that in the last 25 years the combat capabilities of the Bulgarian Army have not been funded enough and rely mostly on technology from the time of the Warsaw Treaty, would you answer the following more current questions: what steps have you taken or intend to take to receive as a donation a battle squadron from used fighters from the United States of America? I am provoked to ask this question because Prime Minister Boyko Borisov himself said two months ago that this opportunity is being discussed, but you are not saying a word, perhaps because you are asking to make a purchase from which commissions are received. I'm not suggesting anything, of course. Are there negotiations on this matter with the American side, and if they haven't started yet, when are you planning to start such negotiations, Mr. Minister? Don't you think that in an economic and social crisis, it is unwise to even talk about buying 1 billion-dollar battle planes, which you did at the end of last year. In an interview with Bulgarian National Radio, December you said you approve of a project to purchase new fighters. Here I see a difference between you and Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. On this occasion, I remind you, Minister, that at the end of last year, the armed forces of Greece received as a donation from the United States 460 caterpillar armorers from the M113 series from the warehouses of the US land forces. In view of what has been exported here, Minister, and considering the fact that Bulgaria and Greece are equal members of NATO, or so it seems, I would like to ask you this question: why does the Greek army receive such large donations from the United States, and the Bulgarian is ignored by its American allies? What can be done, Mr. Minister, on the basis of our bilateral agreement with the United States in the field of defence, to take advantage of the so-called military surplus program? And why so far, Minister, is the poorest country in the European Union ignored by all NATO partners in providing their military surpluses? Finally, I will hardly say anything new that the questions raised are painfully relevant, since after 1989 the Bulgarian army is almost disarmed with your participation on the right hand side, and its political and personnel potential is at the levels after the end of the First World War and the subsequent New York treaty treating us as a defeated state? Aren't you ashamed to be the Minister of Defense of such a country? I ask you very much to answer these questions: why do you insist on buying new fighter fighters for the large amount of 1 billion, and the Prime Minister wants us to receive a donation, for good reason, a military squadron? And are these experts really right who think there are no commissions from donations? [[Replications by National Representative Valentin Radev]] But since the purchase of new fighter fighters military equipment, the commissions are huge. Please, when you react, follow the Rules of the National Assembly, you on the right hand side.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u185	And you keep the time, Mr. Enchev. Here you are, Minister, to answer some of the questions you can answer, as questions have been asked here that you cannot answer on behalf of another country.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u186	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, I share your concerns about the state of the Bulgarian Army and the need for re-arming. I would like to point out that the delay in this regard is not only due to a lack of funding opportunities for modernisation processes. Evidence of this is the period after 2004, when significant budget funds have been spent, Mr. Enchev "over 1.8 billion," without, however, having much effect to reflect on the acquisition of new abilities? Obviously, we need to look for the problem within ourselves and in the absence of a comprehensive design approach in the process of the so-called defence aid, i.e. consistency and design approach in the acquisition, operation, maintenance and extraction of the relevant types of armed systems. It is this approach that is laid down in the national defence policy plan by 2020, which we are about to submit to the government and, accordingly, to the Bulgarian Parliament. Part of this plan are the 9 projects related to the acquisition of a new battle plane on 3D radars, new ships, new war machine, infantry and other armed systems. As far as your specific questions are concerned, I can assure you that we are working intensively with our NATO partners and, in particular, with the United States towards the acquisition of multi-purpose fighter planes, including the mechanism known as free stunts. It's too early right now to say if this opportunity is realistic. However, I would like to point out that whether we are going to receive combat planes by means of a donation or by purchasing this does not cancel our commitments and efforts that we need to make to establish and maintain this new weaponry. I will not agree with the rhetorical question you have asked: Why is the poorest country in the European Union ignored by its partners in NATO when providing their military surpluses?............................. These countries have, or not, individual NATO members. And it's about intergovernmental agreements where that's possible. I would not agree with your analogy about the state of the Bulgarian Army with that after the Neucoupe Treaty. 1919, when international legal acts on the Bulgarian Army imposed severe restrictions both in terms of numbers and in terms of arms. To date, it is the exact opposite of our partners in the Alliance insist that each member state achieves a certain growth in defence spending and accordingly conducts a defensive policy adequate to the risks that the security funds dictate. In conclusion, I would say that the Ministry of Defence relies very much on the support of the people's representation for the upcoming modernisation and implementation of the Bulgarian army's re-arming. Moreover, not only in terms of financing this process, but also in terms of the new approach that we offer with basic documents that we will present to you as soon as possible. And one more thing, Mr. Enchev, I have already had the opportunity to mention that we are doing a comprehensive analysis and perhaps such acquisition opportunities as donations there are, but I wish, first of all, to check how much maintenance will cost us afterwards, how much the pilot training and everything else that is related to this topic. So in this regard, I will be absolutely consistent in every respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u187	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you go, Mr. Enchev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u188	Mr. Minister, I can't disagree with you that even a second-hand donation, in some ways here you're right, can come out quite, quite expensive and salty. Here, however, the question is the comparison I make with the Greek and Bulgarian example. How is it possible, I repeat once again, 400 fighting machines, some of them unused, from the reserves of the US Army were given to the Atlantic partner of the United States of Greece, and Bulgaria has, as far as I know, received several fighting machines, and received them to be used by our contingent in Afghanistan, not to protect the territorial integrity and borders of the country?! And to help you, since you are obviously new in this area, you still come from another, not from defence and special services, I will offer you the Hungarian example. I do not, of course, lobby for the project "Gripen" on the contrary, even I think that MiG-29 are much better planes than those you are currently about to buy. The Hungarian example, which concluded a contract with the Swedish airline for the purchase of aircraft, led to a sharp increase in employment in Hungary on this issue, as the offset suggests the development of some industries in the light industry. In addition to receiving new fighter fighters, as I said, this led to the development of other industries in the light industry, to a reduction in unemployment. In this way, the defence and the armed forces become part of public life and the increase in social welfare, not to represent a black bank where taxpayers' money sink. It seems to me that the Hungarian example of buying new offset fighters and the Greek example of receiving a donation, and often a new technique, it is about land troops, are particularly important and valuable. I hope you will support this idea. I also take the opportunity to tell you that, instead of receiving, like the Greeks, war machines in the coming days, as I understand from the statement of General Hodges, a commander of the United States Land Forces on the European continent, yesterday's statement, it seems that we will receive as a donation, only that American fighting equipment, American tanks on Bulgarian territory, which is extremely worrying, as it makes us an active participant in the Ukrainian crisis.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u189	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. A hole, if you like? Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u190	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, I only take to tell you two things. Of course, I will take into account your recommendations in the first place. Secondly, you expressed some suspicion that the Minister of Defence does not come from the special services, does not come from the Bulgarian Army. Mr. Enchev, this type of relationship in Europe is resolved differently. I'm sorry, you seem to be living in another time. This type of relationship "security services" and everything else are related to another period that has passed. They are more characteristic of the former Soviet Union and, to some extent, Russia today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u191	That concludes the answer to that question. The next question is from the National Representative Mr. Volen Siderov concerning the call of citizens in the respective regional military units. To prepare the people's representative Kalina Balabanova. Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, my question is triggered by information that we have at the party headquarters of........................ and by people who claim to show documents that call them, the so-called callers.... in the respective military district.................. I do not know what they are now called, and tell them to be ready to be called at certain places and at a certain time. This is all going pretty intense right now. Our information comes from different cities of the country. That means there's some kind of campaign going on. In addition, we learned that an odysiac figure revolves around and in parliament.. his name is Nayo Titsin, and he had received an invitation. I'll leave it to my colleague Balabanov, because she's asking a question about the transvestites in the army, and I'm going to jump over it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u193	Please, Mr. Siderov, spare the management not to make any remarks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u194	That's a serious question. For the presence of transvestites in the army will ask Balabanov. My question is: for what purpose and for what reason is this call for Bulgarian citizens currently being made, I call it mobilization on what scale and on whose authority? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u195	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u196	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Siderov, there is no reason for any concern. According to the Law on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ordinance on the Military Report of Bulgarian Citizens and Equipment for Peace and Military Time, adopted by Ministerial Decree No 167 of 2012, all Bulgarian citizens who went through military training, released from military service, officers, officers candidates, sergeants, soldiers, as well as citizens who retired a military service and completed initial military training. They are involved in the assembly of wartime formations by the armed forces according to a timetable drawn up on the basis of a Decision on the designation of military formations and structures to complement the armed forces in military time and to determine the number of reserves for the armed forces adopted by the Forty-second National Assembly. Bulgarian citizens who have the necessary military training for the assembly of wartime formations on the territory of the country receive summoning orders under the terms and conditions of the Ordinance on the conditions and arrangements for the conduct of mobilization. Due to disease, leaving the country for a long period of time, babysitting up to 3 years, reaching a limit age for stock service, changing their current address and so on some of these citizens have to be replaced by other stockholders who meet the conditions. This is a day-to-day activity that is organised and implemented in peace time in accordance with the abovementioned regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u197	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Siderov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u198	When I hear the phrase, there is no reason to worry, I always think of the captain of the Titanic who pronounced it shortly before the ship went down. As far as our information is serious, because we are a party with structures throughout the country, such an adjustment has not happened in recent years. There is an intensity that makes us worry, Mr. Minister. Moreover, by linking this call now, this mobilization of troops from the reserve with the visit of the NATO Secretary General, with the opening of it, as you yourself said, the Command or Coordination Centre in Bulgaria. What will coordinate this center besides combat?! With the fact that currently in another country, which is also with a puppet government of the United States, Ukraine, and there is a mobilization. Our compatriots in Odessa region are exhibiting a very serious public activity. There are mass protests because they are mobilizing them to carry out the orders of the junta in Kiev to go kill people. You know there's a civil war going on there right now. The issue is very serious and I really advise you to treat it with responsibility, because Bulgarian soldiers in Ukraine, which I predict will happen I know that you will not agree and will deny, but it will happen, this is required of us, I have informal information, will lead to such twists in Bulgaria, that then the events in Greece and the victory of SYRIZA there will be seen as a lighter story. Therefore, I advise you to say everything that is going on between you and your NATO chiefs, from the Pentagon, who come here to lower instructions. There is no way you will not agree to a Kerry coming here, a British Foreign Minister and NATO Secretary-General come within a week, this has not happened. I mean, they're coming because important events are coming. At the same time, you mobilize Bulgarian citizens. At the same time, a Command Center is being opened. At the same time, sanctions against Russia are increasing. At the same time, Bulgarians, all Ukrainian citizens, are mobilizing in Ukraine to escalate the war. So Bulgaria will participate in an escalation of war against Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u199	Thank you for the line. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u200	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Siderov, no mobilization in any form is carried out in the first place. Secondly, none of our NATO partners have asked us to do this: neither mobilize nor participate in any other systems, as you have mentioned here. These command centers are related only to training and maintaining security in the region, nothing more than that. No such request has been made to me in any form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u201	Thank you. Mr. Minister, we are continuing with a question from the MP Kalina Balabanova about the possible participation of Bulgarian officers from NATO in a forum in Washington. The issue is admitted in the appropriate order, not contrary to the rules we have created and adopted. Here you are to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! I need to get to the point of Mr. Nyo Titzin. A forum of NATO transvestites officers in Washington was recently held in the media. We are talking about an annual meeting of transvestite officers from 18, notice, countries, most NATO members. At the forum it has become clear that the transsexual military in the United States is about 15 thousand. I am shocked, understanding that there are 15 thousand transvestites in the US Army, while the bayonets in the Land Forces in Bulgaria are 13 860 or 1140 less. The International Conference has been called: the perspectives of the transsexual military and the goal...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... My question is: were Bulgarian Army troops involved in the forum in question? More importantly: what is your assessment and commentary on the forum? These are issues that interest both media representatives and voters who consider the possible participation of Bulgarian military in the forum for smearing the name and honor of the Bulgarian Army. In this regard, I have also been provoked by your parliamentary secretary, representative of the Reformation Block, Mr. Plamen Darakchiev, to put you in an explanation mode. The gentleman who is said to have spent more time on Facebook than in the Ministry of Defense has released a status that my question to you cost the state the annual pension of at least two pensioners. Since I have doubts that defamation is deliberately released, please also answer the following question: for what exactly did the Ministry of Defence spend the annual pension of two pensioners to find out whether it itself has posted representatives of the Bulgarian Army? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Balabanov. You settled in exactly two minutes. For your answer, come in, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u204	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Balabanov, it is even somewhat offensive for me to answer that question. I will be very specific and clear: in the conference you mentioned, there were no Bulgarian servicemen involved in actual service or reserves. I'm saying this with all my responsibility. And to make it even clearer, I would like to assure you that the Bulgarian army has strict rules. Some of them are strict compliance with art. 174 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the statutes in the Bulgarian Army, as regards the order and wearing of uniforms and distinguishing marks, so there is no reason for concern in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u205	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a replica, the People's Representative Kalina Balabanova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u206	Minister, this issue is very important because it shows the position of the Ministry of Defence on Euro-Atlantic values. You did not answer the question: what is your assessment of such forums? What is Euro-Atlantism? It turns out they're transvestite officers, maybe necrophiliacs, nasty, homosexual. Understand that the value system of the Bulgarian is not such. Do not agree to humiliate and demobilize the Bulgarian Army, although we are a member of NATO. The Bulgarian army has and all Bulgarians have Christian values. In addition, I really want to get a detailed reference on the amounts spent in response to the question I have asked. If I must also request an official letter, as Mr. Darakchiev's status speaks of an intelligence service: what is this intelligence service that you used? Even if you used a partner service, do you have to give money for it? Here, the BNT cameras are working. Answer the Bulgarian citizens whether you pay our partners for information. And is such an intelligence service even necessary if you have posted a representative to a very formal forum? If such a reference is not given to me or the amounts differ, be assured that I will file a defamation suit against your parliamentary secretary and send an alert to the relevant institutions to investigate exactly where the annual pension of two pensioners has gone and whether your parliamentary secretary has taken it in, as is, by the way, said in the couloirs. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Balabanov. Would you like to make a duplicate, Mr. Minister? There was a pointing question, I'd say.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u208	Mrs. Balabanov, you expect me to comment on the participation of foreign servicemen in a conference that apparently took place. I refuse to do that. That's none of my business. I am responsible only for the Bulgarian servicemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u209	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the last one scheduled on today's agenda, a question for the Minister of Defense. He is from the National Representative Ilian Todorov concerning the sending of personnel from the Office of Military Information and of an overseas mandate whose names are subject to a notice within the meaning of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian Army. Here you go, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u210	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Dear Minister, in December 2012, the National Assembly repealed § 12 of the Records Act, according to which the personnel of the two intelligence services were not announced, which took the leading positions of the Head of Sector or Head of Department up. In this regard, the Ministry of Defence's leadership in 2013 announced that a plan was developed in the Military Information Office to prevent possible negative consequences. The then Minister of Defence Mr. Anyu Angelov announced to various media that in his execution in due time the potentially threatened officers of the Service of Military Information. Despite these measures, is there a post-2013 dispatch of an undercover operative that is subject to notification within the meaning of the Law? Is there a risk of illumination of the relevant disguises in case the names of officers sent after 2013 are disclosed in the future, or can we believe that an agreement with the counterintelligence services has been reached that persons will not undertake intelligence activities in host countries? Is it possible that the permission for their cross-border business trip rests on a prerequisite that these employees will not pose a threat to the host country due to the poor results so far in their professional career as scouts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u211	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u212	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Todorov, it should be noted, in principle, that in the cases described by you, an analysis and assessment of the possible consequences of the enlightenment of the officer concerned has always been carried out. In this regard, I would point out that any provision of specific information from the current public tribune would create a serious risk to the security of intelligence officers abroad. Taking this into account, I inform you on the questions put forward as follows: under point 1 (a), the publication of data on staff of the Office of Military Information, engaged in or engaged in reconnaissance activities in carrying out tasks abroad after 2013, would directly affect their respective disguises. Moreover, as a consequence will be compromised the well used overseas disguises of officers who acted abroad before and after the adoption of the Law on Access to Information and Disclosure of the documents of the former security services and the declaration of belonging, of course, of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. On the second part of your first question: there have been no talks under any circumstances about commitments made by foreign counter-intelligence services to the intelligence activities of the Office's authorities. On your second question: emphatically no! Service "Military information" is a cross-border staff with a high sense of duty to the country, dedicated to its protection from external offenses and recognized as a personal cause the service in the interests of our national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u213	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Todorov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u214	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Let us not forget that the Deputy Chief of the Service has been revoked. I don't know if he's been restored. So when we talk about high professionalism and the work of such people in the Military Information Service, given that they are not entitled to work with classified information, it is quite disturbing for me, and for us from the Ataka as a whole, of course. I hope that for the most part of your answer you will be sincere, because otherwise, if the doubts that we have from "Attack" prove true, this means an exceptional breakthrough for us as a state and the whole sphere of our national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u215	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. Mr. Secretary? You're giving up the right to the dot. My fellow Members, due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am closing today's plenary session.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-30.u216	The next meeting of the National Assembly is on Wednesday, 4 February 2015, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
